Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4610-UA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Lviv Water and Wastewater Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
LVIV CITY 
 
and 
 
LVIV CITY COMMUNAL ENTERPRISE “LVIVVODOKANAL” 
 
Dated August 27, 2002 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4610-UA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 2002 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LVIV CITY (Lviv) 
and LVIV CITY COMMUNAL ENTERPRISE “LVIVVODOKANAL” (LVK). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Ukraine 
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount of 
twenty-four million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($24,250,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Lviv and LVK 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;  
 
(B)  by the Subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between MOF and 
LVK, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be lent to 
LVK on terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Lviv and LVK in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. 
Lviv and LVK each declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall ensure 
the carrying out of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 2.02. 
LVK shall: (a) maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under terms of reference and with staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank; and (b) assign to the PIU the responsibility of 
managing and monitoring Project Implementation.  
 
Section 2.03. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) LVK shall, not later than December 31, 2001, establish a 
separate account (LVK Project Account), and shall replenish the Project Account on a 
quarterly basis so as to ensure that amounts in deposit therein at each such replenishment 
shall be sufficient to cover expenditures expected to be incurred under the Project during 
the following quarter and to be met from LVK’s resources. 
 
(b) 
LVIV shall: (i) establish by December 31, 2001, a separate account 
(LVIV Project Account) and deposit therein, on a quarterly basis, for every year, until 
Project completion, the equivalent of all duties and taxes paid by LVK to the city budget; 
and (ii) use the amount in deposit in the LVIV Project Account solely to meet shortfalls 
in Project financing. 
 
Section 2.05. 
LVK shall in conjunction with Lviv: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable Lviv and LVK to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
annually prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank on or about September 30 of each year during Project 
implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 30 of each year during Project 
Implementation, such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.06. 
(a) LVK shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, LVK shall, in conjunction with Lviv: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank no later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for the purpose between 
the Bank and Lviv and LVK, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Lviv and LVK on said plan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
(a) Lviv and LVK shall each, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of their obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Lviv and LVK shall each promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Lviv and LVK and 
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 2.08. 
Within six (6) months from the date of signing the contract with 
the MOIA, referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of the Loan Agreement, LVK shall prepare, in 
conjunction with Lviv, and furnish to the Bank, for review and concurrence, a plan of 
action for institutional strengthening of LVK, and shall thereafter carry out said plan, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
 
Section 2.09. 
Lviv and LVK shall take all necessary measures to implement 
the Environmental Mitigation Plan. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 
3.01.  (a) LVK shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
Page  6
-
4
-
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) LVK 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts, including the Special Account, and 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and flow of fund statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
by the Director of LVK copies of its financial statements for 
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, LVK shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable LVK,  
not later than July 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and      
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, LVK shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period. 
 
Section 3.03. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, LVK shall take all 
appropriate action to ensure 
that, for each of LVK’s fiscal years, following LVK’s fiscal 
year ending on December 31, 2001, LVK’s projected operating revenues are sufficient to 
meet the LVK’s projected expenses for that fiscal year. 
 
(b) 
By or before October 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
LVK shall on the basis of forecasts prepared by LVK and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether LVK would be able to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect 
of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of 
such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that LVK would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for LVK’s fiscal years covered by such review, LVK and Lviv 
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or level of tariff rates) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “projected operating revenues” means the sum of 
revenues from all sources related to operations, consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of construction less 
allowance for uncollectable revenues. 
 
(ii) 
The term “projected expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, energy, wages, adequate 
provision for maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, interest payable on all debt related to LVK’s operations, 
debt services requirements in excess of provision for 
depreciation, all cash dividends and other cash distributions of 
surplus, increase in working capital other than cash, and other 
cash outflows other than capital expenditures. 
 
(iii) 
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between current assets, excluding cash, and current liabilities. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(iv) The 
t
erm “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the 
next fiscal year. 
 
(v) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirement 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
 
(vi) 
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations. 
 
(vii) 
The term “operating ratio” means the ratio of operating expenses 
to operating revenues. 
 
(viii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.04. 
(a) LVK shall take all necessary measures to ensure timely 
collection of water and wastewater charges, including the application of accordant 
sanctions according to current legislation against delinquent customers. 
 
(b) 
Lviv shall take appropriate and possible measures to ensure that water 
and wastewater charges payable by central and local government bodies and their units 
shall be paid, when overdue by more than thirty (30) days. 
 
(c) 
LVK shall take all necessary measures to ensure that, starting with the 
year 2002, its operating ratio and the collection rate of water and wastewater charges for 
each succeeding year shall not be less than the levels for the respective years agreed 
under the Performance Agreement. 
 
For the purposes of this Section, the term “operating ratio” means the ratio of 
operating expenses to operating revenues as defined in Section 3.03 (vii) of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 3.05. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Lviv shall subserve 
and LVK shall accommodate that it does not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast 
of LVK’s revenues and expenditures shows that the estimated net cash revenues of LVK 
for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times 
the estimated debt service requirements of LVK in such year on all debt of LVK 
including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of LVK maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
Lviv not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the 
debt in question, which both the Bank and LVK accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified LVK of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of LVK. 
 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.06. 
Without limitation to any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, Lviv shall take all actions required on its part to ensure compliance of LVK 
with its financial obligations under Article III of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank, Lviv and 
LVK thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate; or  
 
(ii) 
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
If the Loan Agreement terminates as specified in (a) (i) of this Section, 
the Bank shall promptly notify Lviv and LVK of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under the Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development  
1818 H Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Lviv: 
 
1
Rynok Sq 
 LVIV 
79008 
 Ukraine 
 
For LVK: 
 
64 Zelena Str. 
 
LVIV 79017 
 
Ukraine 
 
Section 5.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Lviv, may be 
taken or executed by the Mayor, or by such other person or persons as the Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and Lviv shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required permitted to be executed on behalf of LVK under this Agreement, or by LVK on 
Page  12
-
10
-
behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
Director or such other person or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and 
LVK shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.04. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Annette Dixon 
Authorized Representative 
 
LVIV CITY 
 
By  /s/  Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
LVIV CITY COMMUNAL  
 
ENTERPRISE “LVIVODOKANAL” 
 
By  /s/  Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section 1
:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and following provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of Guidelines. 
 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum 
Page  14
-
12
-
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Parts B and Part C. 1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Parts C. 2,  C. 3, and C. 4 of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, LVK shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, LVK shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Page  15
-
13
-
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
The contract for the Management and Operations Improvement Advisor and for 
the engineering and supervision consultants, referred to in Part D and Part E of the 
Project, shall be procured under a contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training of Vodokanal staff and the local government staff, under 
Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services under Part E of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1
.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting services 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2
and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance, engineering design and training estimated to cost the equivalent of 
Page  16
-
14
-
$100,000 more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Procedures and Selection Criteria Applicable  
to Additional Investments 
 
1. 
Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, no Additional Investment or Expenditure shall 
be eligible for financing  out of the proceeds of this Loan, unless the Additional 
Investment  or Expenditure satisfies the criteria and procedures specified below: 
 
(a) 
The proposed Additional Investment or Expenditure shall have been 
prepared and agreed to by LVK and the MOIA, and submitted to Lviv for review and 
approval in  form,  substance and detail satisfactory to Lviv and the Bank, including: (i) a 
description of the proposed Additional Investment or Expenditure; (ii) estimate of 
projected costs and expenses; (iii) economic and financial analysis of the proposed 
Additional Investment or justification for the proposed Expenditure; (iv) environmental 
impact  assessment  of  proposed  Additional  Investment;  (v)  implementation  plan;          
(vi) procurement schedule; and (vii) an analysis of the priority of the proposed Additional 
Investment or Expenditure in terms of its cost-effectiveness and social impact. 
 
(b) 
The review for the proposed Additional Investment or Expenditure shall 
have confirmed that such Additional Investment or Expenditure: (i) does not risk to have 
any  potential negative impact on other riparian countries; (ii) does not affect any private 
land, unless procedures for compensation and replacement have been reviewed and found 
satisfactory by the Bank; (iii) does not drain or reclaim any significant area of natural 
wetland which has or is likely to have a significant impact on an important area of 
wildlife habitat or major fishery; (iv) addresses the risk of encountering unknown 
archaeological or historical sites by adopting and following appropriate procedures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, addressing such a risk; and (v) is in conformity with all local and 
national environmental standards and requirements, and its design and implementation 
shall provide for adequate mitigation measures to ensure full compliance with local and 
national health, environmental and safety standards and requirements. 
 
(c) 
After review and approval by Lviv, the proposal for such Additional 
Investment or Expenditure shall have been reviewed  and approved by the Borrower and 
the Bank. 
 
2. 
Upon approval by the Bank, as specified in 1 (c) above, the Additional 
Investment or Expenditure shall be deemed to be eligible for financing under Part C of 
the Project.
 
