Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4610-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Lviv Water and Wastewater Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Dated August 27, 2002 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4610-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 2002, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
The Project will be carried out by Lviv City Communal Enterprise, 
“Lvivvodokanal” (LVK), a municipal water supply and wastewater services enterprise, 
with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to LVK the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
 
 
The Borrower intends to obtain from the Swedish Agency for 
International Development (SIDA), a grant (the SIDA Grant) in an amount of at least 
$6,000,000 equivalent to assist in financing the Project under an agreement (the SIDA 
Grant Agreement) to be concluded between the Government of Sweden, the Government 
of Ukraine, Lviv City Council, and LVK; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
 
alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Lviv City and LVK; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as modified 
through October 6, 1999, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Additional Investment or Expenditure” means an investment for water 
supply or wastewater treatment, or an expenditure for institutional strengthening 
activities including improvement of LVK's financial and commercial management 
Page  4
-
2
-
systems, training, and carrying out of public information and opinion survey activities, 
and to be selected for financing from the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the environmental mitigation 
plan prepared and adopted by LVK and Lviv on November 24, 2000, detailing the 
measures proposed to address the adverse environmental impact of investments under the 
Project; 
 
(c) 
“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the MOF (as hereinafter defined) and Lviv (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Lviv” means Lviv City Council, which represents the accordant 
territorial community and acts as the local government on behalf of the territorial 
community; 
 
(e) 
“Lviv Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.04 (b) 
of the Project Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“LVK” means Lviv City Communal Enterprise for Water Supply and 
Wastewater; 
 
(g) 
“LVK Charter” means the Statute and constituent documents of LVK as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“LVK Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.04 (a) 
of the Project Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;  
 
(j) 
“MOIA” means the management and operations improvement advisor, to 
be appointed by LVK, pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Operating Fund” means the fund to be established and maintained by 
LVK for the purpose of carrying out Part  C of the Project; 
 
(l) 
“Performance Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between Lviv and LVK pursuant to  Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement which sets forth 
the  mutual rights and obligations of the Lviv and LVK for the duration of the Project; 
 
(m) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established and 
maintained by LVK consistent with the provision of Section 2.02 of the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(o) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Lviv 
and LVK of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(q) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the MOF and LVK pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-four 
million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($24,250,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of the Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period,” 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest 
Payment 
Date” 
means 
any 
date 
specified 
in         
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date, occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR 
Total 
Spread” 
means, 
for 
each 
Interest 
Period:            
(A) three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR
 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
assist Lviv and LVK to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower through MOF shall relend 
the proceeds of the Loan to LVK under an agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), 
to be entered into between the MOF and LVK under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank including provisions whereby: 
 
(i) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by 
LVK to the MOF in Dollars in semi-annual installments over 
twenty years, including a grace period of five years; 
 
(ii) 
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the 
Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and  
 
(iii) 
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a
rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from time to 
time in respect of the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of this 
Agreement plus up to one percent (1%). 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
(d) 
For the purpose of the Project, the Borrower through MOF, shall enter 
into a Guarantee Agreement with Lviv providing that Lviv will promptly and fully fulfill 
all obligations of the LVK to MOF in case of failure by LVK to fulfill its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
The Borrower shall: (a)  ensure that each Additional Investment 
or Expenditure is selected in accordance with the procedures and selection criteria set 
Page  8
-
6
-
forth in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement; and (b) take all necessary administrative 
and regulatory measures to facilitate the implementation of the Environmental Mitigation 
Plan. 
 
Section 3.03. 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by LVK pursuant to 
Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall cause LVK to maintain a financial 
management system including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements all 
in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures relating to the Project. 
 
(b) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(c) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the, records and accounts referred to in paragraph (b) (i) 
of this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal control involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are  specified: 
 
(a) 
Lviv and LVK shall have failed to perform any of the obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Lviv and LVK  will be able to perform their obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Guarantee Agreement or the Performance Contract shall have been 
modified so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability 
of  Lviv or LVK, as the case may be, to carry out their respective responsibilities under 
the Project. 
 
(d) 
(i)  
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the SIDA Grant shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the SIDA Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
Section. 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events  are specified: 
 
(a) 
The events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of  60 days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
 
(c) 
The event specified in paragraph (d) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between MOF and LVK has been 
executed by their authorized representatives; 
 
(b) 
the Guarantee Agreement between MOF and Lviv has been executed by 
their authorized representatives; 
 
(c) 
the Performance Agreement between Lviv and LVK has been executed 
by their authorized representatives; 
 
(d) 
the SIDA Grant Agreement has been concluded and all conditions for the 
effectiveness of the SIDA Grant Agreement, other than conditions related to the 
effectiveness of this Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
 
(e) 
LVK has, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank selected 
the MOIA, referred to in Part D of the Project, to provide management and operations 
improvement advisory services to LVK under the Project, and concluded a contract 
therefor, under the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Lviv 
and the LVK, an is legally binding upon Lviv and the LVK in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by and is legally binding upon the MOF and the LVK in accordance with its terms; 
Page  11
-
9
-
(c) 
that the Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified  and is 
legally binding upon MOF and Lviv in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(d) 
that the Performance Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified  and 
is legally binding upon Lviv and LVK in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
12/2 Hrushevsky Street  
 
Kiev, 01008  
 Ukraine 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 293-6256 
 
(380-44) 219-3477 
 
For the Bank:  
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development  
 
1818 H. Street, N.W.  
 
Washington, D.C. 20433  
 
United States of America  
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI)    
(1-202) 477-6391 
or Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UKRAINE  
 
By  /s/  Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK  
 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
By   /s/  Annette Dixon 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)       Works 
2,020,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 
 
80% of local  
 expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods: 
 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures,  
 
100% of local  
 
expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for  
 
other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(a) Excluding 
Part 
C 
12,320,000 
 
(b) 
For Part C of the Project 
5,980,000 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
 
100% 
 
(including training): 
 
(a)  Excluding Part C 
2,487,500 
 
(b)   For Part C of the Project 
300,000 
 
(4) 
Fee 
242,500 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
900,000
TOTAL 24,250,000
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect to:  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
Categories 2 (b) and 3 (b), unless the Additional Investment or 
Expenditure has been selected and approved in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement. 
 
4.  
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 
equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) 
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the operation and management of the 
water supply and wastewater systems in the city of Lviv. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Water Supply
Improvement of Lviv’s water supply system through: (a) rehabilitation and/or 
replacement  of  pumping  and  electrical  equipment  at  selected  pumping  stations;             
(b) supply and installation of valves, pressure reducers and pipes to create pressure zones; 
(c)  replacement  and/or  rehabilitation  of  transmission  and  distribution  pipes;  and             
(d) supply of repair and construction equipment. 
 
Part B
:
Wastewater Treatment
Improvement of Lviv’s wastewater system through: (a) replacement of inlet 
pumps at wastewater treatment plant No. 2; (b) rehabilitation of the aeration systems at 
wastewater treatment plant Nos. 1 and 2; (c) rehabilitation of sedimentation tanks at 
wastewater treatment plant No. 2; and (d) supply and installation of sludge dewatering 
equipment. 
 
Part C
:
Operating Fund
Carrying out of Additional Investments for water supply or wastewater treatment, 
and Expenditures for improvement of LVK’s commercial and financial  management 
systems, training and public information and opinion survey activities. 
 
Part D
:
Institutional Strengthening
Provision to LVK, under a contract with a MOIA, of management and operations 
improvement advisory services to: (a) strengthen LVK’s management, through the 
introduction of computerized management, control, financial and commercial systems, 
procurement assistance and training of LVK’s staff in the operation of the new systems; 
and (b) design and implement measures and programs to: (i) increase network and plant 
efficiency; 
(ii) 
reduce 
leakage; 
(iii) 
improve 
water 
demand 
management; 
and                 
(iv) improve quality of services provided to consumers. 
 
Part E
:
Engineering and Construction Supervision
1. 
Provision of engineering services through a construction supervision engineer 
(CSE) to assist in the supervision of construction under Part A of the Project. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
2. 
Provision of engineering services to assist in the identification, design, 
procurement and supervision of construction  of Additional Investments.   
 
Part F
:
Auditors’ Services
Provision of auditors' services for  carrying out audits of LVK's project and 
enterprise accounts and financial statements. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
October 15, 2006 
510,000 
April 15, 2007 
525,000 
October 15, 2007 
540,000 
April 15, 2008 
555,000 
October 15, 2008 
575,000 
April 15, 2009 
590,000 
October 15, 2009 
610,000 
April 15, 2010 
625,000 
October 15, 2010 
645,000 
April 15, 2011 
665,000 
October 15, 2011 
685,000 
April 15, 2012 
705,000 
October 15, 2012 
725,000 
April 15, 2013 
750,000 
October 15, 2013 
770,000 
April 15, 2014 
795,000 
October 15, 2014 
820,000 
April 15, 2015 
840,000 
October 15, 2015 
870,000 
April 15, 2016 
895,000 
October 15, 2016 
920,000 
April 15, 2017 
950,000 
October 15, 2017 
975,000 
April 15, 2018 
1,005,000 
October 15, 2018 
1,035,000 
April 15, 2019 
1,065,000 
October 15, 2019 
1,100,000 
April 15, 2020 
1,130,000 
October 15, 2020 
1,165,000 
April 15, 2021 
1,210,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to the eligible Category plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed to the equivalent of $4,000,000. 
 
2.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3.  
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank  requests for deposits into the respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account a deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as should 
Page  19
-
17 - 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as should have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: 
 
(i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
 
(ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
(A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or 
 
(B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
19
-
