Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1291-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT OF THE INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
December 28, 1976
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                             Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                      Cr$ 8.50 1/
Cr$ 1                        =            US$0.1176
Cr$ 1 million                             US$117,647
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                               3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                          0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         2                  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )    =             100 ha = 247.1 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)           =            1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)                           2.2 pounds
1 ton                                     2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ Exchange rate changes (selling):
1975                 1976
Oct.   Dec.         Jan.    Apr.
US$1            8.52   9.07         9.24   10.36



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT OF THE FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS       _
Glossary and Abbreviations
ACAR                 - Associaq&o de Cr4dito e Assistencia Rural
(Credit and Extension Agency)
BB                   - Banco do Brasil (Federal Bank)
BCR                  - Banco de Credito Real do Estado de Minas Gerais
(state bank)
BEMGE                - Banco do Estado de Minas Gerais (state bank)
BDMG                 - Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais
(State Development Bank)
CEE                  - Caixa Economica do Estado de Minas Gerais (state bank)
CLC                  - Community Learning Center
CFC                  - Common Facilities Center
COESMEG              - ComisAo Estadual de Sementes e Mudas de Minas Gerais
(State Commission for Seeds and Nurseries)
DAE                  - Departamento de Aguas e Eletrifica-ao
(Water and Electricity Agency)
EMBRAPA              - Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation)
EPAMIG               - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais
(State Agricultural Research Agency)
FSESP                - Fundaq&o Servicos Especiais de Saidde Publica
(Public Health Special Services Foundation)
FUNRURAL             - Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Social Security Fund for Agricultural WorkBrs)
IAA                  - Instituto de Asucar e Alcool
(Sugar and Alcohol Institute)
IEF                  - Instituto Estadual de Florestas
(State Forestry Institute)
ILPES                - Instituto Latinoamericano de Planificaci6n
(Latin American Planning Institute)
INAN                 - Instituto Nacional de Alimentagq.o e Nutriqao
(National Institute for Food and Nutrition)
MOBRAL               - Movimento Brasileiro de Alfabetizaq&o
(Brazilian Literacy Movement)
PESAC                - Planos Estaduais de Aplicaqco de Credito Rural
(State Plans for Rural Credit)
PIPMO                - Programa Intensivo de Preparaq&o de Mao-de-Obra
(Intensive Program for Vocational Training)
RURALTMLNAS          - FundaqAo Raral Mineira (State Develc--ment Agen2y7
SES                  - Secretaria Estadual de Sauide (State Secretariat of Health
SEPLAN               - Secretaria de Planejamento (State Planning Office)
SOAPA                - Sistema Operacional da Agricultura, Pecuaria e Abastecimento
(Agricultural Sector Operational System)
SUDECOOP             - Superintendencia de Cooperativismo
(Superintendency of Cooperatives)
SUCAM                - Superintendencia de Companhias de Sdude Pdblica
(Superintendency of Public Health Companies)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT OF THE FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION ................................              I
II.   SECTOR BACKGROUND .....................................             10
III.   THE PROJECT        ......................  .....................    13
A.   Background .......................................            13
B.   Objectives and General Description ....          ...........  15
C.   Project Components ...............................            17
Agricultural Credit .........................           17
Nurseries and Plant Production ....        ..........   19
Land Reclamation ............................           20
Production Support Services ....         .............  20
Social Services .............................           22
Administration and Evaluation Services    ......    27
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....          ..........   28
Cost Estimates ........        ...........................    28
Financing ...........       .............................     30
Procurement .........       .............................     30
Disbursement .........       ............................     31
Phasing of Investment ............................            31
Accounts and Audit .......         ........................   32
This appraisal report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions
which visited Brazil in November 1975 and March 1976 and were composed of
Messrs. J.C. Collarte, C. Vidalon, A. Tobelem, J. Besa (IBRD), G. Gray,
C. Percival, R. Moreno, E. Velez-Koppel, E. Calderon, A. Cespedes (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.     ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  ...........................                                    33
General  Administrative  Arrangements  ....                         ..........        33
Operational  Agreements  ...........................                                  34
Small Farmer and Sharecropper Participation
in  the  Credit  Program  ..........................                              35
Credit  Administration  ............................                                 35
VI.      MARKETS  AND  PRICES  ....................................                                    38
VII.       PRODUCTION,  TECHNOLOGY  AND  PRODUCER  BENEFITS  ....                          ......       41
Production  .......................................                                  41
Producer  Benefits  ................................                                  44
Financial  Returns  ................................                                  45
Farm  Models  ......................................                                  45
VIII.       BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ............................                                    54
Project  Beneficiaries  ............................                                  54
Employment  ..........                 .............................                  56
Ecological  Impact  ................................                                 57
Fiscal  Impact  ...........                 ..........................                57
Economic  Rate  of  Return  ..........................                                57
Risks ...                                                                             57
IX.      AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                           ............        59
ANNEX
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 12448



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN
THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
I. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Project Area
1.1       The project is the second rural development project in Brazil.  It
would be implemented in the Zona da Mata in the eastern part of the State of
Minas Gerais (see map) and would cover an area of some 3.5 million hectares
comprising 128 municipalities (counties). The area is characterized by a
rolling to hilly topography with areas of poor drainage (varzeas) in the
valleys.  No more than 10% of the project area is flat land.  Temperature in
the region varies little, maintaining an average of about 22 C. Rainfall
averages 1,400 mm per year, occurring chiefly from October through March with
a six-month drier period from April to September. About 70% of the area is
under pasture, practically all natural pastures. Annual crops (corn, beans
and rice) cover about 13%, while permanent crops (mainly sugar, coffee and
fruit trees) account for 4% of the land. Forest covers about 10% and 3% is
unused or unexploitable.
1.2       During the 18th and 19th centuries, due to good climate and prox-
imity to large consumer centers in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, agriculture
flourished, particularly the production of dairy products, sugar and coffee.
In the last 50 years, development of the flat lands of southern Brazil through
mechanization and large-scale production and the effects of a coffee eradi-
cation program brought about a steady decline in the agricultural fortunes of
the region. Today it is a depressed area, with poorly developed social ser-
vices, considerable chronic poverty, and a substantial level of emigration
by people in search of work and better opportunities elsewhere in Brazil.
However, partially as a result of its historical background, the Zona da
Mata has a reasonably equitable land tenure system under which about 87%
of the land is concentrated in holdings of not more than 100 hectares of
rainfed land. The total number of farmers is estimated at 74,600, most of
whom practice some kind of seasonal cattle fattening or small dairy opera-
tions, complemented by food or cash crops. In addition, some 24,000 share-
croppers engage mainly in the production of subsistence food crops. Rural per
capita income for the area was estimated in 1975 at about US$250 equivalent,
25% of the overall national figure. Hence the rural per capita income is well
below the national relative poverty level of US$340 equivalent.
Project Objectives and Execution
1.3       The objectives of the project would be to improve living standards
and incomes of small farmers in the Zona da Mata through (a) increasing farm
production by expanding the area under cultivation and raising yields, and



- 2 -
(b) expanding and improving social services to farmers and the general rural
population. These objectives would be achieved by an integrated project,
which would include the following elements:
(i) agricultural credit for the production of crops, livestock
(cattle and pigs), reforestation, land reclamation, and rural
electrification;
(ii) agricultural support services such as extension services,
agricultural research and demonstration facilities, and
cooperative development;
(iii) social infrastructure for health and education;
and
(iv) arrangements to administer, monitor, and evaluate the project.
The project would be implemented by the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN),
as policy planner and overall coordinator, through the State Rural Development
Agency (RURALMINAS). The project concept and its concomitant operating
policies have been entirely produced by the Brazilian experts of RURALMINAS
and SEPLAN in Minas Gerais. This had led to a close identification with the
project and to an early start of operations, which were initiated on June 1,
1976. It is estimated that by December 31, 1976, no less than US$12.7 million
of incremental project funds have been disbursed.
Project Components
1.4       Agricultural Credit.  A crucial element for the success of the
project is the ready availability and proper administration of agricultural
credit, which represents about 60% of estimated total project costs. Such
credit would be made available to farmers and sharecroppers through one federal
bank (Banco do Brasil) and three state banks (Caixa Economica do Estado de
Minas Gerais, Banco de Credito Real do Estado de Minas Gerais, Banco do Estado
de Minas Gerais), which would distribute funds through 146 existing branch
offices. Loans to farmers would be financed in accordance with procedures
similar to those established by the Central Bank for rural lending in Minas
Gerais. In those cases where loans are refinanced by the Central Bank, the
participating banks would retain remuneration equivalent to around 6%.  Except
for interest rates, any modification in the lending procedures would require
the agreement of the Bank (see Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The lending terms are described in paragraph 33 below. Production credit
would be used to finance on-farm investment, mainly breeding stock, livestock
handling equipment, machinery, fencing and nursery stock and annual working
capital requirements for hired labor, consumption credit, seeds, fertilizer,
pesticides, and other seasonal production requirements. Credit would also be
available for on-farm investment in reforestation, land reclamation, and for
the installation of power distribution lines to provide electricity for home,
farm, and small agro-industrial use.



- 3 -
1.5       Project credit would be incremental, i.e., the value of subloans
granted to small farmers (defined in this project as those with holdings up to
100 hectares) over and above the equivalent average value disbursed by the
participating banks in the project area during the two previous years (deter-
mined to be US$18 million per year). A condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan would be that the State Government had entered into agree-
ment with the Banco do Brasil (which would provide about 70% of the project
credit funds), whereby it undertook to participate in the project under terms
and conditions agreed upon with the Bank (see Section 5.01 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). It is estimated that credit would be supplied to some 25,500
farm families (including 9,000 sharecroppers) with landholdings of up to 100
hectares. In the case of credit for reforestation, an estimated 500 partici-
pants with holdings of up to 200 hectares may also qualify. For credit
granted for land reclamation, not more than one-half of such loans may be
granted to farmers with holdings of more than 100 hectares but not more than
200 hectares (see para. 2 of Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement). The
project would also support reforestation activities by providing assistance to
the State Forestry Institute in its plant nurseries expansion program. In
order to ensure that the lowest-income participants benefit from the credit
available, not less than one-third of the credit would be earmarked for share-
croppers and farm families with land-holdings of not more than 50 hectares
(see para. 2 of Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement). All credit benefi-
ciaries would be required by the participating banks to adopt farm development
programs prepared with the assistance of the state agricultural extension
agency.
1.6       Lending terms and conditions of the credit component would be those
already in application in the project area under present banking procedures.
They include a complex set of rates and terms which are reviewed annually.
Seasonal production loans of more than 50 times the state minimum monthly
salary (equivalent at the time of appraisal to Cr$ 26,640 or US$3,134) would
carry an annual nominal interest rate of 15%, unindexed. Loans of smaller
size would carry an annual nominal rate of 13%. In addition, small amounts of
short-term credit to finance the purchase of "modern" inputs such as seeds and
pesticides would be noninterest bearing. Loans for investment purposes would
carry maturities of 5-12 years (including up to two years of grace), depending
upon the nature of investment, with an interest rate of 7%, unindexed, except
that partial monetary correction would be applied for those loans requiring
longer term investment. At present, correction of 8% per annum is applied,
subject to review and modification by the National Monetary Council. Con-
sistent with terms already prevailing for the project area, loans for rural
electrification would have maturities of 6 years at an annual nominal interest
rate of 10-15%, depending upon the size of the farm. In the case of loans for
reforestation, the interest rate would be 10%, unindexed. Given Brazil's
inflation rate, the interest rates proposed for the project, which are
standard for agricultural lending in the region, would be negative in real
terms. However, the overwhelming majority of beneficiaries would be low-
income farmers and the investments being financed would be closely supervised.
Agricultural lending conditions for Brazil as a whole, particularly those for



- 4 -
small farmers, are presently under review. This review is expected to result
in regulations that would reach a larger number of beneficiaries, and would
simplify and streamline terms and conditions.
1.7       An important feature of the project is an attempt to deliver insti-
tutional credit to a significant number of the sharecroppers and small income
farmers who form a large part (89%o) of the project target beneficiaries.
Under present conditions, this group has limited access to credit mainly
because they lack adequate real collateral and generate insufficient income
to meet the required cost of services of agricultural extension agencies and
lending institutions. The project would aim at overcoming these difficulties
by (a) direct funding of the cost of extending agricultural extension services
to the target beneficiaries and (b) collaboration among the Borrower, the
Guarantor and the participating banks to assist and encourage lending to this
group. Toward this end assurances were received from the Government that the
project would aim at annual lending to the specific target group (some 9,000
sharecroppers and 14,000 farmers with land holdings less than 50 hectares) of
not less than US$5 million equivalent each year, or an aggregate amount of
US$30 million during 1976-80. In order to monitor the progress made in
achieving this objective, it was agreed that the Borrower would conduct an
annual review of the credit activities of the project, with particular refer-
ence to the specified target group, and submit by November 30 of each year a
report to the Bank which would form the basis for deciding upon action required
to ensure that the objectives of the project are met (see Section 3.03 (d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The agreement of the Federal Government and the
participating banks to support this initiative would be stated in supplemental
letters I and 2 to the Loan Agreement.
1.8       Land Reclamation.  A program to reclaim 8,000 hectares of individ-
ually owned, poorly drained varzeas would be undertaken by RURALMINAS. The
project would finance the cost of land clearing equipment, to be owned and
operated by RURALMINAS, as well as other costs such as engineering design,
surveying, labor, supervision, and construction of flood control, irrigation
and drainage structures. Through agricultural credit made available under the
project, benefiting farmers would be required to repay to RURALMINAS the
costs of on-farm investment. The State Government has given assurances that
the varzeas to be reclaimed would be in accordance with criteria agreed upon
with the Bank (see Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
1.9       Agricultural Extension.  The state agricultural extension service,
ACAR-MG, would be expanded by an additional 200 technical and professional
staff, about two-thirds of whom have already been recruited and are under-
going training. It is expected that by June 1, 1977, 150 of the additional
staff would have been recruited and deployed in the project area, the remaining
50 by the end of the project life. Assurances to this effect were received
from the State Government during negotiations (see Section 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). As far as possible, extensionists would attempt to work with
groups of small farmers thereby increasing the coverage of participants. In
so doing, the additional staff would help in meeting the target ratio of one
agricultural extensionist per 80 farmers in the state. Social extensionists,
recruited to implement the health activity under the project, would work



closely with the agricultural extensionists. The project would finance the
cost of incremental salaries during the 1976-81 project period, training
costs, vehicles and equipment. With the costs of their new operations fully
covered by the project, the new extension staff would be able to focus on the
participating small farmers rather than on higher-income farmers, who can
aff^r1 to pay for their services.
1.10      Agricultural Research and Demonstration.  A program to develop and
demonstrate improved agronomic practices (many of which have already been in
use by some farmers for at least 5 years and are well proven) would be estab-
lished by the state research agency. The project would finance the cost of
field trials, incremental staff salaries, equipment purchases and operating
costs. Technical assistance would be provided by the state agricultural
extension service. This testing and demonstration program is complementary to
the basic commodity research which the Bank is supporting through a recently
approved loan.
1.11      Cooperatives.  The State Superintendency of Cooperatives, SUDECOOP,
would be strengthened and expanded by establishing a new regional office in
the project area to (a) promote cooperation and establish cooperatives among
small farmers; (b) provide technical assistance to existing cooperatives;
(c) organize training courses for cooperative managers and administrators;
and (d) offer courses to cooperative members, especially on marketing and pro-
duction. The project costs would include salaries for incremental staffing,
training, vehicles, and equipment. The State Government has given assurances
that SUDECOOP would receive the necessary means to support the project effec-
tively and that not later than June 1, 1977, SUDECOOP would be reorganized and
adequately staffed. (See Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
1.12      Health Services.  The project would include the construction or
upgrading of 275 simple health posts and 99 more elaborate health centers,
the purchase of equipment, medical supplies and food supplements, the construc-
tion of simple on-farm sanitation works, and part of the costs of incremental
salaries for the expanded health program. The State Secretariat of Health
would be responsible for implementing the health component. The program would
be directed specifically to a target population composed primarily of pregnant
and lactating women, and children under 5 years of age. At full implementa-
tion, 90% of this group would be covered by the program. To a lesser degree,
the program would reach children from 5-14 years (40%), and persons over 14
(25%). The health posts would administer four basic services: (i) primary
curative health care with emphasis on maternal and child health care; (ii) pre-
liminary preventive care comprising vaccination against communicable diseases
such as tetanus, measles, whooping cough, diptheria, smallpox and polio;
(iii) improvements to sanitary conditions which would aim at reducing the
incidence of waterborne diseases (in particular schistosomiasis) and would
include 15,000 on-farm pit latrines and 18,000 fresh water filters; and
(iv) a program of food supplementation, including the distribution of enriched
flour, beans, milk, and sugar, to the primary target group of pregnant and
lactating women and young children. The food supplementation program would



- 6 -
be carried out in conjunction with the National Institute of Food and Nutri-
tion (INAN). Other elements of INAN's national nutrition program are also
being financed by a recently approved Bank loan. The Fundo de Assistencia
ao Trabalhador Rural (FUNRURAL) would supervise and manage the project's
health sanitation program, which forms a part of the overall health program for
the state. The conclusion of agreements between SEPLAN and INAN and FUNRURAL
would be a condition of disbursement for this component (see Section 3.07 and
paragraph 4(b) to Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
1.13      Education.  As a part of the State Government's ongoing program to
expand and improve education services, the project would extend basic rural
primary education as well as agricultural and technical training opportunities
to the participating farm families. The basic objective of this activity
would be to assist the local population to make more efficient use of their
existing resources. The program would be implemented by the State Secretariat
of Education assisted by the extension services, and would include the follow-
ing elements: (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of 28 community
learning centers to serve 5,600 primary students and 840 students in voca-
tional training; (ii) in-service training for 200 technicians and 25 voca-
tional and science teachers; (iii) formal and nonformal short courses for
instructors in agricultural technology, farm management and related subjects
to serve 21,000 farm families; (iv) construction, furnishing and equipping of
a common facilities center of 350 student places; (v) provision of equipment
for the training of farmers in cooperative activities under the supervision of
the Superintendency of Cooperatives; (vi) provision of training materials and
supplies; and (vii) technical assistance involving 20 man-years of consultancy
services and 15 man-years of fellowships for training of vocational teachers.
Assurances were obtained from the State Government that the selection of sites
for the community learning centers would be in accordance with criteria accept-
able to the Bank (see Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, the
state has agreed (see Sections 3.10 (a-c) and 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement)
to submit, or cause to be submitted, by June 1, 1977, for Bank approval:
(a) the details of the training program for cooperative and agricultural
technicians, and for vocational teachers; (b) the details of the training
program, including the criteria on which it is based and evaluation proposals,
for the farmers and young adults to be trained under the project; and (c) the
details of the plans for the selection of technical assistance specialists and
their local counterparts and the fellowship program for those who would be
carrying out the proposed education activities.
Project Costs and Financing
1.14      Costs.  Over a five-year period (1976-81) the project would require
financing of US$139 million equivalent, excluding taxes, of which US$20.6
million or 15%, would be foreign exchange. The estimated costs, summarized
below, include physical contingencies of 15% on civil works and price contin-
gencies aggregating about 31% on baseline costs.



- 7 -
Summary of Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Local Currency   Foreign Exchange        Total
Agricultural Credit                       56.6                9.8              66.4
Land Reclamation                           5.5                1.4               6.9
Of which credit                         (4.0)               (.7)            (4.7)
Productive Support
Agriculture Research
and Development                       1.0                  .2              1.2
Agriculture Extension                    8.7                1.6             10.3
Cooperative Development                  1.5                 .3              1.8
Plant Nurseries and
and Forestry Development              1.4                  .2              1.6
Social Infrastructure
Health                                   4.9                 .6              5.5
Education                               7.0                 1.0              8.0
Organizational Support
Project Administration                   1.4                 .2              1.6
Monitoring and Evaluation                 .9                 .2              1.1
Baseline Costs                            88.9               15.5            104.4
Physical Contingencies
(15% of civil works costs)              2.0                  .3              2.3
Price Contingencies
(30% of baseline costs)                27.5                 4.8             32.3
Total Project Costs                      118.4               20.6            139.0
1.15      Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$42 million would finance
30% of total project costs, the balance to be provided by the Federal Govern-
ment through the participating financial institutions.  The loan would cover
the full foreign exchange costs of US$20.6 million equivalent, as well as
US$21.4 million equivalent in local costs. In a country like Brazil, which
is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it appears appro-
priate for the Bank to give some assistance in the financing of local currency
expenditures on projects which, like the present one, have very high priority
and yet have a very low foreign exchange content (in the present case 15 per-
cent). This situation typically arises in agricultural projects in Brazil
in view of the high capability of the Brazilian economy for the production



- 8 -
of the inputs required for investment in this sector. If the Bank is to be
effective in supporting a project of this kind it seems reasonable for it
to contribute at least 30 percent of the costs even though this entails
financing some local currency expenditures. During negotiations, assurances
were received from the federal and state governments that adequate funds would
be available for the effective and timely execution of the project (see Section
3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
1.16      Procurement.  Farm inputs financed under the credit component would
be procured through normal commercial channels. Food supplements, instruc-
tional materials and office supplies would be purchased according to local
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. Due to the relatively small
size of individual construction works and their geographic dispersion, such
works would be contracted through a combination of local competitive bidding,
force account and self-help. Because of the need for specialization and local
servicing, equipment, including vehicles, for a total value of about US$1
million equivalent, would be procured through local competitive bidding,
advertised only in the national press but not excluding foreign suppliers,
many of whom are represented in Brazil. Foreign consulting services would be
contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
1.17      Disbursement.  The Bank would reimburse SEPLAN for 30% of all
approved project expenditures. The credit portion of the project would be
financed from the normal resources of the banks participating in the credit
program, including rediscount facilities from the Central Bank. The Bank
would disburse to the Borrower, the State Government, an amount equal to 30%
of the incremental credits made by these banks upon certification that the
credits had been disbursed. The funds thus disbursed from the Bank's loan
would be retained by the State Government to finance part of the balance of
its contribution to the project. For the most part disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure with full documentation retained for
ex-post review by Bank supervision missions. In the case of expenditures for
permanent fixtures, equipment and installation, detailed documentation would
be required prior to disbursement. Expenditures for a total value of not more
than US$3.8 million equivalent made between June 1976 and the signing of the
loan would also qualify.
1.18      Auditing.  RURALMINAS, through the State Secretariat of Planning,
would submit within four months of the end of its fiscal year, annual audited
financial statements prepared by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Other participating agencies would submit to the Secretariat of Planning, for
transmission to the Bank, within four months of the cost of each fiscal year,
audited statements of expenditures of project funds. The State Government has
given assurances that the audit procedures would be followed (see Section 4.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).



-9-
Organization and Management
1.19      SEPLAN would serve as policy planner and overall coordinator for
the project. RURALMINAS, the technical arm of the State Secretariat of
Agriculture, which has been responsible for the preparation of the project,
would be the executing agency coordinating day-to-day project implementation.
RURALMINAS has been in existence since 1955, has a large staff engaged in
settlement and general agricultural development activities, and has already
established an administrative unit to undertake the project. The 39 federal
and state agencies involved in implementing different aspects of the project
have entered into administrative agreements with RURALMINAS for carrying out
the respective parts of the project. The Federal University of Vicosa, which
is located in the project area, would be responsible for monitoring and eval-
uating the project. This would include evaluating the impact of the project
on agricultural production and farmer incomes as well as the impact of the
social components. RURALMINAS has established a project unit with a full-time
Project Manager directly responsible to the Director-General of RURALMINAS.
Because of the complexity of the social components of the project, the State
Government has appointed special health and education coordinators who report
directly to the State Secretaries for Health and Education. In addition, in
order to strengthen RURALMINAS and SEPLAN, the State Government has given
assurances that by June 1, 1977, they would conclude (through SEPLAN) an
agreement with the Instituto Latinoamericano de Planificacion (ILPES) for
technical assistance for project management, including provision of approxi-
mately 300 expert-months (see Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Beneficiaries
1.20      The main benefits of the project would be increased agricultural
production and higher incomes for small farmers and sharecroppers. This
would be accomplished through increased yields on 65,800 hectares of land
presently under cultivation, and the expansion of cropped lands through
reclamation of 8,000 hectares of varzeas. Production would be increased on
approximatley 3,300 dairy farms and 220 swine-breeding and fattening units.
Newly established eucalyptus plantations on 7,900 farms would provide large
quantities of timber for local building requirements, wood pulp for the
local paper industry and charcoal for the steel industry. Overall, the
annual incremental aggregate production in the Zona da Mata resulting from
increased production and better productivity should amount to about 16% at
full development.
1.21      The financial rates of return that participating farmers can expect
have been calculated on the basis of six farm models representative of the
crop, livestock and forestry enterprises to be financed under the project and
these range from 16 to 29%. In the case of the sharecroppers, the financial
rates of return would average around 29%. The price and cost sensitivity of
the models was tested under various assumptions to obtain the best estimate
for each model. On the basis of the weighted average of the six models the
average annual family income of project beneficiaries after full development



- 10 -
would be 60% over the present level, and would approximate US$390 per capita,
or roughly US$2,060 per family. The project's important institutional and
social benefits are virtually impossible to quantify. Therefore an estimation
of the overall economic rate of return was made taking into account only the
costs and benefits of the agricultural component (whose cost is estimated at
US$116 million equivalent). On that basis, the economic rate of return is
estimated at 22%.
1.22      Direct beneficiaries of the project would be the 25,500 (16,500
small-scale owner-operators and 9,000 sharecroppers) participating families.
Of these, 89% are farmers owning or working less than 50 hectares, with aver-
age annual per capita income of around US$250, which is below the relative
poverty line. The remaining 11% with holdings up to 100 hectares have per
capita income of a slightly higher amount. While more striking conditions
of poverty can be found among, say, the landless migrant workers of Northeast
Brazil, there is no doubt that the project beneficiaries are poor by both
Brazilian and international standards. Indirect beneficiaries, estimated to
total 300,000 people, would be reached by the education and health components.
The project would result in appreciable expansion in employment, around 8,200
new permanent jobs, representing an increase of 4.6% in the present work force
of the project area. It would also help to reduce underemployment.
Project Risks
1.23      A risk associated with the project would be the difficulty in
achieving smooth working relations among the many institutions involved in
the project. However, since project activities would be undertaken by exist-
ing and experienced agencies, and since the State Government has already
implemented the most important measures to insure proper coordination of
the project, this risk does not appear unreasonable. Another risk would be
whether the proposed mechanism to ensure that credit reaches the really small
farmers and sharecroppers works effectively since it represents a departure
from existing practices. The Bank has, however, received assurances from the
Central Bank, and the participating banks, that determined efforts will be
made in this direction. In addition annual targets have been agreed for
specific amounts of money to be lent to specific types of beneficiaries,
and it has been agreed that such targets will be reviewed annually. With
such assurances it is believed that reasonable steps have been taken to
achieve the desired objectives of the project.
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
The Physical Environment
2.1       Brazil is the largest nation in South America, in area (8.5 million
km2) and in population (110 million inhabitants), and its ecology is very
diverse. Essentially there are five main ecological zones, namely, (i) the



- 11 -
wet tropics, (ii) the dry tropics, (iii) the woodland savannah, (iv) the
humid temperate zone, and (v) the grassland zone. The wet tropics include
about 250 million hectares of tropical rain forest of the Amazon Basin and the
narrow strip along the east coast known as the "Mata." The latter was the
first part of Brazil to be settled and is the most heavily populated. The dry
tropics cover about 150 million hectares and includes most of the Northeast.
The vegetation is dominated by thorny deciduous shrub and drought-resistant
grasses and trees. The region includes the "Sertao," where periodic and very
severe droughts pose major problems. The woodland savannah includes about 200
million hectares and is known as the "Campos Cerrados" region. It includes the
Central Plateau (Planalto), whose average elevation is about 1,000 m, and part
of the Brazilian escarpment as well as the headwaters of two of the three
major river systems. The humid-temperate zone covers about 200 million
hectares of the central highlands and the southeastern escarpment. It in-
cludes a large but heavily depleted area of tropical hardwood forest on the
eastern coast and the temperate rain forest in the south. The grassland zone
includes about 50 million hectares in the south which are similar to the
Argentine and Uruguayan "Pampas," as well as the tropical tall grass prairies
such as the "Pantanal" of Mato Grosso.
Agricultural Products
2.2       A wide range of crops are grown.  The most important for the domes-
tic market include manioc (cassava), maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes,
vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy products, poultry, and swine. In
addition, coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton, cocoa, and beef are important for
both the export and domestic markets. In fact, three of these commodities,
(coffee, soybeans, and sugar) generate 40% of the country's total export
earnings. If unprocessed or semiprocessed agricultural exports are included,
the agricultural sector accounts for more than 60% of the total value of
exports.
2.3       Brazil is still the largest exporter of coffee in the world,
although its share of the world market has declined from 50% in the early
1950s to about 30% at present. Due to overcapacity and the large build-
up of stocks in 1966, the Government initiated a coffee eradication program.
However, after the frosts of 1969, which reduced the 1970 crop to less than
11 million bags, the Government was forced to reverse its policy. The impact
of the reversal was felt in 1974 with the production of some 26 million bags.
The severe frosts of 1975, which drastically reduced production to an esti-
mated 9 million bags in 1976, may result in coffee producers gradually moving
out of frost-prone areas.
2.4       With the decline in Cuban production since 1970, Brazil is now the
largest producer of sugar in the world. Until that year, sugar production
increased very slowly, but in response to very high world prices, large
increases took place in 1972 and 1973. Due to unusually bad weather (drought
and frosts in the Center-South and heavy, unseasonable rains in the Northeast),
proAllction declined in 1974 and 1975, yet sugar in 1974 surpassed coffee as
Brazil's principal foreign exchange earner.



- 12 -
2.5       The production of soybeans has increased from less than 1 million
tons in 1968 to almost 10 million tons in 1975, making Brazil the third
largest producer in the world. This expansion has taken place mainly in
the states of Sao Paulo, Parana and Rio Grande do Sul, and has been instru-
mental in restructuring agriculture in southern Brazil. The area under soy-
bean cultivation is expected to increase from 5.7 million hectares in 1975
to 10.5 million hectares by 1980, and production is expected to reach 18 mil-
lion tons, with exportable surplus at 11-12 million tons compared to 7 million
tons in 1975.
Recent Sectoral Performance
2.6       Over the 1967-74 period, the agricultural sector performed well in
supplying domestic demand for food and fiber--as well as a rising volume of
export commodities--with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
climatic conditions in three out of seven years. The agriculture sector's
contribution to GDP has declined from 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present,
but its contribution to exports has remained significant (about 60% of the
total value). Until 1970 growth in agricultural production was attributed
almost entirely to expansion of land under cultivation and relatively little
effort was made to improve unit productivity. Inflation, price controls,
erratic Government intervention in marketing of products, overvalued exchange
rates and export controls tended to distort prices, particularly in the early
1960s, discouraging increased production and exports. Expansion of agricul-
tural activity into the interior of the country created a need for new infra-
structure to handle product distribution, but this need was largely neglected
until the mid-1960s, when overall changes in economic management helped to
eliminate some of these distortions and improve incentives for farmers.
Government Policy
2.7       The agricultural strategy of the Government's National Development
Plan (1975-79) is to increase agricultural output by 40% during 1975-79.
This is to be accomplished by stimulating increased production for export
to continue the agricultural sector's substantial contribution to foreign
exchange earnings, and by providing a means for raising income levels of the
rural poor. To achieve these ends the Government has: (i) allocated sub-
stantial public resources to incorporate new areas into production through
programs such as the National Integration Program (PIN) and the new POLAMAZONIA
and POLOCENTRO programs, which provide agricultural credit and financing of
transport and rural infrastructure in the North and Center-West, respectively;
(ii) promoted a significant expansion in the overall supply of agricultural
credit; (iii) reorganized federal research and extension services to intensify
efforts to improve productivity and to serve a broader segment of the rural
population; and (iv) introduced special programs such as POLONORDESTE, which
is designed to improve small farmers' productivity in the Northeast through
the formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects. For
the POLONORDESTE program alone, the Government has committed resources of
about US$2.5 billion equivalent.



- 13 -
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
2.8       The proposed loan for the Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
would be the Bank's tenth loan for the development of Brazil's agricultural
sector. The Bank has made two loans, totalling US$66 million, for live-
stock development; three amounting to US$167 million in support of agro-
industry and grain storage credit programs; one for US$6.7 million for the
Alto Turi Land Settlement project in the State of Maranhao; one for US$23
million for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders project; one for US$12 million
for the Rio Grande do Norte rural development project; and one for US$40
million for agricultural research. The proposed loan would be the second
loan made for an integrated rural development project in Brazil. Although
still in its initial year, implementation of the first project (Rio Grande do
Norte - Loan 1195-BR) is progressing satisfactorily. Other rural development
projects are under preparation in several Northeast states.
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Background
General
3.1       The project area, commonly known as the Zona da Mata, covers about
3.5 million ha in southeast Minas Gerais. It is situated about 200 km from
Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte and some 400 km from Sao Paulo. It encom-
passes one of the eight regions of Minas Gerais, and contains 128 municipali-
ties (see map in Annex 1). The administrative center of Juiz de Fora is the
largest population center, with some 50,000 inhabitants. Total population
is estimated at around 1.6 million, approximately 45% of which is rural and
55% urban. Population density is about 35 persons per km2, about four times
the average for Brazil. GDP per capita is about US$250 per year, roughly
25% of that of the country as a whole. Most of the land is hilly with
latosols on the upland areas and alluvial soils in the valley bottoms
(varzeas). No more than 10% of the project area could be called flat.
Temperature in the Zona da Mata varies little, maintaining an average of
about 220 Celsius, and rainfall averages 1,400 mm per year with a six-month
drier period from April to September.
3.2       During the 18th and 19th centuries, due to the good climate and proxi-
mity to large consumer centers in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, agriculture in
the Zona da Mata flourished, particularly the production of dairy products,
sugar and coffee. In the last 50 years, development of the flat lands of
southern Brazil through mechanization and large-scale production reduced the
relative competitiveness of coffee production, bringing about a steady decline
in the agricultural fortunes of the region. Today it is a depressed area,



- 14 -
with poorly developed social services, chronic poverty, and substantial
emigration by people in search of work and better opportunities elsewhere in
Brazil. However, partially as a result of its historical background, the Zona
da Mata has a fairly equitable land tenure system under which about 87% of the
land is concentrated in holdings of not more than 100 hectares of rainfed
land, small-sized holdings by Brazilian standards. The total number of farm
owners is estimated at 74,600, most of whom practice some kind of seasonal
cattle or small dairy operations, complemented by food or cash crops. In
addition, some 24,000 sharecroppers engage mainly in the production of sub-
sistence food crops. Rural per capita income for the area was estimated in
1975 at about US$250 equivalent, which is about 25% of that of the country as
a whole. Hence the rural per capita income is well below the national rela-
tive poverty level (considered to be one-third of per capita national income)
of US$340 equivalent.
3.3       Social infrastructure is poor and available health and education
services are particularly deficient. The health status of the inhabitants
of the Zona da Mata is characterized by: (a) high mortality and morbidity
rates caused by communicable diseases; (b) high infant and preschool mor-
tality rates, mainly from infectious diseases; and (c) a serious incidence
of malnutrition as a basic or associated cause of child mortality. In
addition, schistosomiasis is endemic in the project area, with some locali-
ties having nearly their entire population infected. Hospital services are
meager and there are only 4.5 beds per 1,000 inhabitants, out of which the
private sector has some 70%. A total of 135 physicians work half-time in
the project area while some 14 nurses and 235 auxiliary workers provide very
modest support services. Existing public and semi-public medical coverage is
estimated at 10% of the population. Even if private practice patients are
added, maximum coverage does not reach above 40%.
3.4       Primary schools in the project area are largely financed by the
municipalities, with less than one-third of them being supported by the
State Government. While state schools are usually well constructed, albeit
according to almost too sophisticated plans, some of the schools are mere
shacks provided by local farmers. More serious than the lack of facilities,
however, is the inadequacy of the teaching service. For instance, it is
estimated that about 1,200 primary school teachers in the project area do not
have the basic qualifications required by law, and curricula are generally
not adapted to the students' future needs. Thus, the efficiency of the sys-
tem is low, and the quality of education is poor. Students who drop out of
the four-year primary school course (well over 80% in 1969-72) get little
education or economic benefits from formal schooling. Because of overaged
students and the high repeater rate (about 30% in 1970), it takes well over
10 years of formal schooling for a student to successfully complete his
primary education. All these problems are particularly acute in the Zona da
Mata region where in 1970--and as a consequence of poor schooling-- the
illiteracy rate among the 5-to-14 age group was about 55%. This problem
is also reflected in the low educational attainment of the labor force, as
well over 60% of the agricultural workers have not had any formal education.



- 15 -
Despite recent efforts by Government programs such as the Brazilian Movement
for Literacy (MOBRAL) and the Intensive Program of Preparation for Industrial
Labor (PIPMO), the education system in Zona da Mata requires much improvement.
B.   Objectives and General Description
3.5       The prime objective of the project would be to attempt to revitalize
the agricultural economy of the area and improve the standards of living of
its many inhabitants, a substantial part of whom are small farmers. This
would be accomplished by (a) raising the income levels of poor families
through provision of credit and technical services; (b) increasing agricul-
tural production by introducing technical innovations and expanding the
variety of crop and livestock enterprises; and (c) generally improving the
quality of life by expanding and upgrading social services, particularly
education, health and sanitation. Increased production would be the backbone
of the project.
3.6       The production components of the project are designed to benefit
about 140,000 people, of which 89% would be farmers owning or working less
than 50 ha of rainfed land. This would class them as "poor," as the majority
number among the lower 40% of the Brazilian income scale. 1/ However, it
should be borne in mind that the size of land holding alone is not a good
indicator of income levels. The project area is hilly (less than 10% of it
can be considered flat), part of it is eroded as a result of poor management
practices following coffee eradication, and its soils are of moderate to poor
fertility. It should also be mentioned that these farmers are not the poorest
of the rural poor of Brazil since much more striking rural poverty can be
found among the landless migrant workers of the Northeast. However, there is
little doubt that most of the project beneficiaries are poor by Brazilian or
international standards. The project therefore represents a modest but posi-
tive attempt to reach part of the rural poor in Brazil. Direct beneficiaries
can be classified as follows:
1/   The models presented in Chapter VIII illustrate the meager present family
incomes. If divided by 5.5, which is the estimated number of members of
each family, the per capita income would be around US$250, which is well
below the figure used to define the 40% poor in Brazil (US$340).



- 16 -
Beneficiaries
Total No.          Land
Farm Size                    No. of Families      of Persons      ha        _
(ha)
Sharecroppers                     9,000      35.3%        49,500         -       0
Farmers with less than 10 ha
rainfed land                    3,400      13.3%        18,700     17,000   3.0
Farmers with 10-50 ha
rainfed land                   10,500     41.2%        57,740    315,000  55.8
Farmers with 50-100 ha
rainfed land                    2,100       8.2%       11,550    157,500  27.9
Farmers with 100-200 ha
rainfed land (forestry
component only)                   500       2.0%        2,750      75,000  13.3
Total                       25,500    100.0%       140,250    564,500 100.0
The total of 140,000 persons can be classified as follows: 25,500 adult
men; 25,500 adult women; 15,000 out-of-school young men and women of more
than 14 years of age; 25,000 school-age children (7 to 14 years of age)
in school; and 13,000 school-age children presently not in school 1/. Of
the children, 40% of the over-seven-year-olds are currently illiterate, 20%
have only one to two years of schooling and only 26% of the over-10-year-
olds have completed primary school. Of the adults, 80% of the heads of
families need training in connection with their occupational activities. In
addition to the 140,000 persons benefiting from the production components of
the project, many others would benefit from the improved social services.
For instance, it is expected that primary medical care, vaccinations, basic
sanitation and nutrition services would be provided to some 700,000 people
annually; at least 97,000 villagers would have new water filters; 81,000
would have new pit latrines, 42,000 would have other sanitary improvements
on their farms, and would for the first time have access to medical facili-
ties. An estimated 200,000 people, mostly young people - who at present are
not being served or receive only rudimentary services - would be reached
through both the improved education and health programs.
3.7       The project, which would be carried out over five years, would con-
sist of:
1/   Under the project 12,000 of these children would for the first time
have access to new primary schools or workshops.



- 17 -
(a) credit to small- and medium-sized farmers to cover their
incremental capital needs and for on-farm investments in
crops, livestock, forestry, and rural electrification
(some 63% of project costs);
CI)  land reclamation (7% of project costs);
(c) improvement and expansion of (i) applied research and
demonstration trials specifically designed for small
farmers; (ii) agricultural extension services, in-
cluding preparation of loan requests and periodic super-
vision; (iii) assistance to farmers' cooperatives; and
(iv) provision of planting material for forestry devel-
opment (14% of project costs);
(d) strengthening and expanding education and health services
(13% of project costs); and
(e) supporting project administration, project evaluation and
monitoring (3% of project costs).
C.   Project Components
Agricultural Credit
3.8       The largest part of the project would be a comprehensive agricul-
tural credit program (about 60% of project costs) aimed at small- and medium-
sized farmers, with a target of 25,500 farm families. The credit would be
provided through a well-developed commercial banking network of 146 branch
offices in the project area, and would be supervised by and linked to a strong
technical assistance program provided by the Associacao de Credito e Assistencia
Rural (ACAR). ACAR would prepare a development program for each farmer as a
precondition to a loan from the banks. Terms and conditions would be similar
to those prevalent in Minas Gerais. Technical advice would be provided
to individuals or to groups of small farmers ("Grupo de Adultos"), backed by
a research and demonstration program based mainly on on-farm agricultural
experiments. Incremental credit would be provided for both short-term pro-
duction requirements (crop and livestock finance) and for longer-term invest-
ment purposes. Productive credit would cover normal crop, livestock, and
forestry production costs, including consumption credit for the smaller
farmers and sharecroppers and hired labor and other inputs, while loans for
investment would be mainly for the establishment of sugarcane and fruit
trees, pasture establishment and improvement, reforestation, the purchase of
breeding stock, fencing, farm equipment, livestock handling facilities, and
rural electrification. Although the disbursement of credit would follow
already established channels and procedures, several adjustments in policy and
operation would be introduced to ensure that the bulk of the credit goes to
small farmers with less than 100 ha of rainfed land. 1/
1/   Terms and conditions are described in paras 5.4 to 5.14.



- 18 -
3.9       Crop Production.  The project would finance on-farm investment and
working capital aimed at increasing yields of certain specific crops, all of
which are already significant in the project area. Improved methods of
maize production would involve 10% of the present maize area (maize is grown
throughout the Zona da Mfata), distributed as follows: 15,000 ha in Vicosa,
10,000 ha in Juiz de Fora, and 5,000 ha in Muriae. Improved systems of
bean production would involve 20% of the present bean area. Beans would also
be intercropped with maize in areas where maize is not currently associated
with beans, thus increasing the area cultivated with beans. In the reclaimed
varzeas, beans would also follow rice as a second crop under irrigation.
Rice production would be concentrated in the reclaimed varzeas and in 10% of
the present rice rainfed area, mainly around Muriae. The sugarcane component
would concentrate on renovation and improvement of 12,400 ha of sugarcane in
Ponte Nova and Visconde do Rio Branco municipios, where five existing sugar
factories, recently expanded as part of the national sugar development plan,
are still operating at less than 50% of their capacity. Tobacco growing would
be encouraged, since it is labor-intensive and, though limited in area,
provides a substantial income per unit of input. The tobacco production
component would consist of the substitution of flue-cured cigarette tobacco
for coarse twist tobacco ("fumo de corda"), currently under cultivation but
which is increasingly difficult to market. The proposed substitution would be
carried out in all 16 municipios now producing tobacco. The fruit tree
component aims at increasing the area planted with fruit trees, from 6,500 ha
to 11,200 ha, an increment of 4,700 ha. An intensive campaign would be
initiated by ACAR, especially in Vicosa, Uba, Leopoldina, Muriae and Manhuacu
municipios where ecological conditions are particularly favorable for fruit
production. Vegetables and forage production would be substantially increased
in the reclaimed varzeas as second crops, under irrigation, after rice.
3.10      Livestock Production.  Much of the area is well suited to small-
scale dairy farming. Accordingly, milk production and, to a lesser extent,
pig production would be encouraged. Milk production would be increased by
better livestock management, improved nutrition, improvement in cattle quality,
and improved animal health. The improved practices currently being advocated
by ACAR on relatively large dairy farms would be extended throughout the proj-
ect area to encompass some 3,300 small dairy farms within the 10- to 100-ha
size range. These farms total about 135,000 ha, of which some 70% (94,500 ha)
is pasture. As regards pig production, the project would develop 220 small
(12 sow) combined breeding and fattening units on farms capable of growing a
minimum of 10 ha of improved corn and operated by family labor. Corn grind-
ing equipment would be shared between farmers, or, alternatively, the pig
marketing cooperatives would establish local corn grinding facilities.
3.11      Forestry.  The project area is also well suited to forestry, parti-
cularly the production of eucalyptus. The project would finance on-farm
investments to establish plantations of fast-growing species on small- and
medium-sized farms in the interest of both soil conservation and the pro-
duction of wood. Some 40,000 ha of mostly eucalyptus plantations would be
established throughout the Zona da Mata during the five-year project period
on about 7,900 farms of less than 100 ha.  The reforestation area within each



- 19 -
farm would range from 15% on the smallest farms to 26% on farms averaging
70 ha. Since the main obstacles for the small farmer engaged in forestry
are the lack of income until his trees are harvested (eighth year) and the
difficulty in obtaining credit on appropriate terms for reforestation, the
farmer must have an income from annual crops on which to live as well as to
repay part of the interest due on the reforestation loan. Credit for re-
forestation would, therefore, be considered in conjunction with credit for
other crops. In addition, the Government of the State of Minas Gerais has
agreed to extend a subsidy to small farmers equivalent up to the tax incen-
tives (income tax credits) that large farmers can claim, mainly through
subsidized planting material, transport and free technical assistance.
Nurseries and Plant Production
3.12      In order to cope with the increased demand for planting material
resulting from project implementation, the Instituto Estadual de Florestas
(IEF) initiated early in 1976 an expansion program of its nurseries in Zona
da Mata. No less than ten new nurseries will go into operation so that the
incremental supply of seedlings could increase from 14 million seedlings in
1976-77 to 28 million seedling in 1980-81. Each nursery has been designed
for simple operation and average production is expected to be in the area
of one to two million seedlings (mostly eucalyptus) per year. It is worth
mentioning that this was the first project activity to be initiated in early
1976 as at least one year lead time is necessary for proper implementation.
The cost of this component has been estimated at US$1.6 million for the next
five years and would also cover reforestation subsidies and transport of
seedlings to a large number of distribution centers.
3.13      Rural Electrification.  This component, estimated at US$6.2 million
total cost, would provide electricity for home, farm and agro-industrial use
in parts of the project area where electricity is not available. Priority
would be given to erecting the primary and secondary distribution lines in
those areas where farms under 100 ha predominate, i.e., where they represent
at least 80% of the potential energy consumers. Conforming to usual prac-
tices, only the direct costs of the installation of the secondary lines and the
costs of the materials and transformers would be charged to the farmer, leaving
the general overhead and construction costs to be financed by the State Govern-
ment. Approximately 440 km of line would be laid, thus providing coverage to
about 2,700 farms by the end of 1980 (year 5). The farm connection costs,
which would be financed by farmers through credit made available under the
project, would include six-year repayment terms and 10 to 15% interest rates,
depending on the size of loan. The general coordination of this component
would be carried out by the Departamento de Aguas e Eletrificacao (DAE)
through an agreement with Fundacao Rural Mineira (RURALMINAS), the local state
development agency. DAE would subcontract construction of all works and the
provision of all administrative services to local electricity companies,
namely, the Companhia Eletrificadora de Cataguases (CEC), the Companhia
Mineira de Eletrificacao (CME), Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais (CEMIG),
and the smaller electricity cooperatives located in the towns of Leopoldina,
Muriae and Uba.



- 20 -
Land Reclamation
3.14      Under the project 8,000 ha of individually-owned, poorly drained
valley bottom land (varzeas) would be reclaimed by means of irrigation,
drainage, land leveling, and flood control, as appropriate. At the farmer's
request, individual subprojects would be prepared by RURALMINAS, with ACAR
assistance, and would then be implemented by RURALMINAS. Local operational
units would be established by RURALMINAS for land surveying and engineering
design of individual subprojects; these units would be fully equipped with
engineering instruments and vehicles. In addition, field mechanized teams,
each consisting of an agricultural technician and a tractor driver, would be
established for project works; these teams would also be fully equipped.
The project would finance:
(a) RURALMINAS investments in (i) equipment for the operational
units (engineering equipment and vehicles) and for the
mechanized teams (tractors and implements); (ii) land surveying
and engineering design for individual subprojects; and (iii)
construction of flood control structures, when required.
(b) Long-term credit to farmers in order to pay RURALMINAS for
(i) layout and supervision; (ii) irrigation and drainage works;
and (iii) land leveling.
Thus, RURALMINAS would recover from the farmers the cost of layout and
supervision and the cost of mechanized team operations including depreciation
of equipment for renovation in due course; but the cost of surveying, design,
and flood control structures would not be recovered by RURALMINAS. Conse-
quently, farmers' costs of land reclamation are expected to be substantially
lower than those charged by private companies for the same services. Prelim-
inary estimates indicate that final payment by farmers might be around 70% of
the market prices for similar services. Reclaimed varzeas would be intensively
cultivated with rice during the rainy season and with beans, forage, and
vegetables -- under irrigation -- during the dry season. Not all of the area
is expected to be double-cropped; intensity of only 175% is expected at full
development. On-farm incremental working capital needed to operate the
varzeas, once reclaimed, would be financed under the project agricultural
credit component. Specific varzeas to be reclaimed would be selected in
accordance with criteria already established and approved by the Bank. These
criteria include, among others, the availability of physical and financial
infrastructure, a favorable cost-benefit analysis, favorable agro-ecological
conditions for intensive high-value production, and a positive evaluation of
the entrepreneurial capabilities and commitment of the landowner.
Production Support Services
3.15      Agricultural Research.  A relatively small program of applied agri-
cultural research and demonstration (US$1.2 million) would be carried out
under the project, and the Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais
(EPAMIG), the state coordinating research agency, would be strengthened. The



- 21 -
latter would maintain close linkages with the Federal University of Vicosa,
one of Brazil's leading agricultural universities, which is located in the
project area, with the National Dairy Research Center and with the State
Extension Service (ACAR). In addition to the preparation and evaluation of
technological improvements, EPAMIG would assist ACAR with their training
courses and directly assist producers of the area through small on-farm
demonstration plots. The project would finance the cost of field trials,
staff salaries, operating costs, and the purchase of equipment, including
vehicles. This program is complementary to the basic commodities research
which the Bank is supporting through a recently approved loan to EMBRAPA.
3.16      Technical Assistance and Extension Services.  Agricultural advisory
services in the state are currently provided by ACAR. Although generally
efficient, ACAR's efforts have been mainly directed to the larger farmers of
the area, since the small ones generate (in the short term) relatively little
incremental production and smaller commissions. As is customary in Brazil,
ACAR receives a 2% fee from the banks for supervising loans and administering
credit generally. Hence there is an incentive to only service the larger
farmers with larger loans. To counter this bias, the project would provide
additional financing to ACAR to permit them to extend their services to small
farmers. Extension agents would assist farmers in preparing farm plans and
subloan requests and would supervise the subloans. At present ACAR provides
assistance to approximately 7,000 smaller farmers, but, since the project
envisages that more than three-and-a-half times that figure require assist-
ance, additional personnel are needed as well as the development of new
methods to deliver technical assistance. This would not be particularly
difficult as ACAR has a well-motivated and technically competent staff, and is
already experimenting with the group approach to extension work ("Grupo de
Adultos"). About two-thirds of the new staff required have already been
recruited, and are under intensive training with assistance provided by the
University of Vicosa and EPAMIG, particularly training in small farm technol-
ogy and small farmer communication systems. By June 1, 1977, ACAR would be
adequately staffed including the employment of approximately 150 additional
staff. ACAR would also expand its programs to assist farmers' families in
conjunction with health and education agencies in the area. The project would
provide US$10.3 million to finance the cost of new equipment, including
vehicles and incremental salaries and other operational costs during the
implementation period of the project.
3.17      To provide high-level technical and management assistance to the
government of the state, the project would finance a special program to be
carried out by the Instituto Latinoamericano de Planificacion (ILPES). It
would give technical assistance on agricultural cooperative management to
the Superintendencia de Cooperativismo (SUDECOOP), project management to
RURALMINAS, and project administration to the Secretaria de Planejamento
(SEPLAN). In addition, ILPES would provide on-the-job training for the
Project Unit in any areas that the project manager requests. A minimum of
300 expert-months would be applied to these ends. During negotiations,
assurances have been obtained that at least three experts for the program
will be selected and recruited not later than June 1, 1977.



- 22 -
3.18      Cooperatives.  The State Superintendencia de Cooperativismo (SUDECOOP)
is being strengthened and expanded. It would establish a new regional office
in the project area to (a) promote cooperation and encourage the formation
of cooperatives among small farmers; (b) provide technical assistance to
existing cooperatives; (c) organize training courses for cooperative managers
and administrators; and (d) offer courses to cooperative members, especially
on marketing and production. The basic idea would be to strengthen the small
farmer cooperative organization so that self-sustained development in the
area can be based on regional farmer-controlled institutions, i.e., agricul-
tural cooperatives. At present there are 31 cooperatives in Zona da Mata with
some 16,000 members.  A minimum goal would be to double this membership figure
by the end of the implementation period. The project would finance SUDECOOP's
investments and incremental operating costs during the five-year project imple-
mentation period, totaling an estimated US$1.8 million. In view of SUDECOOP's
past organization and staffing weaknesses, assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that SUDECOOP has been fully reorganized and
will be adequately staffed and financed for proper project implementation.
Social Services
3.19      The Second Plan for the Economic and Social Development of Minas
Gerais, 1976-1979, emphasizes the interrelationship between economic and
social development, as well as the need to promote social welfare concurrently
with the development of the economy. The State Government's strategy is,
therefore, one of balanced and integrated development based on community
participation. The health, education and training components of the project
would follow this approach. In total they represent some 12% of project
costs.   This is less than one-third of the original proposal by the State
Government, but is as much as the agencies concerned can implement. A con-
dition of disbursement of this component would be that the two most important
subconvenios (secondary agreements) between Health Secretariat (SES) and
FUNRURAL (Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural) and INAN, the National
Institute for Food and Nutrition, be signed and sent to the Bank.
3.20      Health Services.  The main characteristics of the health component
would be: (a) provision of approximately 275 simple health posts (Minipostos)
distributed throughout the project area; (b) low-cost health services;
(c) emphasis on preventive medicine and promotional activities; (d) strong
community participation in the organization, operation and financing of the
centers; (e) an effective mechanism for referral to higher levels of health
care; (f) intensive ongoing supervision and training activities; and (g) an
information system for monitoring/evaluating the health component of the
project. The proposed health component would have four service programs
(primary medical care, vaccination, sanitation, and nutrition) and two support
elements (training and administration). Details of each of these programs are
in the corresponding project files.
3.21      The basic objective of the primary medical care program would be to
deliver services not only to the immediate target group, but to the total rural
population. Priorities have been established placing groups in the following



- 23 -
order of importance: (a) pregnant women, (b) children under five years,
(c) children between 5 and 14 years, and (d) adults. By increased coverage
over time, at full development this program would reach 90% of the first two
priority groups (pregnant women and children under five years); 40% of school-
age children; and 25% of the last priority group (adults).
3.22      The proposed new health posts, of which eight are already in operation,
would provide disease control and prevention services (with special attention
to children and mothers), primary medical care for adults, vaccinations, basic
sanitation, nutrition services, health education, and would encourage coopera-
tion in community development. Each would be staffed by a health attendant,
locally recruited. The project would finance a total of 275 health posts.
It is estimated that 40% of them could operate in existing or planned schools,
or in municipality buildings; 30% in upgraded houses bought by the Health
Secretariat (SES) from the community; and 30% in new structures. 1/ Each unit
would service an estimated 2,500 people at an average of three health posts per
municipality.
3.23      In addition to the health posts, more sophisticated services would be
provided by a number of health centers ("Centro de Saude") staffed by a
trained auxiliary nurse and a part-time physician who would also provide
technical and administrative supervision for the health posts. The project
would upgrade 63 existing centers and construct and equip 36 new ones. Each
health center would support an average of three health posts.
3.24      The purpose of the vaccination program would be to diminish the
incidences of communicable diseases in the area. A simple information
service would be required and would be established to maintain an efficient
epidemiological surveillance program. Routine vaccination activities would
be carried out by the health attendants at the health posts through special
campaigns, with support from the health center staff. The total cost of the
component is estimated at some US$100,000, with 80% being the cost of vaccine.
Although this program represents only a small percentage of project costs, it
is a very cost-effective way to improve the well-being of the population and
one likely to have a substantial impact on the productivity of the local people.
3.25      The objective of the sanitation program would be to diminish
morbidity and mortality from diseases caused by poor sanitary conditions.
Priority localities would be selected within the area, namely those with the
poorest sanitation facilities and those with a high incidence of waterborne
communicable diseases. As part of the overall health-sanitation state program
the project would aim to install 18,000 water filters and 15,000 pit latrines
for a total coverage of approximately 12% of the local families. Additional
drainage and other sanitary improvements would serve about 42,000 people.
However, these figures are considered minimal goals. Coverage would be
1/   These centers are simple units of some 60 m2 constructed according to
local standards and normally divided into three rooms.



- 24 -
increased according to community response. In addition the public health
authorities, such as Superintendencia de Companhias de Saude Publica (SUCAM),
would develop a program for the investigation of schistosomiasis foci, espe-
cially in the varzeas of the F-'ject area. Costs of the sanitation programs
would be approximately US$800,000.
3.26      The objective of the nutrition program would be to prevent and
diminish caloric and protein malnutrition, especially in children under five,
and those exhibiting II and III grades of malnutrition on the Gomez scale. 1/
Priorities have been defined in the following order: (a) pregnant women,
(b) lactating mothers, (c) children under three years, and (d) three- or
four-year-old children who are undernourished. Strategies would include:
(a) diet supplementation using food purchased in the project area, and
(b) nutrition education. Food supplementation would be based on regional
products, according to preliminary nutritional standards fixed by the
Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao (INAN). Additionally, community
and family gardens would be promoted in coordination with ACAR, while nutri-
tional education would be provided through the cooperation of ACAR and the
Education Secretariat of the State Government.
3.27      The objectives of the health training component would be to train
some 800 health attendants, health center staff, and ACAR supervisors. They
would receive a basic training course of 240 to 300 hours, plus periodic
refresher courses, 2/ utilizing experience and materials developed by the
Fundacao Servicos Especiais de Saude Publica (FSESP). Personnel from the
health centers would be trained in organization and referral procedures,
while their supervisors would be trained mainly in program management.
Training is expected to take place at (a) regional education centers, (b) the
Vicosa University extension and training center, (c) the Hermantina Beraldo
Foundation (a nurses school), and (d) selected health posts and health centers.
The organization and execution of the training component would be the respon-
sibility of the Human Resources Development Unit in the General Health Super-
intendency of Secretaria Estadual de Saude (SES). Total cost of the training
program is estimated at some US$200,000.
3.28      Education.  This component, to be executed jointly by the State
Secretariat for Education and ACAR, would basically aim to teach the local
population to make more efficient use of their existing resources. The core
activities would include assistance to families in solving economic and social
problems, improvement of living conditions and enlistment of community parti-
cipation. The strategy would be to assist Government efforts in:
1/   Grade I corresponds to least severe malnutrition, Grade II to more
serious and Grade III to most serious malnutrition.
2/   Training would be in such subjects as anatomy and physiology fundamentals,
basic terminology, physiopathology and treatment of communicable diseases,
communication nursing techniques and application of pharmaceuticals, vital
signs, laboratory tests, maternal and child care, sanitation, nutrition,
health education, and registration of vital statistics and services.



- 25 -
(a) shifting the emphasis of the role of the rural school, making
it a multipurpose center for the provision of adult education
services, and an active center in which different activities
of interest to the various population groups of the rural
community may be conducted;
(b) expanding and improving rural primary education;
(c) expanding agricultural and technical training opportunities
by constructing, furnishing and equipping a common facilities
center at Muriae;
(d) designing, preparing, and testing plans, methods, techniques
and teaching material for vocational training and nonoccupa-
tional training;
(e) disseminating, by means of school and out-of-school education
activities, basic knowledge of agricultural technology, farm
management, rural organization, and family education; and
(f) developing better education management capabilities by means
of technical assistance programs.
3.29      Community Learning Centers and Common Facilities Center.  The
project would provide school facilities and training opportunities in the
project area by establishing community learning centers (CLC) and one common
facilities center (CFC). These are designed to bring about the integration
of formal and nonformal education and training activities. At least 28
community learning centers with 6,400 places for students attending rural
primary classes and nonformal vocational training courses would be con-
structed, furnished, and equipped. The estimated cost for this component is
about US$4,875,000. The CLCs would include: five classrooms each for the
primary grades, a library and administrative facilities, a multipurpose
area, a workshop and office facilities for rural development agencies such as
extension, health and cooperatives. The CLCs would provide facilities for
occupational training, administrative facilities for rural development agencies
(extension, health and cooperatives) and serve as centers for the mobile units
operated by the extension and cooperative agencies.
3.30      The criteria used for determining the tentative number and location
of the CLCs included: (a) adequate target population within a radius of 50 km;
(b) homogeneity of farm enterprises; (c) existing rural development agencies;
and (d) an imbalance between suitable primary school facilities and school-
age children. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that community learning centers would be located in terms of inter alia the
following criteria:
(i) Walking distance of the present catchment rural
areas to be served;



- 26 -
(ii) Proper relationship between the proposed and existing physical
facilities (such as health centers);
(iii)  Large enough size and preferably regular in shape; and
(iv)  Topography and soil conditions suitable for construction.
3.31      The project would also provide for a larger multipurpose center at
Muriae.  It would have a capacity of 350 student places to accommodate about
2,180 students (grades 9 through 12 and out-of-school youths) in multiple
shifts. The estimated cost of this subcomponent is US$1 million. The center
would primarily train semi-skilled and fully skilled artisans and technicians.
The instruction program would enable about 70% utilization of all facilities
during 12- to 14-hour day when the program is in full operation. The center
would employ about 20 full-time teachers for day classes and an additional
20 part-time teachers for evening classes.
3.32      Cooperative Training Program.  The project would provide training,
equipment and supplies for an expanded farmer cooperative training program
(nine additional personnel) conducted by the Superintendencia de Cooperati-
vismo of the Secretariat of Agriculture (SUDECOOP). The estimated cost of
this component would be about US$180,000. SUDECOOP already provides limited
training to the administrators of cooperatives. The larger staff and addi-
tional equipment would, however, enable SUDECOOP to provide some training
for 10,000 additional beneficiaries in five years. Assurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations that by June 1, 1977, SUDECOOP through
SEPLAN would prepare a cooperative farmer training program acceptable to the
Government and the Bank (para 3.18).
3.33      Pre-service and In-service Training.  This training component
would provide 25 vocational teachers and pre-service and in-service training
for 200 agricultural extension personnel.  The total cost for this subcom-
ponent would be about US$333,000. The 25 vocational teachers at the common
facilities center at Muriae would receive 240 hours of instruction. Because
of the volume of activities and their nature, a considerable expansion of
ACAR's regular staff would be required to meet the needs of the farmer and
rural youth training programs, i.e., one professional extension agent per
400 farm families. Each of the extension agents and technicians would receive
30 days pre-service training and 15 days in-service training during the sub-
sequent years of the project. Assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that by June 1, 1977, a training program acceptable to
the Bank for professional and middle-level agricultural technicians would be
prepared by ACAR.
3.34      Farmer and Rural Youth Training.  ACAR would provide functional
training for about 21,000 farmers and occupational training for about 15,000
rural young men and women between 15 and 21 years old. It is expected that
the small farmers (15,400) participating in the farmer training program would
average about three courses and the sharecroppers (5,600) about two courses.



- 27-
The costs to ACAR for conducting this training (excluding salaries) is esti-
mated to be about US$24 per farmer trainee including per diem and other trans-
portation expenses for the agricultural technicians. The total estimated
cost for this component is US$1,285,000, and in the cost tables it has been
included under "technical assistance," which mainly refers to ACAR financing.
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that the
following would be prepared and submitted for Bank approval by June 1, 1977:
(a) criteria for defining the training needs of farmers and young adults;
(b) training programs for farmers and young adults that would meet these
needs, and (c) criteria for evaluating the success of the training program.
3.35      Technical Assistance for Education.  The project would provide tech-
nical assistance on educational methods including 20 man-years of specialist
services and 15 man-years of fellowships. Four man-years of specialist
services would be provided by non-Brazilians and 16 man-years by Brazilians.
Five man-years of fellowship training in educational administration and plan-
ning would take place in institutions in other countries and 10 man-years in
Brazil. The estimated cost of this subcomponent is US$700,000. Assurances
were obtained from the Government during negotiations that not later than
June 1, 1977, SEPLAN would provide for Bank approval details of its plans
for the selection of technical assistance specialists and their local counter-
parts for purposes of carrying out the education component.
Administration and Evaluation Services
3.36      Administration.  Implementation would be carried out by existing
institutions under the coordination of Fundacao Rural Mineira (RURALMINAS).
Legally, each participating agency would be linked to RURALMINAS through an
agreement ("convenio"), which would specify the scope, organization and
financing of each specific subprogram. Education and health components,
which demand further interagency coordination within the subsector, have set
up their own small coordinating units and, as such, are dealing with RURALMINAS
as a single program rather than as several separate efforts. Policy coordi-
nation would be provided by the State Planning Office (SEPLAN) but day-to-day
operation would remain with the executing agency, RURALMINAS. A special proj-
ect unit has been established within RURALMINAS and a project manager was
appointed on June 1, 1976. This unit is staffed by six full-time professionals
and a small group of support personnel. Costs of project administration for
the first five years of implementation are estimated at US$1.7 million.
3.37      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Project progress would be continuously
evaluated by the University of Vicosa (located in the center of Zona da Mata)
through its Department of Rural Development and Economics and with the coope-
ration of ACAR. The basis of the analysis would rest on a determination of
the amount of developmental progress achieved, as measured by comparing the
preloan situation against the current situation in each sample area. The
main factors to be evaluated would include (a) annual net farm income; (b) the
change in net worth; (c) the gross value of annual farm production, adjusted
for year-to-year changes in inventory stocks and home-produced feed;
(d) selected key productivity items relevant to each major type of farm in



- 28 -
physical and financial terms; and (e) social benefits. In addition, close
contact with the Project Unit in RURALMINAS would be maintained so as to pro-
vide proper feedback on day-to-day and project management matters. This
independent information would be sent to SEPLAN and to the Bank simultaneously
every six months. In addition, a continuous evaluation of the results of the
education program would be carried out, including the design and operation of
a student tracer system. Costs of this component are estimated at US$1 mil-
lion. At negotiations assurances were obtained that proper coordination
exists between the Monitoring Unit and RURALMINAS-SEPLAN Project Unit and
that suitable arrangements for evaluation reporting to the Bank would be
implemented.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.1       The total project cost is estimated at US$139.0 million, which
includes a 15% physical contingency and price contingency of 31% of baseline
costs. 1/ Cost estimates are summarized in the table overleaf. The proposed
loan of US$42 million would be made to the State of Minas Gerais at the
current Bank lending rate at the time of loan approval for 17 years, including
five years of grace. The loan would finance the foreign exchange component
(US$20.8 million or 15% of project costs) plus US$21.2 million of local costs,
for a total of 30% of total costs. This compares with 40% financed under the
only other rural development project cofinanced by the Bank in Brazil -- Rio
Grande do Norte.
1/   Costs have been estimated at appraisal prices, and price contingencies
have been calculated separately for equipment, civil works and credit,
and miscellaneous, according to Bank procedures. Assumed annual price
increases in dollars have been:
Civil Works    Equipment    Credit and Other*
------------------(%)__________----------
Year 1                  13              9                 9
Year 2                  12              8                 8
Year 3                  12              8                 7
Year 4                  12              8                 7
Year 5                  10              7                 7
*"Other" includes local supplies, some incremental salaries and
other operating costs for productive support services, social
infrastructure, administration and monitoring.



- 29 -
BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Costs
(US$ miiHon)
Baseline      Foreign
Costs     Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total         Z          Cost  %
A. Agricultural Credit
Annual crops                      10.47        1.23      11.7        11.2         10.5
Maize                            4.83        0.57       5.4
Beans                            2.15        0.25       2.4
Rice                             3_49        0.41       3.9
Vegetables                         3.13        0.37       3.5                     10.6
Horticultural                    1.34        0.16       1.5
Tobacco                          1.79        0.21       2.0
Semipermanent                      7.13        0.87       8.0                     10.8
Sugarcane                        6.77        0.83       7.6
Forage                           0.36        0.04       0.4
Permanent                         16.33        1.97      18.3        17.5         10.8
Fruit                            3.86        0.54       4.4
Forestry                        12.47        1.43      13.9
Livestock                         14.55        4.15      18.7        17.9         22.2
Dairy                           12.86        3.84      16.7
Swine                            1.69        0.31       2.0
Rural Electrification              4.96        1.24       6.2         5.9         20.0
59-.-5      9-.83     637         63.6         14.8
B. Land Reclamation
VYrzea rehabilitation            5.46        1.44       6.9         6.6         20.7
C. Production Support
Agricultural research and
demonstration                  1.02        0.18       1.2                     15.0
Technical assistance and
extension                      8.75        1.55      10.3                     15.0
Cooperative development
and training                   1.53        0.27       1.8                     15.0
Nurseries and forestry
development                    1.36        0.24       1.6         1.4         15.0
12.66        2.24     14.9        14.3         15.0
D. Social Infrastructure
Education                        7.06        0.94       8.0                     11.8
Health                           4.85        0.65       5.5                     11.8
11.91        1.S9     13.5        12.9         11.8
E. Administration and Evaluation
Project administration           1.46        0.24       1.7                     14.0
Monitoring and evaluation        0.86        0.14       1.0                     14.0
-rT5        70.38     -T77          2.6         14.0
F.  TOTAL BASELINE COSTS               88.92       15.48    104.4       100.0%         14.8%
G. Physical Continencies (15% of
civil wo costs)               1.96        0.34       2.3         2.2%        14.8%
H.  Price Contingencies                27.48        4.82     3233        30.1%        14.8%
I.  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              118.36       20.64    139.0        132.0%        14.8%
December 1976



- 30 -
Financing
4.2       The borrower would be the State of Minas Gerais.  The Federative
Government would guarantee the loan. Financing of project costs would be
shared as tabulated below. Assurances that adequate counterpart funding
would be available for timely execution of the project were obtained from
both State and Federal government at negotiations.
--------------------------US$ million------------------------
Farmers    %      Government    %       IBRD        _      Total
up to ...
Credit                     5.5    8.3       41.0       61.7      19.9     30.0       66.4
Land Reclamation           0.7   10.2         4.1      59.8       2.1      30.0       6.9
Productive Support          -       -        10.4      70.0       4.5     30.0       14.9
Social Infrastructure      0.6    4.5        8.8       65.5       4.1     30.0       13.5
Administration/Evaluation  -        -         1.9      70.0       0.8      30.0       2.7
Physical Contingencies                        1.6      70.0       0.7      30.0       2.3
Price Contingencies                         22.6       70.0       9.7     30.0       32.3
Total                 6.8    4.9       90.4       65.1     41.8      30.0      139.0
To ensure rapid implementation of the project, ACAR has already started to
recruit staff. This has also been timed to coincide with the end of the
university academic year, i.e., January and February 1976. In addition, plans
are already in hand to prepare nurseries for the propagation of eucalyptus
seedlings for distribution to farmers wishing to plant trees, and, since the
demand for seasonal credit (the largest project component) occurs in June
through September, retroactive financing of not more than US$3.8 million equiva-
lent is proposed to cover eligible expenditures made after June 1, 1976, but
before the loan is signed. 1/
Procurement
4.3       Farm inputs would be procured by individual farmers in small amounts
through local trade channels. Items such as land reclamation, strengthening of
productive support services, expansion and improvement of education and health
infrastructure, project administration and evaluation would involve only minor
construction works, which would be of varied design and be geographically
dispersed. Consequently, they would be constructed under a combination of
1/   The decision meeting approved retroactive financing of US$2 million
equivalent. However, due to delays in the estimated Board presentation
date, an increased amount up to US$3.8 million is being proposed, since
project implementation is going ahead of schedule in Brazil.



- 31 -
self-help, force account and local bidding. All contracts for civil works
would be awarded to prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Since most civil works are of small size and scattered throughout the project
area, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, but they would
not be excluded from bidding. Brazil has a competitive local construction
industry capable of carrying out the project. Various types of equipment,
including vehicles, which are locally produced and are readily available,
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Furniture and equipment would be grouped to form sizable packages for bulk
purchasing whenever possible. However, items that cannot be grouped in bid
packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is estimated that procurement on this
basis would not exceed 15% of total cost of equipment and furniture.
Disbursement
4.4       The loan would be disbursed against 30% of expenditures or subloans.
Disbursements would be made to the coordinating fiscal agency, SEPLAN, against
withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditure initiated by the
various implementing agencies under the project and certified by the Project
Unit in RURALMINAS. Supporting documentation for credit, salaries, and
administrative expenses would not be submitted to the Bank but would be
retained by the coordinating fiscal agency and made availabe for inspection by
the Bank during the course of project supervision missions. However, standard
documentation covering permanent fixtures, equipment, and installations will
be submitted to the Bank. Since the implementation period is five years, loan
disbursements are also expected to occur over about five years. The estimated
disbursements schedule is presented overleaf.
Phasing of Investment
4.5       Investments, excluding contingencies, would be phased as follows:
Year:         1        2          3           4          5        Total
----------------------(US$ million)----------------------
Civil Works           0.40      1.34       2.39        5.70       6.61       16.44
Equipment             2.07      2.04       0.82        1.36       0.89        7.19
Credit                9.00    11.00       13.00       15.00      18.40       66.40
Other                 2.83      1.20       1.60        2.80      5.95        14.38
14.30    15.58      17.81       24.86      31.85       104.40



- 32 -
BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT
DISBURSEMENT TABLE
Quarter       Disbursed            Cumulative           Balance
Bank Fiscal Year      Ending      During Quarter       Amount Disbursed        Of Loan
--------------------------------US$ Million---------------------------------
1977                  Dec. 31            -                     -                42.0
Mar. 31          3.8                   3.8               38.2
June 30          2.1                   5.9               36.1
1978                  Sept. 30          1.4                   7.3               34.7
Dec. 31          3.0                  10.3               31.7
Mar. 31          1.5                  11.8               30.2
June 30          0.8                  12.6               29.4
1979                  Sept. 30          1.7                  14.3               27.7
Dec. 31          3.4                  17.7               24.3
Mar. 31          1.6                  19.3               22.7
June 30          0.9                  20.2               21.8
1980                  Sept. 30          2.7                 22.9                19.1
Dec. 31          4.1                  27.0               15.0
Mar. 31          2.4                  29.4                12.6
June 30          1.2                  30.6               11.4
1981                  Sept. 30          3.1                 33.7                 8.3
Dec. 31          5.3                  39.0                3.0
Mar. 31          2.6                  41.6                0.4
June 30          0.4                  42.0                   0
Accounts and Audits
4.6       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
under the project, which would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, according to standard Brazilian practice. The Project
Unit would maintain a composite set of accounts of all expenditures under the
project, together with statements of project expenditures by participating
agencies. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that copies of the
audited accounts of project expenditures of the various agencies and the
Project Unit would be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of
each fiscal year. It would be the Project Unit's responsibility to supply the
necessary coordination to achieve this goal. Assurances to this effect have
been obtained at negotiations.



- 33 -
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General Administrative Arrangements
5.1       The institutional arrangements of the proposed project would be
complex since 39 state and federal institutions would participate in project
implementation.  However, there is ample evidence--and especially in Minas
Gerais--that the various agencies are capable of working in unison toward a
common goal once the chain of command is clear.  Moreover, the Government of
Minas Gerais has a reputation for having a competent public sector and has for
a long time been able to manage large and complex projects with sophisticated
management techniques. These arrangements were formalized in April 1975 with
the creation of the sectoral coordination programs called "operational systems"
(sistemas operacionais"). 1/ Eleven of them were created, all directly subordi-
nated to the governor of the state through the Secretaria de Planejamento
(SEPLAN). In the project, five of them would be participating: Agriculture,
Finance, Health, Education, and Public Works. Of these, Agriculture (Sistema
Operacional de Agricultura, Pecuaria e Abastecimento - SOAPA) would carry most
of the burden. Furthermore the Bank has requested and obtained the full set
of legal agreements ("convenios") between the participating institutions which
since June 1, 1976, have been active in project implementation. By December
1976, after the first six months of operation, not less than US$12 million
would have been spent, at least 100 new extensionists hired and trained, and
full reorganization of SUDECOOP accomplished.
5.2       The project would be implemented by existing institutions coordi-
nated and controlled by SEPLAN. There would be two levels of coordination,
the policy level and the executive level. SEPLAN would be responsible for
policy decisions, while day-to-day operational management would be the
responsibility of a project unit in the Fundacao Rural Mineira (RURALMINAS)
based on Belo Horizonte, the state capital.  The manager of the Project
Unit has already been appointed and would be under the direct command of
the Director General of RURALMINAS. The manager of the Project Unit would
be responsible for integrating the detailed planning necessary for project
implementation, and would coordinate the actions of individual institutions
participating in the project. Part of his staff would be stationed in a
Field Unit in Vicosa headed by a Field Unit Manager. The Field Unit would
be staffed by six full-time technicians and a small group of support person-
nel. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. In addition,
to improve coordination between the productive and social components, specific
sector coordinators have been appointed for both the health and education
components. Each would report directly to the State Secretary involved and
would coordinate his activities with the manager of the Project Unit. The
legal structure has been established around a set of operational agreements
("convenios") covering the operations of the different agencies engaged in the
project which have already been signed and sent to the Bank. The Federal
1/   Decree No. 17113 of April 1975.



- 34 -
University of Vicosa would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation and
would report independently to SEPLAN and the Bank.
Operational Agreements
5.3       Since the Project Unit would be located within RURALMINAS, opera-
tional agreements ("convenios") would be worked out between RURALMINAS and
each specific executing agency. The Bank has studied the proposed procedures
and the revised drafts of the 10 convenios and, based upon RURALMINAS's past
experience in dealing with this type of operational agreement, believes that
the proposed arrangements would be a proven and efficient way of mobilizing
the different institutions engaged in the project. The list of "convenios"
received are as follows:
(a) For project administration: between Secretaria de
Planejamento (SEPLAN) and Secretaria Estadual da
Agricultura (SEA) represented by RURALMINAS;
(b) For health: between RURALMINAS and Secretaria Estadual
de Saude (SES);
(c) For education: between RURALMINAS and Secretaria Estadual
da Educacao (SEE);
(d) For technical assistance and extension: between RURALMINAS
and the State Extension Service (ACAR). This convenio would
include the relationship of ACAR with other participating
agencies such as SUDECOOP (cooperatives), IEF (forestry),
EPAMIG (research), DAE and CEMIG (rural electrification),
SES (health), SEE (education) and the rural credit agencies;
(e) For project management and cooperative administration: between
SEPLAN and Instituto Latinoamericano de Planificacion Economica
y Social (ILPES);
(f) For research: between RURALMINAS and Empresa de Pesquisa
Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais (EPAMIG);
(g) For forestry: between RURALMINAS and Instituto Estadual de
Florestas (IEF);
(h) For cooperatives: between RURALMINAS and Superintendencia
de Cooperativismo (SUDECOOP);
(i)  For rural electrification:  between RURALIINAS and Diretoria
de Aguas e Eletrificacao (DAE);
(j) For the Monitoring Unit: between RURALMINAS and the University
of Vicosa;



- 35 -
Small Farmer and Sharecropper Participation in the Credit Program
5.4       As has been mentioned before, one of the main characteristics of
this project is that it attempts to reach a significant number of small
farmers and sharecroppers, mostly through a supervised credit program. Under
present circumstances, these project beneficiaries have had limited access
to credit, mainly because they lack adequate real collateral and because,
being small operations, they have not represented an attractive financial
return, either for the extension agency, which operates on the basis of a
2% commission on loans, or for the banks, because of relatively high costs
and low returns. The project is attempting to change the situation through
direct funding of ACAR so that it would not have to depend for revenue on
the meager commission which would be obtained from serving this particular
clientele. In addition, assurances have been obtained from the Central Bank
and participating banks that lending to these farmers will be encouraged
and assisted vigorously. A set of contracts between SEPLAN and the partici-
pating banks on this and other related matters is a condition of effectiveness
of the loan. In order for the IBRD to be able to monitor progress in reaching
these beneficiaries, it has been agreed at negotiations that an annual review
is to be submitted to the Bank on November 30 each year and a specific target
for number of loans to sharecroppers has been established so that they would
increase by about 2,000 annually from at least 1,000 in 1976 to about 9,000
by 1980. Furthermore, it has been agreed that at least US$5 million equival-
ent of the loans commitment made under the project and an aggregate amount
of US$30.0 million during the period 1976-80 will be made to farmers owning
less than 50 ha and to sharecroppers. This mechanism seeks to ensure that
proper participation of the smallest among the small farmers will be achieved.
However, since this is a field where there has been only limited experience in
Brazil and where a number of bureaucratic obstacles to implementation of poli-
cies of this nature exist, close supervision of progress in this direction
and a firm Bank policy would be required to ensure participation of target
beneficiaries.
Credit Administration
5.5       Agricultural credit represents about 64% of total project costs
and would constitute the major source of counterpart funds. Nine banks
operate within the project area, of which four (one federal and three state)
would participate as financial agents for the delivery of credit funds to
farmers. These are the Banco do Brasil (federal), the Caixa Economica do
Estado de Minas Gerais (state), the Banco de Credito Real do Estado de
Minas Gerais (state), and the Banco do Estado de Minas Gerais (state).
5.6       Banco do Brasil, with 16 branches, accounting for 11% of the 146
branch offices maintained by all nine banks operating in the area, would
handle about 70% of the credit requirements, most of which would be funded
by the Central Bank, with the Caixa Economica Estadual (with 55 branch offices
in the area) having a greater participation than the other two state banks.
As a condition of effectiveness of the loan, the Banco do Brasil would enter
into agreement with the State Government whereby it undertook to participate



- 36 -
in the project on terms and conditions agreed with the Bank. Project activ-
ities would be concentrated on the small- and medium-sized low-income farmer,
but ordinary banking practices tend to give these farmers a lower priority
than the larger enterprises, who can offer larger collaterals. Therefore,
certain adjustments in rural credit policies and procedures would be required
to ensure that the incremental credit funds generated by the project go to
target farmers (para 5.14).
5.7       At negotiations state and federal authorities have agreed that the
agricultural credit policies and procedures that should be followed during
implementation include the following items:
(a) Maximum credit limit and size of farms to be financed, (para 5.8);
(b) Agricultural credit beneficiaries and technical assistance,
(para 5.10);
(c) Basis for establishing incremental credit, (para 5.11); and
(d) Subsidy for reforestation, (para 5.12).
5.8       Maximum Credit Limit and Size of Farms Financed.  Even though 89% of
the project beneficiaries can be considered poor small farmers, these figures
hide significant disparities in the availability of resources and potential
productivity as they range from the landless sharecropper to the farmer with
99 ha of rainfed land, of which 8 or 9 could be productive varzea soils. For
this reason, it has been agreed that at least 33% of the credit would go to
the farmers with 50 ha or less. This limit could be revised upwards if after
two or three years of project implementation there is a need to increase the
allocation of resources to that particular segment of the project population.
ACAR credit specialists feel, however, that based on land availability (see
para 3.6) and the expected rate of credit take-up among sharecroppers and
very small farmers, the credit of allocation proposed is adequate. In addi-
tion, a ceiling on loans, or aggregate of loans to the same farmer, of 150
times the "reference value" 1/ (about US$7,800 in 1976) has been imposed),
the only exceptions being some forestry and land reclamation loans described
in the next paragraph. Assurances from the Government to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
5.9       Since reforestation is the second major component in terms of
credit funds allocated, fully justified by a reasonable 18% financial rate
of return and ecological side benefits (soil and water conservation), and
because the slow-maturing production cycle makes such activities less attrac-
tive to the small farmers, it was considered desirable to include a limited
1/   The "reference value" is an official correction factor periodically
established by the Government of Brazil pursuant to Law No. 6205 of
April 29, 1975, to replace the monthly salary as monetary correction
factor.



- 3 7 -
number of larger farmers. In early 1976 it was agreed with SEPLAN, ACAR, and
the Instituto Estadual de Florestas (IEF) that not more than 500 such farmers
with 100 to 200 ha would be included. It is felt that including larger
farmers is justified since they would contribute in the initial stage of
execution of the reforestation program by promoting the creation of basic
infrastructure and supplying know-how, such as in the propagation of planting
material and the organization of technical assistance, as well as by having
demonstration effects for the smaller farmers. It is estimated that not more
than 10,000 ha, or one-fourth of the total area to be reforested, would be
planted by this group of farmers.  Another exception to the ceiling described
in the previous paragraph has been established for half the number of loans
for land reclamation. For those selected beneficiaries the ceiling has been
raised to 180 times the reference value (some US$10,000) in order to permit
rehabilitation of valuable varzea lands when infrastructural investment is
particularly heavy.
5.10      Agricultural Credit Beneficiaries and Technical Assistance.  Agri-
cultural credit beneficiaries would own less than 100 ha (except those who
would receive credit for reforestation (para 5.4) or be sharecroppers
operating less than 20 ha. Such borrowers would receive technical assistance
from ACAR on an individual and/or group basis. All loans made to these farmers
would require prior approval by ACAR. Monthly reports would be submitted by
ACAR to SEPLAN, stating the value of loans actually disbursed, and SEPLAN
would promptly send them to IBRD to obtain reimbursement on 30% of the incre-
mental credit lent. Participating banks would also report similar information
directly to SEPLAN each month for control and cross-checking purposes.
5.11      Basis for Establishing Incremental Credit.  The agricultural credit
component reimbursed by the Bank would be 30% of the incremental credit deli-
vered to project target farmers. The Bank's reimbursement would be based on
the incremental credit disbursed in order to ensure that there would be a real
addition to credit funds allocated by participating banks in the area and not
merely a substitution of sources of funds. Incremental project credit has
been defined as the value of loans disbursed by the participating financial
agents to farmers with less than 100 ha to finance one or several of the 13
production project components over and above a preestablished baseline. This
baseline was agreed originally to be the average 1974 and 1975 annual US
dollar value of credit granted by the same four banks, in the Zona da Mata, to
the aforementioned types of beneficiaries and components. On the basis of
sample surveys and analyses of banking statistics undertaken by both the
appraisal and post-appraisal missions, this was estimated at US$26 million.
At negotiations Government indicated that a baseline of US$26 million was not
now appropriate because it was anticipated that severe credit restrictions
would be imposed nationally, and there was also recent evidence that in the
past some credit earmarked for agricultural purposes had been directed else-
where. It was therefore agreed that the baseline should be US$18 million. It
was also agreed that to ensure that the objectives of the project be fulfilled,
the Federal Government would not impose credit restrictions that would inhibit
the participating banks from lending up to US$36 million per annum (i.e., the
baseline of US$18 million plus the incremental credit expected to be lent
under the project, which is in line with estimated demand).



- 38 -
5.12      Subsidy for Reforestation.  To attract the low-income farmer to
this long-term investment, special incentives or subsidies would be required.
It has therefore been agreed that a subsidy equivalent up to the income tax
credit which the large investors can claim would be channeled to the small
farmers, who engage in reforestation activities through free planting material
and technical assistance, preferential prices on certain inputs, and financial
grants if need be.
5.13      Lending Conditions.  The project credit component would be incre-
mental credit as defined in para 5.11. It would finance up to 100% of the
investment and operating costs of all eligible on-farm activities.  Banco
Central and Banco do Brasil would rediscount the subloans disbursed by parti-
cipating banks. Interest rates of 15% p.a. would be charged on short-term
subloans larger than 50 times the minimum monthly salary for Minas Gerais,
currently Cr$ 26,640 or US$3,134. For smaller subloans, the interest rate
would be 13% p.a. except when seeds and pesticides are financed, for which no
interest would be charged. Subloans for investment purposes would be for 5 to
12 years, including two years' grace, depending on the kind of investment.
The interest rates would be 7% p.a. without indexing for sugarcane with par-
tial indexing for the other purposes. 1/ Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the Bank would be promptly informed of any modification in interest
rates. Other modifications would require Bank approval. The unindexed and
partially indexed credit would result in negative real interest rates to the
farmer, but the beneficiaries would be small farmers from the lowest income
groups and the credit would be closely supervised by ACAR.
5.14      At present a major constraint to lending to small farmers is that
the latter cannot always provide the collateral required by the lending agen-
cies. To resolve this problem current procedures would be modified. Mort-
gages on land would not be required as collateral, but, instead, liens on
crops, livestock and farm machinery combined with sound farm planning and
technical assistance would be considered acceptable. To prevent the misallo-
cation of subsidized credit to the larger farmer, the size of each subloan
would be limited to a maximum equivalent to 150 times the reference value--
currently Cr$ 66,300 (US$7,800). In addition, limitations would be placed on
credit based on farm size (para. 5.8).
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
6.1       Existing marketing and storage arrangements in the project area
would be adequate to handle incremental agricultural production resulting
1/   Partial indexing is determined annually by the Monetary Council for all
long-term loans for investment purposes (10-12 years). In 1976 it was
determined that the monetary correction for 1975 was 8%.



- 39 -
from the project. Moreover, the strengthening of the existing cooperatives
(tobacco, milk and pigs) would enhance their ability to also market additional
production.
Maize
6.2       Most of the maize production in Zona da Mata (about 90%) is local-
ly consumed, with only 10% being "exported" to Belo Horizonte. However, about
30% of maize consumption in the area is seasonally imported from other states,
and growth projections of local population and of the poultry, swine and dairy
industries assure an ample market. Minimum sustained prices at US$5.65
(Cr$ 48) per 60-kg bag are around 12% to 15% below actual market prices.
Rice
6.3       Under the project, rice production in the area would probably in-
crease about 24%, but, since the project area has to import about 20% of its
rice needs, due to the higher capita consumption, there should be no major
problem in marketing the incremental production. The minimum guarantee price
is US$15.29 (Cr$ 130) per 52-kg bag and actual prices paid to farmers have
been around Cr$ 145 to Cr$ 160. Some 102 rice mills operate in the Muriae
area, processing, at half capacity, about 4,000 bags per day; hence, incre-
mental production should cause no milling problems.
Beans
6.4       The Zona da Mata is a major bean producing area in the state.  Some
70% of its production is consumed locally, at the rate of 24.8 kg per capita
per year, and the rest goes to Rio de Janeiro. To meet local requirements in
between harvests, the Zona da Mata must import beans from other states.
Growing local demand, coupled with decreased production in other areas due to
disease problems, assure an extended market for beans produced under the
project. Prices are 10% to 15% above the official minimum prices, and storage
facilities are readily available throughout the area.
Tobacco
6.5       Present production of twist tobacco, which is utilized for chewing
and handmade cigarettes, is meeting marketing difficulties owing to competi-
tion from manufactured cigarettes. Therefore, flue-cured tobacco grown
instead of twist tobacco would find a growing demand form the cigarette manu-
facturing industry. Exportadora Catarinense de Fumos, a company established
in the State of Santa Catarina, is operating in the project area and it would
purchase the entire production of leaf tobacco. Although prices of twist to-
bacco (Cr$ 10 to Cr$ 15 per kg) are higher than those for leaf tobacco (Cr$ 5
to Cr$ 6 per kg), the higher yields of leaf tobacco compensate for lower prices,
providing at least similar income to the farmer but with an assured market.



- 40 -
Sugarcane
6.6       Some 1.35 million bags of sugar were produced in the project area
during 1974/75 agricultural year, representing 23% of the state quota of
6 million bags. About 50% of the local cane is used to produce sugar, the
rest being used to produce "cachaca" (an alcoholic drink), loaf sugar, and
molasses cake, mainly for local consumption. There are five sugar mills in
the area, whose total installed capacity is being increased by some 23%.
Sugar prices are fixed by the Instituto de Acucar e Alcool (IAA) and sugar
mills have to sell at the prices set although the export market would be more
profitable. Thus, Government taxes exports to subsidize local consumption.
Both the state and Zona da Mata have failed to produce their assigned quotas
in recent years so there is room for a sizable expansion of production.
Vegetables and Fruits
6.7       Because of its proximity to the largest urban centers of Brazil,
the project area has an advantage for the production of fruits and vegeta-
bles. Despite this, however, marketing studies indicate that a substantial
amount of both are imported into the area, the greatest volume being citrus--
about 5,000 tons per year. Some five to six middlemen usually participate
in the marketing of fruit and vegetables, causing high markups and price
margins. The consumer pays up to four times the price paid to the pro-
ducer. This situation may be gradually improved with the strengthening
of the cooperatives in Uba and Leopoldina, which started to market
perishable products with some success. There is also evidence in recent
years of a marked increase in credit demand for fruit and horticultural
crops. Transportation costs from the project area to Rio are lower than
those from the Sao Paulo production areas, giving it additional advantages.
Forestry
6.8       Wood in its various forms and forest by-products are in great
demand in the project area and it is expected to increase as a result of
expansion of the steel and dairy industries, which need poles for farm
buildings, firewood, charcoal and transmission poles. Demand for charcoal
alone, used primarily by the steel industry, is expected to increase 21%
in the next five years, and fence posts are already being trucked in from
500 km away. There are many forest industries in Minas Gerais, which
influence wood production and marketing in the project area, but most operate
at low capacity due to shortage of logs. There are two pulp and paper mills,
one in Cataguases and one in Juiz de Fora, also having difficulty in obtaining
pulpwood supply. Government officials expect the timber from the 40,000 ha of
plantations to be established under the project to alleviate the shortages so
no major marketing problem is foreseen.
Milk
6.9       The Zona da Mata is the second most important dairy region in Minas
Gerais, contributing about 16% of the state's total milk production--386



- 41 -
million liters annually. Out of 74,600 farm holdings in the project area,
there are around 26,000 milk producers, 60% of whom are associated with
milk marketing cooperatives. This, of course, reflects the comparative
advantages of the region because of topographic and climatological conditions
and explains the substantial amounts of credit allocated for its development
under the project. The goal is therefore to develop, modernize and expand
the present dairy production units rather than to create a new type of produc-
tion. There is a big demand for milk in the area as well as in the nearby
cities of Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro. Producer and consumer prices
have been controlled for over 20 years, but, for the last two years, they
have been somewhat liberalized and have reached a satisfactory level for
the producer. 1/ Milk marketing is reasonably well organized by milk coop-
eratives, private companies and intermediaries. Incremental milk production
under the project--about 35 million liters annually--would have sufficient
and adequate marketing outlets and processing capacity in the project area.
Swine
6.10      The State of Minas Gerais in general and Zona da Mata in particular
are short of pork for the internal market. The regional supply deficit is
presently about 6,700 tons annually, with about two-thirds of pigs slaugh-
tered in the area coming from other states. Increasing transportation costs,
however, should give the project area a comparative advantage over the south-
ern states. A producer may use one of four channels to market his fattened
pigs or pork meat: he may sell directly to the consumer, to a slaughter-
house, to an intermediary, or to a cooperative. Three pig processing coop-
eratives have been organized in the project area recently and are currently
marketing over 3,000 head monthly from about 135 pig farms.
VII. PRODUCTION, TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
7.1      Production would increase under the project as a result of:
(a) expansion of cropped areas through land reclamation (8,000 ha),
double cropping (6,000 ha of beans, vegetables and forage under
irrigation), intercropping (15,000 ha of beans intercropped
with maize), and substitution of 4,700 ha of pastures for fruit
trees;
(b) increased yields of crops on 65,800 ha (86,800 ha, cropped) of
selected areas, both new and existing (maize, 30,000 ha; beans,
18,500 ha; rice, 15,700 ha; sugarcane, 12,400 ha; tobacco,
3,000 ha; vegetables, 500 ha; fruit trees, 4,700 ha; and forage,
1/   See farm model 1.



- 42 -
2,000 ha) through the provision of technological packages of
inputs closely associated with intensified extention and modified
credit procedures and related policies;
(c) application of technological measures to be put into practice in
3,300 diary farms and 220 small combined breeding and fattening
swine units with long-term credit for on-farm investments and
intensified extension services; and
(d) expansion of eucalyptus plantations in 7,900 small farms to be
assisted with long-term credit and extension services.
7.2       The basic strategy would be to raise farmer productivity by encourag-
ing them to adopt improved methods of husbandry. To this end, selected farmers
would receive credit and technical assistance. ACAR, the state agricultural
extension agency, would prepare simple farm plans and cropping programs for
farmers and would also supervise the farm development loans. To achieve this
ACAR would be strengthened under the project by (a) appointing approximately
150 additional staff; (b) expanding its pre-service training programs; (c)
strengthening its linkages with the Federal University of Vicosa (UFV) and
EPAMIG, the state agricultural research agency; and (d) providing vehicles
and other equipment to extension agents. The cropping programs prepared by
ACAR would include recommendations for specific technical improvements (seeds,
fertilizers, insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, land preparation, and cul-
tural practices, etc.) for each crop on a case-by-case basis. These improved
methods are based on results already proven on farms in the project area and
will be further refined as a result of field trials to be carried out by EPAMIG
(also to be strengthened under the project) and by using demonstration farms
to be established by ACAR with cooperating farmers. Thus the techniques to be
recommended, mostly very simple in nature, would vary with specific situations
related to location, time, type of farmer, and the like. Projected yields have
been conservatively estimated, all of them well below the averages obtained by
the better farmers in the State of Minas Gerais, and the yield increases have
not anticipated any further improvements, which will undoubtedly be developed
by the University of Vicosa, EPAMIG, and ACAR during project implementation.
To illustrate the nature of these technological measures, five examples are
included as follows:
(a) Maize. Simple techniques of fertilizing (200 kg/ha or 4-14-8 and
150 kg/ha of ammonium sulfate) and better cultural practices. Improved
varieties and pest control measures are currently employed throughout the
area. Yields are expected to increase from the present average of 1.34
tons/ha to 2.2 tons/ha. Since improved varieties are already being used,
this estimate is considered realistic because good farmers in the area are
already obtaining over 4 tons/ha.
(b) Beans. Under rainfed conditions, a single change is envisaged--
the use of improved varieties, which would be readily available because the
basic seed currently produced by UFV is already being bulked up by cooperating
farmers with ACAR assistance. Yields are expected to increase from the



- 43 -
present average of 0.51 ton/ha to 0.65 ton/ha, an increase of 27% over
5 years. The low yields currently obtained are due to intercropping maize
with beans. Under irrigated conditions (where improved varieties are being
used), fertilizing (200 kg/ha of 2-16-8), pest control, better land prepa-
ration and soil management would increase yields from 0.8 ton/ha to 1.5
ton/ha. Very good responses to phosphatic fertilizers, with yields over
3 ton/ha, are already being obtained in the project area under irrigation.
(c) Rice. By using improved hybrid varieties, which are being bred
in Sao Paulo (e.g., IR-841 and IR-665), the use of moderate amounts of
fertilizers (200 kg/ha of 4-14-8 at planting and 150 kg/ha of ammonium
sulfate later), and the use of pest control measures, yields are expected
to increase 28%, from the present average of 1.72 ton/ha to 2.2 ton/ha.
Rainfed rice is usually cropped in the varzeas and, therefore, with early-
maturing varieties, there is little risk of drought. If irrigation is
introduced, yields are expected to increase from the present average of
2 ton/ha to 3.5 ton/ha. Rice yields of 5 ton/ha have already been obtained
by farmers in the project area under similar conditions.
(d) Sugarcane. Fertilizer usage would be increased from the present
400 kg/ha of 4-14-8 fertilizer to 600 kg/ha. In addition, land preparation
would be improved. With these simple measures, yields are expected to
increase from 34 ton/ha to 50 ton/ha. Yields are still very low, but they
are limited by natural factors such as soil, topography, and climate.
(e) Fruit. Improved nursery stocks, simple improved cultural practices,
liming (1,000 kg/ha) and the use of moderate amounts of fertilizers (350 kg/
ha of 4-14-8) would be advocated. Under these conditions, the present yield
of 9.7 tons/ha of citrus, for example, could be raised to 16 ton/ha.
7.3       The land reclamation program envisages intensive production in the
reclaimed varzea land (8,000 ha), which amounts to around 1.4% of the total
project area. A cropping intensity of 175% has been projected. This would
include at least one rice crop and one or more crops of fresh vegetables
over three-fourths of the varzea land. These assumptions do not appear un-
realistic as rice has been cultivated in the region for many years, and
because on those farms where irrigation and drainage are already practiced
the cropping intensity appears to be much higher. This is due to the remu-
nerative cash crops produced for consumption in the cities of Belo Horizonte
and Rio de Janeiro, and to the excellent technical assistance available. Key
institutions for a successful transfer of improved technology are the Federal
University of Vicosa, EPAMIG, and ACAR. The UFV, located in the center of the
project area, is one of the best agricultural universities in Brazil or for
that matter in Latin America. It is already engaged in comprehensive research
programs in the fields of plant and animal production, environmental protec-
tion, agricultural economics, and rural sociology, programs which have been
running for at least the last 15 years. It is also noteworthy that ACAR of
Minas Gerais is probably one of the most competent and active extension
services in Brazil, has a good local reputation and wide experience.



- 44 -
Producer Benefits
7.4       Project benefits fall into the following main groups:
(a) Those that would derive from the implementation of the rural
credit and technical assistance components, which comprise about
two-thirds of the total project costs. These benefits are in the
form of increased production and productivity of crops, livestock
and forestry, owing to the combination of credit and technical
assistance and its resulting incremental family revenue.  Table
VII-1 gives an estimate of incremental productivity and production
for the main crops to be financed under the project. Figures
range from less than 10% in most of the area (maize, sugarcane
and livestock) to more than 20% in smaller areas (beans, 37%,
rice, 24%; tobacco, 28%; vegetable, 45%; and fruits, 119%). In-
cremental aggregate production would be about 15% and has been
based on assumed crop yields and livestock technical coefficients
at the first-level technological package; therefore, the estimate
is conservative. Family income of project beneficiaries is ex-
pected to eventually increase 60% over present levels of income,
from a weighted average of US$1,300 per year to some US$2,060
(Table VII-2).
(b) Those that would result from the reclamation and development of
some 8,000 ha of varzea lands, up to now unproductive areas.
Because of their inherent fertility, it is expected that around
three-fourths of this area would be double-cropped, mainly with
rice.
(c) Those that would derive from the general organizational upgrading
of participant development institutions such as the cooperative
development agency (SUDECOOP), the agricultural research institutions
receive special allocations and high-level technical and management
assistance from the project.
(d) Those that would result from the experience gained in the organi-
zation and implementation of rural development programs geared
toward the small, low-income farmers and sharecroppers.
(e) Social, nonquantifiable benefits that would result from the health
and education components of the project.
(f) Those coming from the incremental employment generated by the
investment and operating expenditures of the project.
(g) Those coming from better soil conservation practices brought about
by extensive reforestation.



- 45 -
Firancial Returns
7.5       The financial rate of return, ranging from 16 to 29%, has been calcu-
lated only for the agricultural component on the basis of six farm models
representative of the crop, livestock and forestry activities to be financed
by f1.- project. It considers as costs the on-farm investment and operating
costs and a general overhead to allow for overall farm management, and as
benefits all farm sales and home-consumed production. Prices for inputs, and
hired labor 1/ and production sold represent prevailing market price averages.
Testing the viability of the models as to price and cost sensitivity under
various assumptions gives the following results:
Dairy and                (Share-
Dairy  Dairy   Refores-          Citrus  croppers)
30 ha  70 ha   tation   Swine  17 ha   Crops 12 ha
Financial Rate of Return
Best estimate                      20     21       18        16     27        29
Total cost increased by 10%        14      15      15         6     25        18
Total income increased by 10%    28       25       24        35     33        42
Total income decreased by 10%    13        14      14         4     24        16
Since it is unlikely that sales receipts would be reduced by 10% in view of
the conservative technical coefficients used and the strong accumulated
demand in Belo Horizonte, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo markets, these results
are considered satisfactory.
7.6       Table VII on page 53 summarizes producer benefits.  The average
family income of the farmers after full development would be, on the basis of
a weighted average of the six models, about US$2,060 (Cr$ 17,500), which would
represent a 60% improvement over present levels of income: US$1,300
(Cr$ 11,018). This improvement in standard of living would be due to the
productive (credit and technical assistance) components of the project. An
additional important share of noneconomic benefits would come to the farmer by
way of the other physical and social infrastructure components of the project.
Whereas the financial rates of return have been calculated on the basis of the
farm models, which assume owner-farmer operators, it should be pointed out
that this is not the only case of land tenure in the area; there would be a
substantial proportion of small, extremely poor sharecroppers benefited
(9,000) who, having a low production and income starting base, would obtain a
substantially higher incremental income over a short period, as they mostly
work on annual crops. Furthermore, the new state credit policies would
hopefully allow them to borrow directly from the banks, thereby liberating
them from the exorbitant interest rates charged by their landlords. This
effect alone could bring about a significant improvement in their standard
of living. (See farm model 6 on page 52).
Farm Models
7.7       Six farm models which illustrate the main types of agricultural
enterprises to be undertaken under the project are shown overleaf.
1/   Family labor was considered at 66.6% of the labor market value.



BRAZIL                                       - 46 -
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELO0MENT PROJECT
Table VII-I
Production and Productivity of Selected Crops
Yields (ton/ha)         Production 000 tons                    Year of
Without     With      Without    With                Increment  Full De-
Project    Project   Project   Project  Increment        %       velopment
Maize                    1.34       2.20       412.2      438.0     25.8       6.3           6
Beans (rainfed)          0.51       o.65)
41.0      56.1      15.1      36.8           6
Beans (irrigated)        0.80       1.50).
Rice (rainfed)           1.72       2.20)
133-3     164.7      33.14    23.6            6
Rice (irrigated)         2.00       3.50)
Sugarcane  /            34.00      50.00    2,000.0   2,204.4    204.4        10.2           7
Tobacco 2                o.49       1.20         7.4        9.5      2.1      28.3           6
Vegetables 3/           10.00      20.00        22.0      32.0      10.0      45.5           6
Fruits 4/                9.70      16.oo        63.1     138.3      75.2    119.2           12
Forage 5/                -         40.00        n.a.      80.0       -         -             5
Beef (liveweight)                               46.4       51.4      5        10.7          10
Calving rate            60%        70%           -         -         -        16.7          10
Milk (ltr/cow/year)      700    1,200          398.7     434.8      36.1       9.1          10
Pork (liveweight)       n.a.                    n.a.       3.1                 -             8
Forest/wood             n.a.                    n.a.               44o.o                 9-17-27
1/ Plantation period average: five years.
2/ Change of variety from twist to leaf tobacco.
3  Based on most important horticultural crops at present:  tomatoes, peppers and onions:
33% each.
4  Based on 47% citrus, 21% guava, 21% banana, 5%o avocado and 6% other.
5/ Mainly oats, irrigated.



BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 1:  30-ha Dairy Farm with 20 ha in Pasture
(Cr$ '000)
Years              0           1          2          3           4           5          6          7          8           9       10-25
A.  GROSS INCOME                       6.0        9.8        10.9       13.9         18.4       21.9       21.4       20.1       21.4        20.1       20.8
On-Farm Consumption 1/            0.7        0.7          0.8        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0
Milk Sales                        4.5        7.2          9.3       10.2        13.0       14.2       14.2        14.2       14.2       14.2        14.2
Cattle Sales                      0.8        1.9          0.8        2.7         4.4         6.7        6.2        4.9        6.2         4.9        5.6
B.  PRODUCTION COSTS                   4.9       32.0         7.6       10.6         12.0       13.7       14.7       13.7        13.6       14.6       14.0
o            Investment 2/                       -       25.0           -          -           -           -          -          -          -           -          -
ms          Operation                          4.6        4.8          6.7        9.5        10.9       12.4       13.4        12.4       12.4       13.4        12.8
Labor                           2.6        3.0          4.2        5.4         6.8        7.9        7.9         7.9        7.9        7.9         7.9
o   Other 3/                    2.0        1.8          2.5        4.1         4.1        4.5        5.5         4.5        4.5        5.5         4.9
FUNRURAL Tax 4/                   (.L        0.2          0.2        0.3         0.3        0.4        0.4         0.4        0.4         0.4        0.4
Technical Assistance 5/            -         0.5          0.3        0.3         0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2        0.1        0.1         0.1
Social Security 6/                            -            -          -           -           -          -          -          -           -          -
Overhead (5%)                     0.2        1.5          0.4        0.5         0.6        0.7        0.7         0.7        0.7        0.7         0.7
C.  NET BENEFIT (A-B)                  1.1      (22.2)        3.3         3.3         6.4        8.2        6.7        6.4         7.8        5.5        6.8
D.  INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT             -       (23.3)        2.2         2.2         5.3        7.1        5.6         5.3        6.7        4.4         5.7
Incremental Herd Value                                                                                                                              29.1
Financial Rate of Return          20%
Farm Model 1:  Cash Flow
(Cr$ '000)
Years             0          1          2          3           4           5          6          7          8           9         10          11         12         13-25
Cash Inflow
Development Loan                    -        25.0         -          -            -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -
Net Sales                         5.3          9.1       10.1       12.9        17.4        20.9       20.4       19.1       20.4        19.1       19.8        19.8       19.8       19.8
Subtotal                       5.3        34.1       10.1        12.9        17.4       20.9       20.4        19.1       20.4       19.1        19.8       19.8        19.8       19.8
Cash Outflow
Investment Cost                   -          25.0         -          -           -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -
operating Costs                   4.9          7.0        7.6       10.6        12.0        13.7       14.7       13.7       13.6        14.6       14.0        14.0       14.0       14.0
Interest (10% year)               -            2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5         2.2        1.9        1.6         1.3        1.0        0.6         0.3        -          -
Loan Repayment                    --                      -          -            -          3.1        3.1        3.1         3.1        3.1        3.1         3.2        3.2
Subtotal                       4.9        34.5       10.1        13.1        14.5       19.0       19.7        18.4       18.0       18.7        17.7       17.5        17.2       14.0
Balance - End of Year                  0.4        (0.4)        0         (0.2)        2.9        1.9        0.7         0.7        2.4        0.9         2.1        2.3         7.6        5.8
Family Labor                      2.6          3.0        4.2        5.4         6.8         7.9        7.9        7.9         7.9        7.9        7.9         7.9        7.9         7.9
Cash Family Income                3.0          2.6        4.2        5.2         9.7         9.8        8.6        8.6        10.3        8.8       10.0        10.2       10.5       13.7
Incremental Cash                  -           (0.4)       1.2        2.2         6.7         6.8        5.6        5.6         7.3        5.8        7.0         7.2        7.5       10.7
Incremental On-fam
Consumption                  n  -            _          0.1        0.3         0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3        0.3
Incremental Family Income         -           (0.4)       1.3        2.5         7.0         7.1        5.9        5.9         7.6        6.1        7.3         7.5        7.8       11.0
V/ Milk 500 I/yr/family to 700 I/yr/family.
2/ Total pasture establishment and renovation costs,  Cr$ 3,700; fences, Cr$ 2,100; water troughs, Cr$ 1,000; structures (trench. silo, mineral troughs,  and corral repairs),
Cr$ 6,200; equipment (power chaff cutter, sprayer, and sundry equipment), Cr$ 4,000; breeding stock (2), Cr$ 8,000; total, Cr$ 25,000.
3/ Animal health--Cr$ 20/AU before development and Cr$ 50/AU from Year 1.
Supplements--Concentrate: I kg/3 1 incremental milk after Year 3 (Cr4 1.2/kg).
--Minerals: 5 kg/AU (Cr$ 5/kg)
Maintenance--5b structure and 10% equipment values
Transport--CrS 0.1/l milk sold
Bull replacement--Cr$ 1,000 every 3 years.
4/ 2% of sales.
5/ 2% of loan the first year and 1% of outstanding loan thereafter.
6/ Calculated at approximately 507, over minimum wage for hired labor.



BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 2: 70-ha Dairy Farm with 50 ha in Pasture
(Cr$ '000)
Years                  0            1             2            3             4             5           6           7            8            9            10-25
A.  Gross Income                            17.9          26.2         26.4         28.8          36.9          47.9        50.3         57.3        57.3          57.3          57.3
On-farm Consumption 1/                   0.7          0.7          0.8           1.0          1.0           1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0          1.0            1.0
Milk Sales                              12.0         18.3          20.6         22.8         29.7           39.0        39.0        39.0         39.0         39.0           39.0
Cattle Sales                             5.2          7.2          5.0           5.0          6.2           7.9         10.3        17.3         17.3         17.3           17.3
n    B.  Production Costs                        12.8          69.8         31.8         19.4          24.5          29.7        29.8         29.9        29.8          29.7          29.5
0
a        Investment 21                             -           52.0         14.0           -            -             -            -           -            -            -              -
Operation                               11.8         13.0         15.0          17.2         21.6          26.5         26.6        26.6         26.6         26.6           26.6
Labor                                8.2           8.8          9.6          10.6         11.4          11.4         11.4        11.4         11.4         11.4           11.4
,           other 3/                             3.6           4.2          5.4           6.6         10.2          15.1         15.2        15.2        15.2          15.2          15.2
FUNRURAL Tax 4/                          0.4          0.5          0.5           0.6          0.7           0.9          1.0         1.1          1.1          1.1            1.1
Technical Assistance 5/                  -            1.0          0.8           0.7          0.7           0.6          0.5         0.5          0.4          0.3            0.1
Social Security ,                        -            -             -            -            0.3           0.3          0.3         0.3          0.3          0.3            0.3
Overhead (5%)                            0.6          3.3           1.5          0.9          1.2            1.4         1.4         1.4          1.4          1.4            1.4
C.  Net Benefit (A-B)                        5-1        (43.6)         (4)           9-4          12.4          18.2        20.5         27.4        27.5          27.6          27.8
D.  Incremental Net Benefit                             (48.7)        (10.5)         4.3           7.3          13.1        15.4         22.3        22.4          22.5          22.7
Incremental Herd Value                                                                                                                                                      68.0
Financial Rate of Return                21%
Farm Model 2: Cash Flow
(Cr$ '000)
Years                 0        1        2        3       4          5      6        7        8       9        10        11       12          13         14-25       ,.
Cash Inflow
Development Loan                     -       52.0    14.0       -        -         -       -        -        -       -        -         -        -          -             -
Net Sales                           17.2    25.5    25.6    27.8    35.9          46.9   49.3    56.3    56.3   56.3        56.3       56.3    56.3        56.3         56.3
Subtotal                         17.2    77.5    39.6    27.8    35.9         46.9   49.3    56.3    56.3   56.3    56.3           56.3    56.3         56.3         56.3
Cash Outflow
Investment Cost                      -       52.0    14.0       -        -         -       -        -        -       -        -         -        -          -             -
Operating Costs                     12.8    17.8    17.8    19.4    24.5          29.7   29.8    29.9    29.8   29.7    29.5           29.5    29.5        29.5         29.5
Interest (15%)                       -        7.8      9.9      9.9      9.9       8.9    7.7       6.5      5.2    4.0       2.8       1.5      0.3        -             -
Loan Repayment                                                  -        -         6.5    8.2       8.2      8.2    8.2       8.3       8.3      8.3        1.8
Subtotal                         12.8    77.6    41.7    29.3    34.4         45.1   45.7    44.6    43.2   41.9    40.6           39.3    38.1        31.3          29.5
Balance--End of Year                     4.4    (0.1)   (2.1)   (1.5)    1.5           1.8    3.6    11.7    13.1   14.4    15.7          17.0    18.2        25.0          26.8
Family Labor                         8.2      8.8      9.6    10.6    10.8        10.8   10.8    10.8    10.8   10.8    10.8           10.8    10.8        10.8          10.8
Cash Family Income (CFI)            12.6      8.7      7.5      9.1    12.3       12.6   14.4    22.5    23.9   25.2    26.5           27.8    29.0        35.8          37.6
Incremental (CFI)                     -      (3.9)   (5.1)   (3.5)   (0.3)         0.0    1.8       9.9    11.3   12.6    13.9         15.2    16.4        23.2          25.0
Incremental On-farm Consumption   -           -        0.1      0.3      0.3       0.3    O.3       0.3      0.3    0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3        0.3           0.3
Incremental Family Income            -       (3.9)   (5.0)    (3.2)    -           0.3    2.1    10.2    11.6   12.9    14.2           15.5    16.7        23.5          25.3
1/ Milk: 500 1/yr/family to 700 1/yr/family.
2/ Pasture establishment and renovations, Cr$ 9,000; fences, Cr$ 7,000; structures (silo, water and mineral trough, building and corral repair), Cr$ 19,0C'9;
equipment (chaff cutter, sprayer, and sundry equipment), Cr$ 7,000; breeding stock (5), Cr$ 24,000; total, Cr$ 66,000.
3/ Animal Health--Cr$ 20/AU before development and Cr$ 50/AU from Year 1.
Supplements--Concentrate: I kg/3 1 incremental milk after Year 3 (Cr$ 1.2/kg)
Minerals: 5 kg/AU (Cr$ 5/kg)
Maintenance--5% structure and 10Z equipment values
Transport--Cr$ 0.1/1 milk sold
Bull replacement--Cr$ 1,500/yr
4/ 2% of sales.
5/ 2% of loan in the first year and 1% of outstanding loan thereafter.
6/ Calculated at approximately 50% over minimum wage for hired labor.



BRAZIL
z0NA DA MATA RURAL REVELOPXENT PROJECT
Farm Model 3: 70-ha Dairy Fati with 50 ha in Pasture and 10 ha in Reforestation
(Cr) 9000)
Years                        0        1        2       3        4        5        6       7        8        9        10      11       12       13       14       15      16       17       18       19       20       21      22
A. Gross Income                                 17.9    26.2    26.4    28.8    36.9    49.9    52.3    59.3   164 6    57.3    57.3    57.3    57 3    57.3    57.3    144.3   57.3    57.3    57 3    57.3    57.3    57.3    129.8
On-Farm Consumption 1/                      0,7      0.7      0.8      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0       1.0     1.0       1.0    1.0       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
milk Sales                                 12.0    18.3    20.6    22.8    29.7    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0                39.0   39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0           39.9
n           Cattle Sales                                 5.2     7.2      5.0      5.0      6.2     7.9    10.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3             17.3   17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3    17.3           17.3
Wood Sails                                   -        -       -        -        -       2.0      2.0      2.0   107.3       -       -        -        -        -       -        87.0    -         -        -        -        -       -        72.5
. B troduction Coets                            12.8    96.4    35.3    20.0        25.1   30.5    30.6    30.7    85.2    35.9    30.0    30.0    29.9    29.9    29.9             74.3   35.6    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9           67.0
I-vestment 2/                              -        72.0    14.0           -        -        -       -        -        -            -        -        -        -       -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -         -
Livestock                                -        52.0    14.0
Fsrestry                                 -        20.0      -        -       -
Operation                                   11.8    17.0    17.5    17.6    22.0    26.9    27.0    27.0    60.3    30.6    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0                54.0   30.6    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0           49.5
Lb6r                                     8.2    12.6    11.9    10.8    11.6    11.6    11.6    11.6    44.9    15.2    11.6    11.6    11.6    11.6    11.6                 38.6   15.2    11.6    11.6    11.6    11.6    11.6           34.1
Other 3/                                  3.6      4.4      5.6     6.8    10.4    15.3    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4               15.4   15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4    15.4           15.4
FUNRURAL Tax 4/                             0.4      0.5      0.5      0.6     0.7      0.9      1.0      1.1      3.3     1.1      1.1      1.1      1 1     1.1      1.1       2.9    1.1       1 1      1.1      1.1      1.1     1.1       2.6
Technical Assistance 5/                      -       1.4      1.0      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.7      0.7      0.4     0.3      0.1      0.1      -        -       -         -       -        -        -        -        -       -         -
Social Security 6/                          -        0.9      0.6      -       0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4    17.1      2.2      0.4      0.4     0.4       0.4     0.4      13.9    2.2       0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      11.7
ONerhead (5%)                               0.6      4.6      1.7      1.0     1 2      1.5      1.5      1.5     4.1      1.7      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4       3.5    1.7       1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4       1.4      3.2
C. Net 3.eefit (A-B)                             5.1   (70.2)   (8.9)    8.8    11.8    19.4    21.7    28.6    79.4    21.4    27. 3    273    27.4    27.4    27.4                70.0   21.7    27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4           62.8
D.  Oncreenral Ret Renefit                              (75.3)  (14.0)    3.7       6.7    14.3    16.6    21.5    74.3    16.3    22.2    22.2    22.3    22.3    22.3              64.9   16.6    22.3    22.3    22.3    22.3    22.3           57.7
Inoremental 'derd Value                                                                                                                                                                                                                       68.0
Financial Rate of Retcrn                    187.
Farm Model 3..Gah Firm
(Gr$ '900)
Years                         0       1        2        3       4        5        6        7        8       9        10       11       12      13       14       15       16       17       18      19       20       21       22
Cash inflow
Devalcp.ect Losn                          -       72.0    14.0       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Net Sales                                 17.2    23.5    25.6    27.8    35.9    48.9    51.3    58.3   163.6    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    143.3   56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3   128.8
Subtotal                               17.2    97.5    39.6    27.8    35.9    48.9    51.3    58.3   163.6    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3    143.3   56.3    56.3    56.3    56 3    56.3    56.3   128.8
Gash Outflow
Investment Cost                           -       72.0    14.0       -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Operating Costs                          12.8    24.4    21.3    20.0    25.1    30.5    30.6    30.7    85.2    35.9    30.0    30.0    29.9    29.9    29.9    74.3    35.6    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    67.0
Interert                                   -      10.8    12.9    12.9    12.9    11.9    10.7          9.5      5.2     4.0      2.8      1.5      0.3      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Loan Rep.y- ec                            _                 _        _        -       6.5      8.2      8.2    28.2      8.2      8.3      8.3      8.3      1.8
o Rbteta1                              12.8   107.2    48.2    32.9    38.0    48.9    49.5    48.4   118.6    48.1    41.1    39.8    38.5    31.7    29.9    74.3    35.6    29.9    29.9    29.9    29 9    29.9    67.0
Belacre - End of Year                       4.4    (9 7)   (8.6)   (5.1)   (2.1)    0.0          1.8      9.9    45.0       8.2    15.2    16.5    17.8    24.6    26.4    69.0    20.7    26.4    26.4    26.4    26.4    26.4    61.8
Family Laber                                 8.2    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8
Cash Fanily Income (CFI)                    12.6      1.1     2.2      5.7      8.7    10.8    12.6    20.7    55.8         9 0    26.0    27.3    28.6    35.4    37.2    79.8    31.5    37.2    37.2    37.2    37.2    37.2    72.6
Incremeseal FI                              -     (11.5)  (10.4)   (6 9)   (3.9)   (1.8)    0.0          8.1    43.2      6.4    13.4    14.7    16.0    22.8    24 6    67.2    18.9    24.6    24.6    24.6    24.6    24.6    60.0
Incremental Oi-Farm CZonsmtption             -       -        0.1      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      9.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0 3      0 3      0.3      0.3      9.3      0.3
Inorenental Fanily Income                    -     (11.5)  (10.3)   (6.6)   (3.6)   (1.5)    0.3          8.4    43.5       6.7    13.7    15.0    16.3    23.1    24.9    67.5    19.2    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    60.3
1/ Milk:  500 1/yr/fsmily to 700 I/yr/family.  Woud for the fans would  re utilfeed from foreot r-sur-e en each farm.
2/ Dairy investment, as fcr Farm Model 2.  Forestry ivestment   materials (seedlings, fe-tLli-e, incurticlde), Cr) 9,250  transport, Cr) 850, labor for plonting, Cr) 9.900, tutr1, Cr) 20,000.
3/ Dairy   as for Modal 2.  Forestry   some inseuct-iden.
4/ 2% of sales.
5/ 2% of loan in first year and 1% of voistand,ng luau thereafter
6/ Calcculted at appro-inately 50% over minimum sage for hired labor.



BRAZIL
ZONA DA I51TA  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Farm Model 4: Pig MReedlme/Fssxeolng Model for 12 So-s
(Cr3 1000)
Years            0        1         2        3         4        5         6         7        8         9          10          *1           12 - 25
A.  GROSS  INCOME                           52.5      63.5     84.3      85.1      85.1     85.1      85.1     85.1      85.1       85.1        85.1             85.1
On-fair consumption 1/                   C.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       1.5          0.5             0,5
Pig Solos                               52.0     83.0      83.8      84.6     84.6      84.6     84.6      84.6      84.6       84.6        84.6            84.6
B.  PRODUCTION COSTS                       115.1      79.5     72.2      73.3      73.2     73.1      73.0     72.9      72.8       72.7        72.7            72.7
Investment 2/                           67.6       7.4       -         -        -         -         -        -         -          -           -               -
Operation                               39.6      65.8     66.4      67.5     67.5      67.5     67.5      67.5      67.5       67.5        67.5            67.5
- Labor                                  3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2        3.2         3.2             3.2
- Other 3/                              36.4     62.6      63.2      64.3     64.3      64.3     64.3      64.3      64.3      64.3         64.3            64.3
FUNRURAL Tam 4/                          1.0       1.7      1.7       1.7       1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7       1.7        1.7         1.7             1.7
Technical nalasne 5/                     1.4       0.8      0.7       0.6      0.5       0.4       0.3      0.2       0.1         -           -               -
Social Security 6/                        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -          -           -               -
Overhead (5%)                            5.5       3.8      3.4       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5        3.5         3.5             3.5
C.  NET BENEFIT (A - B)                    (62.6)      4.0     12.1      11.8      11.9     12.0      12.1     12.2      12.3       12.4        12.4            12.4
Finncial Rate ot Return         16Z
Farm  Model 4:  Cash Fln
(Cr0 '000)
Ynare           0        1         2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9          10          11           12 -25
Cash Inflon
Develnp-ent Loan                     -      67.6       7.4        -        -         -        -         -         -         -         -           -
Net Sales                                   52.0      83.0      83.8     84.6      84.6     84.6      84,6      84.6     84.6       84.6        84.6            84.6
Subtotal                                 119.6      90.4     83.8      84.6      84.6     84.6      84.6     84.6      84.6       84.6        84.6            84.6
Cash Outflon
Investment Cost                             67.6       7.4       -         -         -        -         -         -        -          -           -               -
Operating Costa                             47.5      72.1      72.2     73.3      73.2      73.1     73.0      72.9     72.8       72.7        72.7             72.7
Interest (15'I)                      -      10.1      11.2      10.0      8.6       7.2      5.8       4.4       3.0      1.6        0.2          -                -
Loan Rapaymnent                               _        _        8.4       9.3       9.3      9.3       9.4       9.4      9.4        9.5         1.0
Subtotal                                125.2      90.7     90.6      91.2      89.7     88.2      86.8     85.3      83.8       82.4        73.7            72.7
Baltnce - End of Year                      ( 5.6)    (0.3)    (6.8)    (6.6)    (5.1)    (3.b)    (2.2)    (0.7)          0.8        2.2        10.9            11.9
Family lakbr                                 3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2        3.2        3.2              3.2
C.ah Fanily Income (CFI)             -     ( 2.4)      2.9      (3.6)    (3.4)    (1.9)    (0.4)       1.0       2.5      4.0        5.4        14.1            I5.1
lncremental CFI 7/                         ( 2.4)      2.9      (3.6)    (3.4)    (1.9)    1O.4)       1.0       2.5      4.0        5.4        14.1             15.1
lncrenental un-fair con.umptcmn              0.5       0.5       IA       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5        0.5         0.5             0.5
Incremental Family Income                  k 1.9)      3.4     (3.1)    (2.9)    (1.4)       0.1       1.5       3.0      4.5        5.9        14.6            15.6
1/  Ertimated at 90 kg/year/faoily,  liveseight.
2/  Breeding stock, Cr5 14,500; building equipment, Cr$ 36,000; other m- tertulo, Cr$ 24,500; totalt Cr5 75,000.
!/  Feed  veterinary  supplies, par-ha-e of boar (emery tas, yearn), and maintenance (5% etructore and 10b. equipment v-Suen).
4/  2%, of .ies.
5/  27. nf loon the first year and 1% of outstanding loom  thereafte-.
6/  Calculated at uppronimately 507. over  nimun  00g8  for hired lubor.
7/  Equivalent tn cash family incten  because there is no "vithont" project situation
Ortbher 1976



ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fars  Model 5:  17-ha Fare with 8 ha Citrs, 5.5 ha Mason. and 2.5 ha Beans, Inrercropped
Years        0               1              2               3              4               5               6              7               8-25
A.  Gress Income                                              23.9            14.3           14.3            14.3            26.3           38.3            50.3            62.3           80.3
On-farm Consumption  o1 0.6                                               0.6             0.6            0.6             0.6             0.6            0.6             0.6             0.6
Citrus Sales                                               -              -               -               -             12.0            24.0           36.0            48.0            66.0
F             Maize Rates       .                                       14.2 7/          9.4             9.4            9.4             9.4            9.4             9.4             9.4             9.4
D.e.s Dales                                                9.1 7/         4.3             4.3             4.3            4.3             4.3             4.3           463              4.3
B.  Production Costs                                          19.1            47.4           23.4            23.r           24.7            25.5            26.0            26.5           27.0
Investment 2/                                              -             29.8            10.9           10.9             -               -              -               -               -
a             Operation                                                  15.9            9.8             9.8            9.8            21.0            21.2           21.7            22.1            22.7
Labor                                                   14.3            6.9             6.9            6.9            11.7            11.9           12.4            12.8            13.4
Citrus                                               -               -               -              -              4.8             5.0             5.5             5.9             6.5
Maize                                               10.7             5.5             5.5            5.5             5.5            5.5             5.5             5,5             5.5
ds.ns                                                3.6             1.4            1.4             1.4             1.4            1.4             1.4             1.4             1.4
Other 3/                                                 1.6            2.9             2.9            2.9             9.3             9.3            9.3             9.3             9.3
Citrns                                               -               -               -              -               6.4            6.4             6.4             6.4             6.4
Mater                                                0.8             2.3             2.3            2.3             2.3            2.3             2.3             2.3             2.3
Beans                                                0.8             0.6            0.6             0.6            0.6             0.6             0.6             0.6             0.6
FUNRURAL Tee 4/                                            0.5            0.3             0.3             0.3            0.5             0.8             1.0            1.2             1.6
Technical As-ittames 5/                                    -               0.8            1.0             1.2            1.5             1.7             1.3            0.9             0.1
Snial  eecurity 6/                                        1.8            4.4             0.3            0.3             0.5             0.6             0.8            1.0             1.3
Overhead (5%)                                              0.9             2.3            1.1             1.1            1.2             1.2             1.2            1.3             1.3
C.  Net Bemefit (A-B)                                          4.8           (33.1)           (9.1)          (9.3)            1.6           12.8            24.3            35.8            53.3
D.  Iscrenental Net Benefit                                                  (37.9)         (13.9)          (14.1)           (3.2)           8.0            19.5            31.0            48.5
Finantial Rate of Nature                                  27X
FPem Mndel 5:  17-he Farm with 8 ha Citro., 5.5 he Maite, and 2.5 ha Beams. Inte--ropped
(Cr0 '999)
Years           0              1              2             3               4              5               6               7              8             9              10             11              12-25
Cash Inflot
Development Lns.                                           -             29.8           10.9          10.9                                                          -              -                                                              -
Shert-tern Loan                                            -             17.6           12.5          12.7            24.7            25.5            -              -              -              -             -              -                 -
Net Sales                                                  23.3          13.7           13.7          13.7            25.7            37.7           49.7            61.7           79.7           79.7          79.7           79.7               79.7
subhotal                                                23.3           61.1          37.1           37.3            50.4           63.2            49.7            61.7          79.7           79.7           79.7           79.7              79.7
Cash OutflnIo
Isvestnent Cost                                            -             79 8           10.9          10.9            -         -    -                -              -              -              -             -              -                 -
operating Conts                                            19.1          17.6           12.5          12.7            24.7            25.5            26.0           26.5           27.0           27.0           27.0           27.0              27.0
Internst DL (15%)                                          -              4.5            6.1           7.7             7.7             6.6             5.1            3.2            1.2            0.4          -              -                  -
rnterest ST (10%) 8/                                       -              0.9            0.6           0.6             1.2             1.3            -              -              -              -
Loan Rspaymant-DS                                                          -             -              -              -               7.4            10.1           12.9           12.9            5.5            2.8
Lose Repaymemt-ST                                          _             17.6           12.5          12.7            24.7            25.5            -              -
BSbtetal                                                 19.1          70.4          42.6           44.6            58.3           66.3            41.2            42.6           41.1           32.9          29.8           27.0              27.0
Balansa - End af Year                                           4.2           (9.3)         (5.5)          (7.3)           (7.9)          (3.1)            8.5            19.1          38.6           46.8           49.9           52.7              52.7
Fsmily Labor                                               10.8           6.9            6.9            6.9           10.8            10.8            10.8            10.8          10.8           10.8           10.8           10.8              10.8
Cash Family lemons (CFI)                                   15.0           (2.4)          1.4           (0.4)           2.9             7.7            19.3            29.9          49.4           57.6           60.7           63.5              63.5
Incremental CFI                                            -            (17.4)         (13.6)        (15.4)          (12.1)           (7.3)            4.3           14.9           34.4           42.6           45.7           48.5              48.5
Inremenetal On-fares Consuptton
Ieresiental FPeily Ineme                                                (17.4)         (13.6)        (15.4)          (12.1)           (7.3)            4.3            14.9          34.4           42.6           45.7           48.5              48.5
1/ Bs.ed en 125  ag of beans, 300 kg of matze, and 40 kg of citr-s per year.
2/ Citres plantifg and operating nests (isolnding 58% labor costs) stil Yesr 3.
3/ Beede, fertili-ers, pesticides, herbicides, end transport.
hI 2% of sales.
5/ 2% of ioan the first year, and 1% 01 outstanding loan thereafter.
6/ Calculated at approximately 50% seem mininun wage for hired labor.
7/ Assumimg 13.5 ha of eater, of  shich 6.5 h. intercropped with bhens.  Oat cf the 13.5 ha, 8 ha wo-ld be planted with cit-.s fron Year 1.
_/ DBring 6 months.



-  52  -
BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model 6: 2 ha Sharecropping Farm -- 1 ha Rice and 1 ha Maize/Beans
(Cr$ '000)
Years      0                  1 - 25
A.  GROSS INCOME                                     6.9                 9.1
On-farm Consumption 1/                          0.9                  0.9
Rice Sales                                      3.8                  5.0
Maize Sales                                     1.0                  1.6
Beans Sales                                     1.2                  1.6
B.  PRODUCTION COSTS                                 2.8                 4.5
Operation                                       2.6                  4.1
- Labor                                         2.2                  2.5
- Other 2/                                      0.4                  1.6
FUNRURAL Tax 3/                                 0.1                  0.1
Technical Assistance 4/                          -                   0.1
Social Security                                  -                    -
Overhead (5%)                                   0.1                  0.2
C.  NET BENEFIT (A-B)                               4.1                  4.6
Financial Rate of Return = 29%                       CASH   FLOW
Landowner   Sharecropper    Landowner  Sharecropper
Cash Inflow
Short-term Loan                    2.8           2.2              1.0          3.5
Net Sales 5/                       4.0           2.0              4.1          4.1
Subloan Interest 6/                0.3            -                -
Subtotal                       7.1           4.2             5.1          7.6
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs                    0.6           2.2              1.0          3.5
Interest 7/                        0.2           0.3             0.1          0.3
Loan Repayment                     2.8           2.2              1.0          3.5
Subtotal                      3.6           4.7             2.1          7.3
Balance - End of Year                   3.5          (0.5)            3.0          0.3
Family Labor                        -            2.2               -           2.5
Cash Income                        3.5           1.7              3.0          2.8
Incremental Income                  -             -              (0.5)         1.1
1/  Based on 125 Kg beans, 80 Kg maize and 200 Kg rice per family/year.
2/ Seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and transport.
3/ 2% of sales.
4/ 2% of loan.
5/  Assuming 2/3    of sales for landowner and 1/3rd for sharecropper in Year 0
(sharecropper provides labor only); and d of sales for each from Years 1
(sharecropper provides labor and 50% of other inputs).
6/  Assuming that landowner lends sharecropper at 20% interest/year (during nine
months), in Year 0.
7/  10% per year (20% for sharecropper in Year 0) during nine months.



BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELO1MENT PROJECT
Table VII-2: Summary of Producer Benefits
Model 1        Model 2         Model 3         Model 4       Model 5       Model 6
20-ha Dairy    SO-ha Dairy        10-ha        20-ha Swine  8-ha Citrus  2-ha Share-
(Farms, 30 ha) (Farms, 70 ha) Reforestation       12 Sows     5.5 Annual   cropping
50-ha Dairy    (Farms, 20-      Crops    Farm-l ha tice,
(Farms, 70 ha)    50 ha)      (Farms, 17- 1 ha Maize/Beans
100 ha)
Full Development Year                     5              5               8               4             8             2
Number of Farms 1/                   2,o00             45o             45o             220           590        9,000
Financial Rate of Return %               20             21              18              16            27            29
Annual Family Income                --------------------------------------Cr$ t000------------------------------------
Before Investment                                                                                           Sharecroppers
Gross Income                            6.0           17.9            17.9             0            23.9           2.0
Family Income 2/                        3.7           13.3            13.3             0            15.6           1.7
On-farm Consumption                     0.7            0.7             0.7             0             0.6           0.9
After Development
Gross Income                          20.8            57.3            70.6 2/         84.6          80.3           4.1
Family Income                         14/ -  h.7      38.6            45.1            15.0          64.1           2.8
On-farm Consumption                     1.0            1.0             1.0             0.5           0.6           0.9
Incremental Net Family Income         11.0            25.3            31.8            15.0          48.5           1.1
1/ Total number of farms does not correspond to total number of direct beneficiaries as the models only illustrate some ofthe
possible farm production. plans.
2/ Includes paid family labor valued at 66.6% of the market price.
T/ Reforestation income effective in the 8th year is the simple annual average over the same period.
October 1976



- 54 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.1       The benefits accruing from project implementation derive not only
from the directly productive components, i.e., agricultural credit, land
(varzea) reclamation and reforestation but from a series of integrated proj-
ect components which include technical assistance, agricultural research, sup-
port to the development of rural cooperatives and the social infrastructure
investments in health and education. The project's combination of agricul-
tural development, institutional upgrading (ACAR, SUDECOOP, EPAMIG, Health
and Education State Secretariats) and social development components make the
estimate of economic costs and benefits particularly difficult, and an attempt
to present an overall economic analysis has been restricted to the agricultu-
ral component of the project. The financial rates of return for the six models
representing the agricultural, livestock and reforestation components financed
through the project are shown in Table VII-2. The composite financial rate of
return for the six models was estimated to be 20.7%.
Project Beneficiaries
8.2       The 25,500 families (140,000 persons) projected to benefit directly
from the technical assistance and agricultural credit have been subdivided
according to farm size (para 3.06). Some 89% of direct beneficiaries are
sharecroppers or small farmers who own less than 100 ha of rainfed land and
have annual incomes per capita of the order of US$250. The farms are hilly
(no more than 10% of the project area can be considered flat) and often eroded
as a result of poor management practices following coffee eradication. As a
consequence most of the farm area is used for extensive dairy and cattle
production from natural pastures, while annual crops are cultivated by share-
croppers in the varzeas and valley bottoms.
8.3       Sharecropping is a long-established tenure arrangement in the project
area--at least 24,000 agricultural producers defined themselves as share-
croppers in 1974. Most of them are landless relatives of the owners of the
farms and probably have been sharecroppers on the same property for many years.
Sharecropping involves a wide variety of arrangements between landlord and
sharecropper but the two modes most commonly found are the 2/3-1/3 and the
50-50 crop-sharing patterns. The first one reflects an established formula
for the poorer sharecroppers, who can only contribute to the enterprise with
their labor. The second one, in which the sharecropper provides the labor
requirement plus one-half the physical inputs, is found among the more "affluent"
sharecroppers. In Model 6, presented in the previous chapter, the shift from
one type of sharecropping to the other is illustrated. It is hoped that the
direct availability of credit to the sharecropper would allow him to negotiate
a 50-50 produce-sharing arrangement rather than the 1/3-2/3 variant. In
addition, it is expected that this will also prevent the sharecropper from
being charged excessively high interest rates, which in the past has been a
fairly common practice when the landlord acted as on-lender. Local officials
are well aware that the basic land tenure problems that give rise to sharecrop-
ping systems cannot be solved overnight by a project of this nature but consider



- 55 -
it reasonable to assume that if sharecroppers can borrow directly from the
banks and have access to cheaper working capital, they improve their chances
of retaining a greater share of the crop. This would result in a substantial
increase in their meager incomes, even though in absolute terms the figures
involved are small. There has been extensive discussion as to whether these
changes could result in the eviction or dismissal of sharecroppers. It has
been concluded that this would not generally be the case, basically for two
reasons. Firstly, the social distance between landlord and sharecropper, who
is normally a relative of the farmer, is small, and their standards of living
do not differ very much. In this sense, and as a result of past coffee pro-
duction, this is not the classic latifundistic landlord dealing with a mass
of impoverished sharecroppers. On the contrary, in the project area a rela-
tively poor landlord and one or two families of relatives work together, the
first on cattle/dairy enterprises, the latter on crop production. A second
reason would be that through the project the landlord himself should benefit
substantially from increased direct production on the farm, and this should
result in turn in a substantially better standard of life for him too. As his
exposure in terms of capital risked in sharecropping decreases substantially,
the smaller return ($50 per year in the model) would not seem to be a suffi-
cient reason to evict the sharecropper from the land.
8.4       In addition to the direct beneficiaries, an estimated 300,000
indirect beneficiaries would be reached through both the education and health
components. In these, emphasis has been placed on the young population
(paras 3.19-3.24).
8.5       The most important part of the project, and therefore the resulting
project benefits, would be centered around a comprehensive agricultural credit
operation which would represent about 60% of project costs, aimed at servicing
the 25,500 target farmers. The credit would be supervised and linked up to a
strong technical assistance program provided by ACAR, which would prepare the
farm development program for each unit as a precondition to submission to the
banks. Extension would be provided to individuals or to groups of small
farmers backed by a research and demonstration program based mainly on on-
farm agricultural experiments and demonstrations. As a result of the above
and adoption of simple technological improvements in production, substantial
increases in farm productivity are expected benefits and justifications of the
project. Estimates of incremental production due to increased productivity
are based on crop yields, and livestock technical coefficients are presented
in Chapter VII. As present average yields and coefficients are extremely low,
substantial productivity increases with technology already available and used
in the area are possible. Still, the yields used for output projections at
full development are well below modern standards of more developed areas
within the State of Minas Gerais, so they should be considered conservative.
Overall agricultural incremental output in Zona da Mata would be about 16%,
ranging from 10 to 20% on most of the project items, to 45 and 119% for
fruits and vegetables, which have excellent potential and a very narrow base.



- 56 -
8.6       The project includes reclamation of about 8,000 ha of varzea lands,
which are potentially of good quality but at present have poorly drained
soils, subject to flooding from adjacent rivers and streams during the rainy
season. The reclaimed varzeas would be intensively cultivated with rice
during the rainy season and with beans, forage and vegetables, under irriga-
tion, during the dry season. Thus, the cropping intensity would rise to
175%. Assuming that 50% of reclaimable lands are at present cultivated with
rice and the rest are under natural pasture, the annual net production value
would increase from about Cr$ 20.5 million to Cr$ 70.3 million at full devel-
opment, an increment of 243%.
8.7       One of the most important project features is that its conception
and operating policies have been entirely produced by the Brazilian experts
of RURALMINAS and SEPLAN in Minas Gerais. This has led to a close identi-
fication with the project and to an early start of operations, which were
initiated on June 1, 1976. The strong political support to the project has
been in evidence by the early legal authorization of the legislative assembly
for the government to contract the loan (July 1976), the appointment of a
project manager in June 1976 and the submission to the Bank in September 1976
of a full set of the legal interinstitutional agreements ("convenios") described
in para 5.3, which give the legal framework for project implementation.
This has permitted the state agencies to have enough lead time to produce
enough eucalyptus seedlings to supply farmers for the first year reforest-
ation plan, to hire and train some 100 new extension agents (ACAR) and to
fully reorganize the agricultural cooperative support agency, SUDECOOP.
As a result, credit operations with incremental funds are expected to reach
at least US$12.7 million well ahead of schedule by the time of Board presen-
tation of the loan in January.
Employment
8.8       The project would create a modest increase in employment in the
project area and would substantially reduce underemployment. At full devel-
opment, the incremental manpower requirements would be approximately 8,200
man-years per year on average, distributed as follows according to the pro-
ductive components:
Man-years
Crops                 4,000
Livestock             2,900
Forestry              1,300
About 66% of the manpower incremental requirements (64,600 man-months) would
take place during the rainy season and 34% (33,600 man-months) during the
dry season. The increased employment would be equivalent to 4.6% of the
permanent labor force of the project area.



- 57 -
Ecological Impact
8.9       Through better use of land, in particular pasture management, and
a substantial reforestation program (40,000 ha), a significant improvement
in soil and water conservation practices is expected. In addition, the
rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of varzea land should have a favorable ecological
impact. In all, the project would have a direct and favorable ecological
impact on from 50,000 to 100,000 ha.
Fiscal Impact
8.10      Following the disbursement period the project would give rise to
additional recurrent costs to government of US$4.9 million per annum, which
would be partially offset by additional tax revenues of US$3.7 million
per year resulting from ICM and FUNRURAL taxes on incremental production.
This would generate a net fiscal burden of US$1.2 milion per year, which is
considered to be a negligible part of government budgetary expenditures.
The improvement in the supporting services, extension, cooperative manage-
ment, and expansion of plant nurseries would account for the largest share
of the extra recurrent costs, while new permanent education and health
staff would represent the bulk of recurrent costs of the indirectly produc-
tive components. One stated project objective in this regard would be to
identify, test, and spread more cost-effective delivery systems for tech-
nical assistance, health and, to a lesser extent, educational services,
which would determine whether an increased coverage is possible, thereby
increasing the potential for replicability in other areas of Brazil.
Economic Rate of Return
8.11      The economic rate of return of the agricultural components is
estimated to be 22%. The benefit and cost streams used in the analysis are
shown in Table VII-3. The benefit stream includes the total income expected
from the projected areas in crops and forestry and the projected number of
farms with livestock enterprises. The total income without the project was
deducted in the calculations. Costs include on-farm investment and operating
expenditures as well as 100% of the project costs incurred during the five
years of the project in the technical assistance, agricultural research, and
cooperative development components, reforestation subsidies, and 80% of the
overall project administration costs. The estimation of economic benefit and
costs did not use a shadow exchange rate as, in this case, its use would have
insignificant effects on the economic rate of return. It should be noted that
this rate of return excludes the costs and nonquantifiable benefits of the
social components (health and education) and the evaluation (monitoring)
components.
Risks
8.12      Despite its complexity, the risk element of the project is considered
moderate, although it will demand a concerted effort to maintain the proper



- 58 -
BRAZIL
ZONA DA MATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table VII-3
Economic Rate of Return
(in 1975 Cr$ million)
Year          Without Project                                          Incremental
Net Income          Total Income    Total Cost        Project Costs 1/
1                   9.8                  45.8            55.8              37.6
2                  21.6                 100.0           106.2              34.4
3                  36.2                 166.4           167.0              32.1
4                  55.6                 256.2           234.6              32.8
5                  75.5                 356.1           305.5              34.1
6                  75.5                 369.4           245.4               -
7                  75.5                 386.7           244.2               -
8                  75.5                 460.2           264.7               -
9                  75.5                 495.3           276.1               -
10                  75.5                 523.9           283.5              --
11                  75.5                 528.9           283.3               -
12                  75.5                 541.5           287.8               -
13                  75.5                 434.2           257.7               -
14                  75.5                 434.2           253.9               -
15                  75.5                 477.7           266.0               -
16                  75.5                 495.1           272.7               -
17                  75.5                 512.5           278.3               -
18                  75.5                 512.5           279.0               -
19                  75.5                 521.5           281.5               -
20                  75.5                 434.2           257.6               -
21                  75.5                 434.2           253.9               -
22                  75.5                 470.5           264.0               -
23                  75.5                 485.0           268.0               -
24                  75.5                 499.4           272.0               -
25                  75.5                 499.4           272.0               -
26                  75.5                 506.7           274.1
Economic Rate of Return:  22%
1/ Includes the costs of the technical assistance, agricultural research,
cooperative development, and project administration at 80%.



- 59 -
balance among a variety of components and a substantial number of participating
institutions. The crop and animal husbandry techniques to be employed have
been successfully tested in the project area and there are strong indications
that they have been readily adopted by farmers. No major logistical or
marketing problems are expected as the incremental inputs and production are
relatively small in relation to present demand created in the large cities
b            that surround the area.  Technical assistance, both at the farmer and the
project-management level, is being provided under the project, and, despite
the complexity of the institutional arrangements, the project concept was
entirely originated and assimilated by the state government before Bank
appraisal. Probably the performance of the mechanism directed toward small
farmer and sharecropper participation as project beneficiaries represents the
major unanswered question as this will imply a departure from established
practices in agricultural lending. However, the lending of an established
amount of money to the very small farmers every year and the gradually increas-
ing participation of sharecroppers in lending operations, coupled with an
annual review by the Bank on progress achieved in these matters, would give
a reasonable guarantee that these objectives could be achieved.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.1       During negotiations assurances from government were obtained that:
(a) the selection of varzeas to be rehabilitated under the project
would be in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (para
3.14);
(b) the state rural extension agency (ACAR) would be strengthened,
including the employment by June 1, 1977, of at least 150 addi-
tional technical and professional staff to work in the project
area, and of 50 additional staff before June 1, 1981 (para 3.16);
(c) the State Superintendency of Cooperatives (SUDECOOP) would be
strengthened, including the employment by June 1, 1977 of adequate
professional staff (para 3.17);
(d) the selection of the sites for the community learning centers
under the project would be in accordance with criteria agreed
with the Bank (para 3.30);
(e) not later than June 1, 1977, SEPLAN would submit for Bank
approval a training program for cooperative and agricultural
technicians, and for vocational teachers (paras 3.32 and 3.33);
(f) not later than June 1, 1977, SEPLAN would submit for Bank approval
a training program, including the criteria on which it is based,
and evaluation proposals, for farmers and young adults to be
trained under the project (para 3.34);



- 60 -
(g)  not later than June 1, 1977, SEPLAN would provide for Bank approval
details of its plans for the selection of technical assistance
specialists and their local counterparts for purposes of carrying
out the education component of the Project (para 3.35);
(h)  not later than June 1, 1977, and every six months thereafter, the
Monitoring Unit and SEPLAN independently would furnish the Bank
reports made on the progress achieved in carrying out the project
(para 3.37);
(i)  the federal and state governments would provide adequate counter-
part funds in a manner that would ensure timely completion of the
project (para 4.2);
(j)  appropriate audit procedures would be followed by RURALMINAS and
the participating agencies (para 4.6);
(k)  the Project Unit established in RURALMINAS for purposes of the
project would be maintained and would be staffed with at least
six full-time professionals (para 5.2);
(1)  not less than 33% of project credit funds would be allocated to
farmers with less than 50 hectares (para 5.8);
(m)  SEPLAN would provide a reforestation subsidy equivalent to the tax
incentive available for the same purposes for large investors in the
state (para 5.12); and
(n)  credit funds under the project would be lent on terms and conditions
prevailing in the project area, and the Bank would be promptly
informed of any modification in the interest rate so charged
(para 5.13).
9.2       A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that the State
Government had entered into agreement with Banco do Brasil, providing for its
participation in the project on terms and conditions agreed with the Bank
(para 5.6).
9.3       A condition of disbursement for the health activities would be that
the State Government had entered into contractual agreement with the Instituto
Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao (INAN) and with Fundo de Assistencia ao
Trabalhador Rural (FUNRURAL) in which such institutions agree to participate
in such activites as proposed under the Project (para 3.19).



BRAZIL
ZONA DA IATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annex
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Situacion Institucional, SEPLAN, 1975.
2.   RURALMINAS--Legal, Organizational, and Operational Information
(3 volumes), 1975.
3.   Subsidios ao Plano Estadual para Aplicacao de Credito Rural,
Secretaria da Agricultura de MG, 1974.
4.   Regional Development Program for Northeastern Minas Gerais,
IDB, 1970.
5.   Analyse da Alocacao de Recursos por Proprietarios e Parceiros em
Areas de Agricultura de Subsistencia, Garcia, J.C., 1975.
6.   PRODEMATA--Clima, UFV, 1975.
7.   PROVARZEAS--Polo Inicial em Mtinas Gerais.
8.   Programa de Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria de Leite, Minas Gerais,
Projeto 75/247.
9.   Possibilidades de Adocao do Reflorestamento pelos Agricultores em
Diferentes Niveis de Ajuda Financeira, UFV, 1975.
10. Zoneamento Ecologico do Estado de Minas Gerais para Reflorestamento,
UDNP/FAO/IBDF, 1975.
11.  Projeto Reflorestamento--Programacao 1975/77, ACAR.
12. Programa de Extencao Rural (7 volumes), ACAR, 1975.
13.  Avaliacao Economica de um Servico de Extencao Rural Publico--o casa da
ACAR em Minas Gerais, UFV, 1975.
14. Informacoes Preliminares para a Programacao da Pesquisa Agricola,
EPAMIG, 1975.
15.  Cooperativismo em Minas Gerais (4 volumes), SUDECOOP, 1975.
16. Programa da Saude (2 volumes and 13 annexes).
17. Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural.
18. Sistema Operacional da Agricultura, Pecuara e Abastecimento, SOAPA.
19. Producao e Comercializacao de Frutas e Hortalicas, ACAR, 1975.
20. Estudo de Mfercados e Comercializacao a Nivel do Comercio Local,
Regional e Estadual, UFV-RURALMINAS, 1975.
21. Estudos sobre a Evolucao Suinicola e o Mtercado de Carne Suina em MG e na
Zona da Mata, ACAR, 1975.
22.  Uso dos Insumos Agropecuarios e sua Comercializacao na Zona da Mata,
UFV, 1971.



Annex (Continued)
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado da Zona da Mata, 1976-80.
2.   Aproveitamento de Varzeas--Projetos, 1974.
3.   Introducao-Projetos.  Composicao.  Instrumentos e Estrategia Basica.
Transferencia de Tecnologia.
4.   Sub-Programa de Organicacao dos Agricultores--Cooperativismo.
5.   Aspectos Educacionais da Zona da Mata.
6.   Rede Fisica.
7.   Organizacao e Administracao do Programa.
8.   Sub-Programa de Cooperativismo.
9.   Eletrificacao Rural.
10. Sub-Programa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria.
11. Programa de Avaliacao e Control.
12. Indicadores Socio-Economicos. Potential Economico da Zona da Mata.
13. Caracteristicas e Desempenho na Aplicacao de Credito Rural da Rede Bancaria
da Zona da Mata, UFV, 1971.
14. Zona da Mata de MG--Solos e Topografia (2 volumes), UFV, 1975.
15. Analise Economica da Habilidade da producao de Gado de Corte para
Competicao de Recursos em Fazendas Tipicas da Zona da Mata, UFV. 1971.
16. Reflorestamento--Programa Impacto para a Zona da Mata, UFV, 1973.
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings, and Maps Prepared by Bank Staff
or Its Consultants
1.   Agricultural Credit
2.   Marketing
3.   Project Evaluation and Monitoring
4.   Health
5.   Agricultural Components
6.   Livestock Development
7.   Reforestation Component
8.   Institutional Arrangements and Project Unit
9.   Education and Training
10. Rate of Return Calculations
11. Farm Model Working Papers
12. Incremental Credit Calculations
13. ACAR Technical Assistance and Research papers
14. Credit Interest Rates
15. Convenio Drafts
16. Financial Structure and other
17. Maps
18. Livestock and Forestry Papers
19. Varzeas Papers
20. Monitoring Unit papers
21. Health papers



SRI) 12448
A' I  NA,                     / R A  S                                                                 ,
-   -:V   \                            IooAo,\d   8         E         R      C                         M6C/A
NE \ \, ORZONTE  '/
Noo                                                                         \                                                                                0    ,\
['0 \                                                                                                                                                     O_,14.       I \\C
)   L     \ ~~~~~~~~@G1dBef  Vjosas                    Ffwdoveo>           <>Coin.o/<\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-   ..  .. 
-         M                                  UI    N  A  SK              MIlE-                     R
x_  W                   X  8 t  :)   /  iC->                                                                z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ncos Cerais
222         ^)Zona da Mata  Rural Development Project
PROJECT AREA
Mo45 sood-
tt 0/    (  2          9sub!-s <s-j                                                         Pr)ec~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~- lore
+    0,ontos Dqmont    Ff  q 9E/   X    >       t      9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 2./ _o,                  Fedes
9\  n  oronel  /  <  /   X           ; <       Xt'                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~-----5Sle bood ie"
ABe ,o 20, , 2 . j      JUZ DE FO       -                                                                             tF
0           T,V,2.R,,,,2,     878                82'                                                                                                             42'~~~~~~~~~~~T
41'            r                   4}\e                                     ools)P                                             F            i           F       O



