Document of
FILE COpy                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-19 30-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 29, 1976
This document has a. restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 25, 1976)
Currency Unit                       Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                Cr$11.99
Cr$l                                US$.083
Cr$1,000                            US$83.00
Cr$1,000,000            =           US$83,000
ABBREVIhATIONS AID ACRONYMS
ACAR-MG                      - Associacao de Credito e Assistencia
Rural (Rural Credit and Assistance
Agency, Minas Gerais)
RURALMINAS                   - Fundacao Rural Mineira (State Rural Development
Agency)
SEPLAN-MG                    - Secretaria de Planejamento (State Secretariat
of Planning)
SUDECOOP                     - Superintendencia de Cooperativismo
(Superintendency of Cooperatives)
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
FOR AN INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the State of Minas Gerais, with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil, for the equivalent of US$42 million to help finance
an integrated rural development project in the Zona da Mata region of the
State of Minas Gerais. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 8.7% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic manage-
ment and a buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high and
sustained income growth, strong balance of payments perform-ance and gradually
decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10%
over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% in-
crease in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the US dollar value of
exports. However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 forced a
slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With the sharp deterioration of
the country's terms of trade and the disruption of the world capital market,
the balance of payments become a severe constraint on Brazil's growth.
As a result, the pace of growth slowed to little more than 4% in 1975. In
1976, however, despite a number of measures designed to keep under control
the aggregate level of demand, it appears that growth accelerated to some
7-8%. The resulting pressure of demand has aggravated inflation and caused
the Government to seek yet further ways of restraining growth to a level
commensurate with the persisting balance of payments constraints.
4.        The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported
raw materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial credits,
have made management of the external sector difficult since 1974. These
factors caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth
of import demand was very high because, after a prolonged period of rapid
growth some key industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output.
The current account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or
2% of GDP at current prices. It widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in
1974, reflecting the sizeable differential between import growth (about 100%)
and export growth (roughly 30%) and the increasing level of interest payments
This document has a restricted distfibution and may b msd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Authorization.



- 2 -
on debt. The bulk of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the
inflow of external financial credits of considerably shorter maturity than was
generally available during 1971-73.
5.        The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the 1974 level in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, continu-
ing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
Southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key
crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export growth
as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Nevertheless,
because of import restraint, the trade deficit declined from US$4.7 billion in
1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade account was
virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflecting the growth
of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchandise
imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline prices by 25% and
continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition, as a longer term
measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. As a
result of these measures, the nominal value of merchandise imports is likely
to remain virtually stable during 1976 for the second year in succession. When
viewed within the context of worldwide inflation this represents a significant
reduction of imports in real terms under the 1974 level. Exports, on the
other hand, have expanded during 1976 so that the trade deficit may be reduced
to some US$2 billion. While the improvement is not as great as was hoped it
constitutes a significant advance from the US$4.7 billion trade deficit of
1974. The persistant, albeit diminishing, trade deficit over a period of three
years has given rise to a significant increase in the total (public and private)
foreign debt, which the Government now forecasts will reach US$26 billion by
the end of the year, up from US$21.2 billion at the end of 1975. In addition,
inflation averaged 3.5% per month in the first ten months of 1976 (significantly
higher than the rate of recent years) and this prompted the Government to adopt
a series of increasingly more restrictive monetary measures. These include
higher compulsory reserve requirements, increased Central Bank re-discount rates,
higher short-term rates of interest, and a prior deposit of Cr$12,000 which is
required of all residents of Brazil travelling abroad and which is to be held
for a year without monetary correction or interest. Parallel to these monetary
measures the Government recently announced measures to reduce the gap between
saving and investment in the public sector by Cr$40 billion (in 1977 prices)
or 2.2% of GDP with a view to limiting the expansionary effect of the public
sector finances.



-3 -
7.        Over the longer run Brazil's economic growth prospects are very
favorable but it is unlikely that growth will return to the 10% pace attained
in the 1967-74 period. Brazil was seriously affected by the changes in its
terms of trade and by the world recession in the past few years. While the
large increase in external borrowing since 1974 has permitted Brazil to
soften the effects of external developments upon the levels of domestic
economic activity, the need for prudent management of the resulting debt
inevitably constrains future economic policies. Finally, the Government is
now directing increasing attention to broadening the distribution of the
benefits of growth. All of these factors suggest more moderate growth rates
in the future, although Brazil is still expected to be among the most rapidly
growing of the developing countries. This will require, however, a continuing
large inflow of medium and long-term capital. Although below the US$5.8
billion average in 1974 and 1975, it is estimated that the average annual net
inflow of medium and long-term capital (that is, direct foreign investment and
net disbursements from official and private sources) should be on the order of
US$4.7 billion annually in 1977-80.
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estimated at 16.7%
which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of devel-
opment. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached about US$21
billion at the end of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$15 billion was in
the form of financial credits. The debt service ratio during 1975 on this to-
tal external debt was about 43% (c.f. an average of 41% in the previous 3 years)
However, it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves at the end of
1975 were still large, about US$4.8 billion, equivalent to some four months of
the 1975 imports of goods and non-factor services.    The total debt service
ratio can be expected to rise to about 44% in 1976 and may rise slightly
further in the following two or three years. However, if an export growth
rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms can be maintained over the 1975-80
period and if average maturities of new financial credits gradually improve
from six to eight years, the debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected to
return to the 44% level and can be expected to fall yet further in subsequent
years to somewhat less than 30% in 1985. Despite Brazil's heavy debt service
burden, both the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated in previous
years and the bolstering of these reserves by an increase of capital inflows
during the second half of 1976 ensure that the country will have the liquidity
to meet its debt service obligations in the short term, while the country's
record of financial management provides grounds for confidence in the main-
tenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. There can be no doubt, how-
ever, that very careful management of the external account will be necessary
in the coming two to three years.
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsiblity for its alleviation.
While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth is
necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe that the
"trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has formulated a new
policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth". To



- 4 -
implement this policy in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecessor, the Government is also taking new measures for
improving income distribution. These can be classified into three broad
areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c)
wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a favorable,
although marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to include
changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural
Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore, standard-
ized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-regions cover-
ing large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used
initially. The Rio Grande do Norte project (Ln 1195-BR approved in December,
1975) is one of the first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to
present additional similar projects for Bank consideration in the future.
11.       Active consideration is being given to a major modification in the
state value added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer
to the poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which
they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education. In
the area of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of
Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to
extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The Government is
also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the previous Government,
got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given by the National
Housing Bank to low-income housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better
financial terms than in the past. The bank is also developing a site and
services program to encourage construction of self-helped housing by families
which cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agriculture, the recently
reorganized rural extension agency will expand and strengthen its activities
directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the new federal agri-
culture research institution is defining its program to include a selection of
crops and farming-systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit
from research efforts. Overall, the Government's public investment program
for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and regional
development, which account for about 30% of total public investment. Finally,
the Government intends to pursue a more liberal wage policy to maintain the
real value of the minimum wage and improve personal income distribution. For
this purpose it has revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union
wage scale. The real minimum wage increased by 6.5% in 1975 and by 3% in
May 1976, based on the rate of inflation over the previous 12 months. In
1977 the Government may be obliged to hold back wages as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation. This
expedient of short-term economic management does not signify, however, any
change in the Government's longer term goal of improving income distribution.



-5-
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
11.       By November 30, 1976 the Bank had approved 66 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,967.5 million, of which 38 have not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing
to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and IJS$20:' million in FY76.   So far in
FY77, USS56.8 million has been disbursecd. The decline in disbursements in FY76
was due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements
are expected to increase during the next: few years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of November JO, 1976 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73-74
nine loans amounting'to US$429.7 million; in FY75, five loans totalling
US$426.5 million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million were approved.
So far in FY77 three loans have been approved: US$40 million for a second
Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project, US$83 million for a second
agro-industries credit project and US$82 million for a power transmission in
the south of Brazil. We are working actively with t:he Brazilians on the
preparation of two additional fertilizer projects, a project in support of a
non-flat steel industry, a pollution control project for the metropolitan area
of Sao Paulo, a vocational education project and several rural deve'lopment
projects.
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public: debt service would rise
in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private)
external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
140       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of November 30, 1976, IFC had made 29 commitments to
Brazil, totalling US$276.3 million, of which US$32.6 million has been can-
celled, US$23.3 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of
US$93.e5 million, US$70.0 million represents loans and US$23.5 million equity.
A summary of IFC's investments up to Ncvember 30, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern--
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is



- 6 -
to support the effort of the Government to identify and develop projects
designed to increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment
of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups,
and to alleviate poverty. By its positive impact on employment and on agri-
cultural productivity, the proposed Minas Gerais integrated rural development
project would contribute to the attainment of these objectives. The recently
approved loans for the nutrition research and development, agricultural
research, Rio Grande do Norte integrated rural development, and Lower Sao
Francisco Polders projects were also designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas. Government authorities, with the collaboration of Bank staff,
are making a particular effort to help Brazil develop additional integrated
rural development projects of this type. The recently approved water supply
and sewerage project for the State of Minas Gerais was designed particularly
to help reach low-income groups in towns and cities as would proposed sites
and services and water supply and pollution control projects. We are also
actively working with the Government on the preparation of vocational and
rural education projects.
16.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed
project will contribute to a substantial improvement in the planning, coor-
dination and project execution capabilities of the major participating agen-
cies, the local rural extension and cooperative agencies, and the state
secretariats concerned. In helping to strengthen the regional and state
development banks, the recently approved development banking and agro-
industries projects also have institutional development as a primary objec-
tive. The institution-building objective has also been important in Bank
assistance to the transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the
rational selection of investment, the strengthening of railway operations, and
the improvement of the railways' financial performance.
17.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms,of trade and
balance of payments in the past two years, this objective has been placed in
the forefront of the Government's economic policy. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the center and south of Brazil has supported this objective and
much of the Bank-supported investments in the transport sector--railways,
ports and highways--is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical
flow of exports. Also, support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. The balance-of-payments
would also be aided by Bank support of the fertilizer projects.



-7-
18.       A final objective which applies to all i3ank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in
order to sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and
regional development objectives. In some sectors, especially in electric
power and steel, the Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain addi-
tional bilateral resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Physical Environment
19.       Brazil is the largest naticn in South America in area (8.5 million
km2) and in population (110 million inhabitants) and its ecology is very
diverse. Essentially there are five main ecological zones, namely, (i)
the wet tropics, (ii) the dry tropics, (iii) the woodland savannah, (iv) the
humid temperate zone, and (v) the grassland zone. The wet tropics include
about 250 million hectares of tropical rain forest of the Amazon Basin and the
narrow strip along the east coast known as the "Mata". The latter was the
first part of Brazil to be settled and is the most heavily populated. The dry
tropics cover about 150 million hectares and includes most of the Northeast.
The vegetation is dorninated by thorny deciduous shrub and drought resistant
grasses and trees. The region includes the "Sertao", where periodic and very
severe droughts pose major problems. The woodland savannah includes about 200
millior. hectares and is known as the "Campo Cerrados" region. It includes the
Central Plateau (Planalto), whose average elevation is about 1,000 m, and part
of the Brazilian escarpment as well as the headwaters of two of the three
major river systems. The humid-temperate zone covers about 200 million
hectares of the central highlands and the southeastern escarpment. It in-
cludes a large but heavily depleted area of tropical hardwood forest on the
eastern coast and the temperate rainforest in the south. The grassland zone
includes about 50 million hectares in the south which are similar to the
Argentine and Uruguayan "Pampas", as well as the tropical tall grass prairies
such as the "Pantanal" of Mato Grosso.
Agricultural Products
20.       A wide range of crops are grown.    The most important for the domes-
tic market include manioc (cassava), maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes,
vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy products, poultry, beef and swine.
In addition, coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton, and cocoa are important for both
the export and domestic markets. In fact, three of these commodities, (coffee,
soybeans and sugar) generate 40% of the country's total export earnings. If
unprocessed or semiprocessed agricultural exports are included, the agricul-
tural sector accounts for more than 60% of the total value of exports.



-8 -
21.       Brazil is still the largest exporter of coffee in the world,
although its share of the world market has declined from 50% in the early
1950s to about 30% at present. Due to over capacity, and the large build-
up of stocks in 1966, the Government initiated a coffee eradication program.
However, after the frosts of 1969, which reduced the 1970 crop to less than
11 million bags, the Government was forced to reverse its policy. The impact
of the reversal was felt in 1974 with the production of some 26 million bags.
The severe frosts of 1975, which drastically reduced production to an esti-
mated 9 million bags in 1976, may result in coffee producers gradually moving
out of frost-prone areas.
22.       With the decline in Cuban production since 1970, Brazil is now the
largest producer of sugar in the world. Until that year, sugar production
increased very slowly, but in response to very high world prices, large
increases took place in 1972 and 1973. Due to unusually bad weather (drought
and frosts in the Center-South and heavy, unseasonable rains in the Northeast),
production declined in 1974 and 1975, yet sugar in 1974 surpassed coffee as
Brazil's principal foreign exchange earner.
23.       The production of soybeans has increased from less than 1 million
tons in 1968 to almost 10 million tons in 1975, making Brazil the third
largest producer in the world. This expansion has taken place mainly in
the States of Sao Paulo, Parana and Rio Grande do Sul, and has been instru-
mental in restructuring agriculture in southern Brazil. The area under soy-
bean cultivation is expected to increase from 5.7 million hectares in 1975
to 10.5 million hectares by 1980, and production is expected to reach 18 mil-
lion tons, with exportable surplus at 11-12 million tons compared to 7 million
tons in 1975.
Recent Sectoral Performance
24.       Over the 1967-74 period, the agricultural sector performed well in
supplying domestic demand for food and fiber as well as a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
climatic conditions in three out of seven years. The agriculture sector's
contribution to GDP has declined from 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present,
but its contribution to exports has remained significant (about 60% of the
total value). Until 1970 growth in agricultural production was attributed
almost entirely to expansion of land under cultivation and relatively little
effort was made to improve unit productivity. Inflation, price controls,
erratic Government intervention in marketing of products, overvalued exchange
rates and export controls tended to distort prices, particularly in the early
1960s, discouraging increased production and exports. Expansion of agricul-
tural activity into the interior of the country created a need for new infra-
structure to handle product distribution, but this need was largely neglected
until the mid-1960s, when overall changes in economic management helped to
eliminate some of these distortions and improve incentives for farmers.



-9-
Government Policy
26.       The agricultural strategy of the Government's National Development
Plan (1975-79) is to increase agricultural output by 40% during 1975-79.
This is to be accomplished by stimulating increased production for export
to continue the agricultural sector's substantial contribution to foreign
exchange earnings, and providing a means for raising income levels of the
rural poor. To achieve these ends the Government has: (i) allocated sub-
stantial public resources to incorporate new areas into production through
programs such as the National Integration Program (PIN) and the new
POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO programs which provide agricultural credit and
financing of transport and rural infrastructure in the North and Center-West,
respectively; (ii) promoted a significant expansion in the overall supply of
agricultural credit; (iii) reorganized federal research and extension ser-
vices to intensify efforts to improve productivity and to serve a broader
segment of the rural population; and (iv) introduced special programs such
as POLONORDESTE, which is designed to improve small farmers' productivity
in the Northeast through the formulation and execution of integrated rural
development projects. For the POLONORDESTE program alone, the Government
has committed resources of about US$2.5 billion equivalent.
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
27.       The proposed loan for the Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
would be the Bank's tenth loan for the development of Brazil's agricultural
sector. The Bank has made two loans, totalling US$66 million, for live-
stock development; three amounting to US$167 million in support of agro-
industry and grain storage credit programs; one for US$6.7 million for the
Alto Turi Land Settlement project in the State of Maranhao; one for US$23
million for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders project; one for US$12 million
for the Rio Grande do Norte rural development project; and one for US$40
million for agricultural research. The proposed loan would be the second
loan made for an integrated rural development project in Brazil. Although
still in its initial year, implementation of the first Project (Rio Grande
do Norte, Ln 1195-BR) is progressing satisfactorily. Other rural develop-
ment projects are under preparation in several Northeast states.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Area
28.       The project would be implemented in the Zona da Mata in the eastern
part of the State of Minas Gerais, and would cover an area of some 3.5 million
hectares comprising 128 municipalities (counties). The area is characterized
by a rolling to hilly topography with areas of poor drainage (varzeas) in the
valleys. No more than 10% of the project area is flat land. Temperature in
the region varies little, maintaining an average of about 220C. Rainfall
averages 1,400 mm per year, occurring chiefly from October through March with
a six-month drier period from April to September. About 70% of the area is
under pasture, practically all natural pasture. Annual crops (corn, beans and



- 10 -
rice) cover about 13%, while permanent crops (mainly sugar, coffee and fruit
trees) account for 4% of the land. Forest covers about 10% and the rest is
unused or unexploitable.
28.       During the 18th and 19th centuries, due to good climate and proxi-
mity to large consumer centers in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, agriculture in
the Zona da Mata flourished, particularly the production of dairy products,
sugar and coffee. In the last 50 years, development of the flat lands of
southern Brazil through mechanization and large-scale production reduced the
relative competitiveness of coffee production, bringing about a steady decline
in the agricultural fortunes of the region. Today it is a depressed area,
with poorly developed social services, chronic poverty, and substantial
emigration by people in search of work and better opportunities elsewhere in
Brazil. However, partially as a result of its historical background, the Zona
da Mata has a fairly equitable land tenure system under which about 87% of the
land is concentrated in holdings of not more than 100 hectares of rainfed
land, which are small-sized holdings by Brazilian standards. The total number
of farm owners is estimated at 74,600, most of whom practice some kind of
seasonal cattle or small dairy operations, complemented by food or cash crops.
In addition, some 24,000 sharecroppers engage mainly in the production of
subsistence food crops. Rural per capita income for the area was estimated in
1975 at about US$250 equivalent, which is about 25% that of the country as a
whole. Hence the rural per capita income is well below the national relative
poverty level (considered to be one-third of per capita national income) of
US$340 equivalent.
Project Objectives and Execution
29.       The objectives of the project would be to improve living standards
and incomes of small farmers in the Zona da Mata through (a) increasing farm
production by expanding the area under cultivation and raising yields, and
(b) expanding and improving social services to farmers and the general rural
population. These objectives would be achieved by an integrated project,
which would include the following elements:
(a) agricultural credit for the production of crops, livestock
(cattle and pigs), reforestation, land reclamation, and rural
electrification;
(b) agricultural support services such as extension services,
agricultural research and demonstration facilities, and
cooperative development;
(c) social infrastructure for health and education;
and
(d) arrangements to administer, monitor, and evaluate the project.
30.       The project would be implemented by the State Secretariat of Planning
(SEPLAN), as policy planner and overall coordinator, through the State Rural
Development Agency (RURALMINAS). The project concept and its concomitant



- 11 -
operating policies have been entirely produced by the Brazilian experts of
RURALMINAS and SEPLAN in Minas Gerais. This had led to a close identification
with the project and to an early start of operations, which were initiated on
June 1, 1976. It is estimated that by December 31, 1976, no less than US$12.7
million of incremental project funds will have been disbursed.
Project Components
31.       Agricultural Credit.   A crucial element for the success of the
project is the ready availability and proper administration of agricultural
credit, which represents about 60% of estimated total project costs. Such
credit would be made available to farmers and sharecroppers through one federal
bank (Banco do Brasil) and three state banks (Caixa Economica do Estado de
Minas Gerais, Banco de Credito Real do Estado de Minas Gerais, Banco do Estado
de Minas Gerais), which would distribute funds through 146 existing branch
offices. The banks would operate the credit under contractual arrangements
with the Borrower which are satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.03 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Loans to farmers would be financed in accordance
with procedures similar to those established by the Central Bank for rural
lending in Minas Gerais. In those cases where loans are refinanced by the
Central Bank, the participating banks would retain remuneration equivalent to
around 6%. Except for interest rates, any modification in the lending pro-
cedures would require the agreement of the Bank (see Section 3.03 (a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The lending terms are described in paragraph 33 below.
Production credit would be used to finance on-farm investment, mainly breeding
stock, livestock handling equipment, machinery, fencing and nursery stock and
annual working capital requirements for hired labor, consumption credit, seeds,
fertilizer, pesticides, and other seasonal production requirements. Credit
would also be available for on-farm investment in reforestation, land reclama-
tion, and for the installation of power distribution lines to provide electri-
city for home, farm and small agro-industrial use.
32.       Project credit would be incremental, i.e., the value of loans
granted to small farmers (defined in this project as those with holdings up to
100 hectares) over and above the equivalent average value disbursed by the
participating banks in the project area during the two previous years (deter-
mined to be US$18 million per year). A condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan would be that the State Government had entered into agree-
ment with the Banco do, Brasil (which wouLd provide about 70% of the project
credit funds) whereby it undertook to participate in the project under terms
and conditions agreed upon with the Bank (see Section 5.01 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). It is estimated that credit would be supplied to some 25,500
farm families (including 9,000 sharecroppers) with landholdings of up to 100
hectares. In the case of credit for reforestation, an estimated 500 partici-
pants with holdings of up to 200 hectares may also qualify. For credit granted
for land reclamation, not more than one-half such loans may be granted to
farmers with holdings of more than 100 hectares but not more than 200 hectares
(the maximum) see para. 2 of Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement. The project
would also support reforestation activities by providing assistance to the State



- 12 -
Forestry Institute in its plant nurseries expansion program. In order to
ensure that the lowest income participants benefit from the credit available,
not less than one-third of the credit would be earmarked for sharecroppers and
farm families with land holdings of not more than 50 hectares (see para. 2 of
Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement). All credit beneficiaries would be
required by the participating banks to adopt farm development programs prepared
with the assistance of the state agricultural extension agency.
34.       Lending terms and conditions of the credit component would be those
already in application in the project area under present banking procedures.
They include a complex set of rates and terms which are reviewed annually.
Seasonal production loans of more than 50 times the state minimum monthly
salary (equivalent at the time of appraisal to Cr$26,640 or US$3,134) would
carry an annual nominal interest rate of 15%, unindexed. Loans of smaller
size would carry an annual nominal rate of 13%. In addition, small amounts of
short-term credit to finance the purchase of "modern" inputs such as seeds and
pesticides would be non-interest bearing. Loans for investment purposes would
carry maturities of 5-12 years (including appropriate periods of grace),
depending upon the nature of investment, with an interest rate of 7% un-
indexed,except that partial monetary correction would be applied for those
loans requiring longer term investment (10-12 years). At present, correction
of 8% per annum is applied, subject to review and modification by the National
Monetary Council. Consistent with terms already prevailing for the project
area, loans for rural electrification would have maturities of 6 years at an
annual nominal interest rate of not less than 10%, depending upon the size of
the farm. In the case of loans for reforestation, the interest rate would be
10%, unindexed. Given Brazil's inflation rate, the interest rates proposed
for the project, which are standard for agricultural lending in the region,
would be negative in real terms. However, the overwhelming majority of
beneficiaries would be low-income farmers and the investments being financed
would be closely supervised. Agricultural lending conditions for Brazil as a
whole, particularly those for small farmers, are presently under review. This
review is expected to result in regulations that would reach a larger number
of beneficiaries, and would simplify and streamline terms and conditions.
35.       An important feature of the project is an attempt to deliver insti-
tutional credit to a significant number of the sharecroppers and small income
farmers who form a large part (89%) of the project target beneficiaries.
Under present conditions, this group has limited access to credit mainly be-
cause they lack adequate real collateral and generate insufficient income to
meet the required cost of services of agricultural extension agencies and
lending institutions. The project would aim at overcoming these difficulties
by (a) direct funding of the cost of extending agricultural extension services
to the target beneficiaries and (b) collaboration among the Borrower, the
Guarantor and the participating banks to assist and encourage lending to this
group. Toward this end, assurances were received from the Government that the
project would aim at annual lending to the specific target group (some 9,000
sharecroppers and 14,000 farmers with land holdings less than 50 hectares) of
not less than US$5 million equivalent each year, or an aggregate amount of
US$30 million during 1976-80. In order to monitor the progress made in
achieving this objective, it was agreed that the Borrower would conduct an



- 13 -
would conduct an annual review of the credit activities of the project, with
particular reference to the specified target group, and submit by November 30
of each year a report to the Bank which would form the basis for deciding upon
action required to ensure that the objectives of the project are met (see
Section 3.03 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The agreement of the Federal
Go-Prnment and the participating banks to support this initiative would be
stated in supplemental letters 1 and 2 to the Loan Agreement.
35.       Land Reclamation.   A program to reclaim 8,000 hectares of individ-
ually owned, poorly drained varzeas would be undertaken by RURALMINAS. The
project would finance the cost of land clearing equipment, to be owned and
operated by RURALMIINAS, as well as other costs such as engineering design,
surveying, labor, supervision, and construction of flood control, irrigation
and drainage structures. Through agricultural credit made available under the
project, benefitting farmers would be required to repay to RURALMINAS the
costs of on-farm investment. The State Government has given assurances that
the varzeas to be reclaimed would be in accordance with criteria agreed upon
with the Bank during negotiations (see Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
36.       Agricultural Extension.   The state agricultural extension service,
ACAR-MG, would be expanded by an additional 200 technical and professional
staff, about two-thirds of whom have already been recruited and are under-
going training. It is expected that by June 1, 1977, 150 of the additional
staff would have been recruited and deployed in the project area, the remaining
50 by the end of the project life. Assurances to this effect were received
from the State Government during negotiations (see Section 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). As far as possible, extensionists would attempt to work with
groups of small farmers thereby increasing the coverage of participants. They
would use relatively simple improved technological measures, developed through
years of applied agricultural research. In so doing, the additional staff
would help in meeting the target ratio of one agricultural extensionist per 80
farmers in the state. Social extensionists, recruited to implement the health
activity under the project, would work closely with the agricultural extension-
ists. The project would finance the cost of incremental salaries during the
1976-81 project period, training costs, vehicles and equipment. With the
costs of their new operations fully covered by the project, the new extension
staff would be able to focus on the participating small farmers rather than on
higher income farmers who can afford to pay for their services.
37.       Agricultural Research and Demonstration.    A program to develop and
demonstrate improved agronomic practices (many of which have already been in
use by some farmers for at least 5 years and are well proven) would be estab-
lished by the state research agency. The project would finance the cost of
field trials, incremental staff salaries, equipment purchases and operating
costs. Technical assistance would be provided by the state agricultural
extension service. This testing and demonstration program is complementary to
the basic commodity research which the Bank is supporting through a recently
approved loan.



- 14 -
39.       Cooperatives.   The State Superintendency of Cooperatives, SUDECOOP,
would be strengthened and expanded by establishing a new regional office in
the project area to (a) establish and promote cooperation among small farmers
cooperatives; (b) provide technical assistance to existing cooperatives;
(c) organize training courses for cooperative managers and administrators;
and (d) offer courses to cooperative members, especially on marketing and pro-
duction. The project costs would include salaries for incremental staffing,
training, vehicles and equipment. The State Government has given assurances
that SUDECOOP would receive the necessary means to support the project effec-
tively and that not later than June 1, 1977, SUDECOOP would be reorganized and
adequately staffed (see Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Health Services.   The project would include the construction or
upgrading of 275 simple health posts and 99 more elaborate health centers,
the purchase of equipment, medical supplies and food supplements, the construc-
tion of simple on-farm sanitation works, and part of the costs of incremental
salaries for the expanded health program. The State Secretariat of Health
would be responsible for implementing the health component. The program would
be directed specifically to a target population composed primarily of pregnant
and lactating women and children under 5 years of age. At full implementa-
tion, 90% of this group would be covered by the program. To a lesser degree,
the program would reach children from 5-14 years (40%), and persons over 14
(25%). The health posts would administer four basic services: (i) primary
curative health care with emphasis on maternal and child health care; (ii) pre-
liminary preventive care comprising vaccination against communicable diseases
such as tetanus, measles, whooping cough, diptheria, smallpox and polio;
(iii) improvements to sanitary conditions which would aim at reducing the
incidence of waterborne diseases (in particular schistosomiasis) and would
include 15,000 on-farm pit latrines, and 18,000 fresh water filters; and
(iv) a program of food supplementation, including the distribution of enriched
flour, beans, milk and sugar, to the primary target group of pregnant and
lactating women and young children. The food supplementation program would
be carried out in conjunction with the National Institute of Food and Nutri-
tion (INAN). Other elements of INAN's national nutrition program are also
being financed by a recently approved Bank loan. The Fundo de Assistencia
ao Trabalhador Rural (FUNRURAL) would supervise and manage the project's
health sanitation program which forms a part of the overall health program for
the state. The conclusion of agreements between SEPLAN and INAN and FUNRURAL
would be a condition of disbursement for this component (see Section 3.07 and
Paragraph 4(b) to Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Education.   As a part of the State Government's ongoing program to
expand and improve education services, the project would extend basic rural
primary education as well as agricultural and technical training opportunities
to the participating farm families. The basic objective of this activity
would be to assist the local population to make more efficient use of their
existing resources. The program would be implemented by the State Secretariat
of Education assisted by the extension services, and would include the follow-
ing elements: (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of 28 community



- 15 -
learning centers to serve 5,600 primary students and 840 students in voca-
tional training; (ii) in-service training for 200 technicians and 25 voca-
tional and science teachers; (iii) formal and nonformal short courses for
instructors in agricultural technology, farm management and related subjects
to serve 21,000 farm families; (iv) construction, furnishing and equipping of
a common facilities center of 350 student places; (v) provision of equipment
for the training of farmers in cooperative activities under the supervision of
the Superintendency of Cooperatives; (vi) provision of training materials and
supplies; and (vii) technical assistance involving 20 man-years of consultancy
services and 15 man-years of fellowships for training of vocational teachers.
Assurances were obtained from the State Government that the selection of sites
for the community learning centers would be in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank (see Section 3.09 to the draft Loan Agreement). Also,
the state has agreed (see Section 3.10 (a-c) and 3.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement) to submit, or cause to be submitted, by June 1, 1977, for Bank
approval: (a) the details of the training program for cooperative and agri-
cultural technicians, and for vocational teachers; (b) the details of the
training program, including the criteria on which it is based and evaluation
proposals, for the farmers and young adults to be trained under the project;
and (c) the details of the plans for the selection of technical assistance
specialists and their local counterparts and the fellowship program for those
who would be carrying out the proposed education activities.
Project Costs and Financing
42.       Costs.   Over a five-year period (1976-81) the project would require
financing of US$139 million equivalent, excluding taxes, of which US$20.6 mil-
lion or 15%, would be foreign exchange. The estimated costs, summarized
below, include physical contingencies of 15% on civil works and price contin-
gencies aggregating about 31% on baseline costs.



- 16 -
Summary of Cost Estimates
(US$ Million)
Local Currency    Foreign Exchange     Total
Agricultural Credit                     56.6                9.8            66.4
Land Reclamation                         5.5                1.4             6.9
Of which credit                       (4.0)               (.7)            (4.7)
Productive Support
Agriculture Research
and Development                      1.0                 .2             1.2
Agriculture Extension                  8.7                1.6            10.3
Cooperative Development                1.5                 .3             1.8
Plant Nurseries and Forestry
Development                          1.4                 .2             1.6
Social Infrastructure
Health                                 4.9                 .6             5.5
Education                              7.0                1.0             8.0
Organizational Support
Project Administration                 1.4                 .2             1.6
Monitoring and Evaluation                .9                .2              1.1
Baseline Costs                          88.9               15.5            104.4
Physical Contingencies
(15% of civil works costs)             2.0                 .3             2.3
Price Contingencies
(31% of baseline costs)               27.5                4.8            32.3
Total Project Costs                    118.4               20.6            139.0
li3.      Financing.   The proposed Bank loan of US$42 million would finance
about 30% of total project costs, the balance to be provided by the Federal
Government through the participating financial institutions. The loan would
cover the full foreign exchange costs of US$20.6 million equivalent, as well
as US$21.4 million equivalent in local costs. In a country like Brazil, which
is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it appears appro-
priate for the Bank to give some assistance in the financing of local currency
expenditures on projects which, like the present one, have very high priority
and yet have a very low foreign exchange content (in the present case 15 per-
cent). This situation typically arises in agricultural projects in Brazil in
view of the high capability of the Brazilian economy for the production of the
inputs required for investment in this sector. If the Bank is to be effective
in supporting a project of this kind it seems reasonable for it to contribute
at least 30 percent of the costs even though this entails financing some local
currency expenditures.



- 17 -
During negotiations, assurances were received from the Federal and State
Governments that adequate funds would be available for the effective and
timely execution of the project (see Sections 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement
and 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). In addition, the Federal Govern-
ment gave assurances that the participating banks would not be prevented from
making adequate credit available for purposes of the project (see Section 3.02
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
44.       Procurement.   Farm inputs financed under the credit component would
be procured through normal commercial channels. Food supplements, instruc-
tional materials and office supplies would be purchased according to local
procurement procedures which are satisfactory. Due to the relatively small
size of individual construction works and their geographic dispersion such
works would be contracted through a combination of local competitive bidding,
force account and self help. Because of the need for specialization and local
servicing, equipment (including vehicles) for a total value of about US$1
million equivalent, would be procured through local competitive bidding,
advertised only in the national press but not excluding foreign suppliers,
many of whom are represented in Brazil. Foreign consulting services would be
contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
45.       Disbursement.   The Bank would reimburse SEPLAN for 30% of all
approved project expenditures. The credit portion of the project would be
financed from the normal resources of the banks participating in the credit
program, including rediscount facilities from the Central Bank. The Bank
would disburse to the Borrower, the Stateb Government, an amount equal to 30%
of the incremental credits made by these banks upon certification that the
credits had been disbursed. The funds thus disbursed from the Bank's loan
would be retained by the State Government to finance part of the balance of
its contribution to the project. For the most part, disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure with full documentation retained for
ex-post review by Bank supervision missions. In the case of expenditures for
permanent fixtures, equipment and installation, detailed documentation would
be required prior to disbursement. Expenditures for a total value of not
more than US$3.8 million equivalent made between June 1976 and the signing of
the loan would also qualify.
46.       Auditing.   RURALMINAS, through the State Secretariat of Planning,
would submit within four months of the end of its fiscal year, annual audited
financial statements prepared by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Other participating agencies would submit to the Secretariat of Planning, for
transmission to the Bank, within four months of the cLose of each fiscal year,
audited statements of expenditures of project funds. The State Government has
given assurances that the audit procedures would be followed (see Section 4.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Organization and Management
47.       SEPLAN would serve as policy planner and overall coordinator for
the project. RURALMINAS, the technical arm of the State Secretariat of
Agriculture, which has been responsible for the preparation of the project,
would be the executing agency coordinating day-to-day project implementation.
RURALMINAS has been in existence since 1955, has a large staff engaged in
settlement and general agricultural development activities, and has already
established an administrative unit to undertake the project. The 39 federal
and state agencies involved in implementing different aspects of the project
have entered into administrative agreements with RURALMINAS for carrying out
the respective parts of the project. The Federal University of Vicosa, which
is located in the project area, would be responsible for monitoring and eval-
uating the project. This would include evaluating the impact of the project
on agricultural production and farmers income as well as the impact of the
social components. RURALMINAS has established a project unit with a full-
time project Manager directly responsible to the Director-General of RURALMINAS.
Because of the complexity of the social components of the project, the State
Government has appointed special health and education coordinators who report
directly to the State Secretaries for Health and Education. In addition, in
order to strengthen RURALMINAS and SEPLAN, the State Government has given
assurances that by June 1, 1977 they would conclude (through SEPLAN) an
agreement with the Instituto Latinamericano de Planificacion (ILPES) for
technical assistance for project management, including provision of approxi-
mately 300 expert-months (see Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Beneficiaries
48.       The main benefits of the prDject would be increased agricultural
production and higher incomes for small farmers and sharecroppers. This
would be accomplished through increased yields on 65,800 hectares of land
presently under cultivation, and the expansion of cropped lands through
reclamation of 8,000 hectares of varzeas. Production would be increased on
approximatley 3,300 dairy farms and 220 swine-breeding and fattening units.
Newly established eucalyptus plantations on 7,900 farms would provide large
quantities of timber for local building requirements, wood pulp for the
local paper industry and charcoal for the steel industry. Overall, the
annual incremental aggregate production in the Zona da Mata resulting from
increased production and better productivity should amount to about 16% at
full development.
49.       The financial rates of return that participating farmers can expect
have been calculated on the basis of six farm models representative of the
crop, livestock and forestry enterprises to be financed under the project and
these range from 16 to 29%. In the case of the sharecroppers, the financial
rates of return would average around 29%. The price and cost sensitivity of
the models was tested under various assumptions to obtain the best estimate
for each model. On the basis of the weighted average of the six models the
average annual family income of project beneficiaries after full development
would be 60% over the present level, and would approximate US$390 per capita,
or roughly US$2,060 per family. The project's important institutional and



- 19 -
social benefits are virtually impossible to quantify. Therefore an estimation
of the overall economic rate of return was made taking into account only the
costs and benefits of the agricultural component (whose cost is estimated at
US$116 million equivalent). On that basis, the economic rate of return is
estimated at 22%.
50.       Direct beneficiaries of the project would be the 25,500 (16,500
small-scale owner-operators and 9,000 sharecroppers) participating families.
Of these, 89% are farmers owning or working less than 50 hectares, with aver-
age annual per capita income of around US$250, which is below the relative
poverty line. The remaining 11% with holdings up to 100 hectares have per
capita income of a slightly higher amount. While more striking conditions
of poverty can be found among, say, the landless migrant workers of Northeast
Brazil, there is no doubt that the project beneficiaries are poor by both
Brazilian and international standards. Indirect beneficiaries, estimated to
total 300,000 people, would be reached by the education and health components.
The project would result in appreciable expansion in employment, around 8,200
new permanent jobs, representing an increase of 4.6% in the present work force
of the project area. It would also help to reduce underemployment.
Project Risks
51.       A risk associated with the project would be the difficulty in
achieving smooth working relationships among the many institutions involved in
the project. However, since most project activities would be undertaken by
existing experienced agencies, and since the State Government has already
implemented the most important measures to insure proper coordination of the
project, this risk does not appear unreasonable. Another risk would be
whether the proposed mechanism to ensure that credit reaches the really small
farmers and sharecroppers works effectively since it represents a departure
from existing practices. The Bank has however received assurances from the
Central Bank, and the participating banks, that determined efforts will be
made in this direction. In addition annual targets have been agreed for
specific amounts of money to be lent to specific types of beneficiaries, and
it has been agreed that such targets will be reviewed annually. With such
assurances it is believed that reasonable steps have been taken to achieve
the desired objectives of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the State of Minas Gerais and
the Bank and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic
of Brazil and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft Loan Agreement of
special interest are described in paragraphs 31 to 46 of this report.



- 20 -
53.       A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that the state
had entered into agreement with the Banco do Brasil providing for its
participation in the project on the terms and conditions agreed with the
Bank (see Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). A condition of dis-
bursement for the health component would be that SEPLAN had entered into
agreement with INAN and FUNRURAL (see Section 3.07 and para. 4 (b) of Schedule
1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
December 29, 1976



AlNNEX I
Page I of 4~ pages
DRAZIL      - CESAL INOICTORO DATA $HEET
L AND AfteA (THOU KMal)                   ..e........fb.......
....                                    BRAZIL                                REFERENCE COUNTRIFS (1970)
TOTAL  0012.0                              54057~~~NOS  RECENT
AII2IC.         ..1960                              1970    ESTIMATE           MEXICO          URUGUAY        JAPAN 4
GNP PER CAPITA (U15                        -000-----100                                 78.. .0     960.0(     260.0
4OPULIATION AND VITAL SYATtOTICS
POPULATION (HWYR.  IILLION)    ~~~~~69.o    92.8       107.0                50.4L        2.7        104.3
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           8. 0       11.0        13.0                26.0         15.0       202.0
PIOt SQEAE M0. AGOIC. UII               51.0        66.0                             ;2.0        18.0      1575.0
VITAL STTISTIC
CRUDE BRHRAT       PE  TOUSAND          40O.8       38.4s        37.1                4~3.8       22.1        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER i HOUSAND          111.7        9.9          8.8                10.2         9.2         7.1
INFANT m ORTALITY RATE (1THOU)         180.0       110.0           ..68.5                         *.         13.1
LIFE ExPECTANCY Ar BIRTH (YR5)          56.0        59.7        61`.I~              61.0         69.3        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.6         2.6          2.5                 3.1         1.Q         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RkTE (8)
TOTAL                                    3.0         2.9         293.4                            0.7         1.0
URBAN                                    5*5         5*0         4.3                  4.8         1.?         4A.0
JRBAN POPULAT.ION (I 'If TOTAL)           46.0        56.0         59.1                58.7        78.1        8I.4I
AESTRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 1A YEARS                          0 3 .0      42. 0       L1.7                 4~6.2       28.3        24 .0
15 TO 64 YEA RS                         sa*0        s5.o        55.1'                50.1        63.5        68 9
65 YEARS AND OVER                        3.0         3.0         3.2                  3.7         8.2         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RAIO                          9         o.          0.8                 1.0         0.6
ECONOHIe DEPENDENCY RATIO                  16           15.                             2.0          .0         0.6
FA4ILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS (CURULATIVE. THOU)..                     200.                              55.5
USERS (I OF '4ARRIE5 WOMEN)               .          1.6           ...
EMP'LnY'ENT
TOTAL LAORo FORCE (THOUSAND)           227 00 .0   29600.0           .             13D00.0       1020.0     51330 0 .0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULYURE 15)            52.0        48.0           .                 40.0        17.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED IX OF LABOR FORCE)               ...                       ..                             .0 /a      1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
C OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY.
Kamm   T0 TOr OUEHLD m                   j.0 o/a     62.0 7                           7.8        19.04/      1 4.2
.                   6~~~    ~   ~~~~~~3. 2  47 .5  37.6
L~~~~ST2~~I0F~~~US2H0LW         IA~~~5.0   6 3.0                                       1 .  4A       .
IDMST 40% 0i? IDUSDDLD                  1 2.0L       1.0           :102                          10.2        22.3.
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
I OWNED By TOP 108   OF OWNERS'             ..        &.0                              37.1
X OeNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS               ..          .5                             0.3
.IEOLT,- A4D NUTRITION
-OPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                2170.0      1950.0       1660.0 /a           I1 4 0 .0    880.0       RRaO.I0
POPULATION PER 41URSIMG PERSON               .      33o00 .o    2920.0a              1 570. 0     3340.0      2400. 0
'OPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              275,0       2b0.0           .                930 .0       150.0       80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLYROF 
CA LORIES( OOF REQU7REMENTS)           102.0       109.         1i.0ct0.                        107.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 61.0        64:00        65.o:0c             65.0        96.0        76.0
.ClP HNICH4 ANIMAL AND PULSE          38. 0       39.0           .                26.OLS.      64 .0       45. 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-0                  ....                                       9.8         1 .3         1 .0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         1 000         87.0        71.0/ dA           106.0       110.0        101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        11.0    ~    28.0L/d     71..0 r-            23.0        59.0         91 .0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                13.0        13.0         13.0                12.0        12,0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                        19.0        17.0         to 0i               20 .0       21.0    ~    0.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (11                   61.0        68.0           ..76.0                        91.0        q9.0
HOUSING
";;;;;NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                              I .0       I1.1 /a.             2. 2                     1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITH0UT
PIPED HATER (8                            .          73. 0 /c    67 .0 6~,.e         61. 0                     S, .   .0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
II OF ALL DWELLINGS)                      .         48.0         53.0A &.             9.0
RURAL DwELLINGS CONNECTED
YO ELECTRICITY (8)                         ..          . 0       it1.01/a            280.0
C0ASUMPTION
fIADIO RECFINERS  IEPE THOUJ POP)     66.0        60.0         61.0               276.0       306.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARE (PER THOuI POP)              7.0        25 .0       31.0t                24.01       15.cl       8L.0
ELECTRICITY IXWHHYR PER CAP)              325.0       L91.0       66L .0               567.0       762. 0     3391.0
VEWSPRINT (K~G/YR PER CAP)                  3.3         2.7         2.6                 3.1          7.0        08.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AMNEX I
page 2 of 4 pagee
NOTES
Unleen otherw,ise .oted, d.ta for 1960 refer to sany year bet.een 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwe.n 1968 and 1970 and for Moat Recent lEtioutat between
19 73ad1975.
0*Japan has been selected as..a objective country since the Brazilian Go-r-ment has show       particular interest in Japan's dee-lop .n.ta1 experience;
also the two9 ovron-nte hove conducted Joint studies to identify po...Ible future economic problem of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan.
BRAZIL       1960        E oonoolcally active poplation;    .Lb  7-10 an  11-17 years of age reepectiveIy.
1970    L    Economically active population,     .Lb  Hospital personnel;    /    Inside only;    Lid 12-18 year of age.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    Ia  1972;    .Lb  1971;    Li. 1969-71 averag;      /d   7-14 and 15-17 years of age respectively;      /a  Inside only.
mEXiCO       1970    /s1964-66;       L.b I.aida only.
URUrUA)      1970        KaSotevideo only;    lb  1967.
RISO, Deoneb.r 27, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lund Arra (thou lot2)                                                            Pepulartlon. pe,rmnreina pereon - Population divided by   uaber of practicing
Torol1   Total surface srea conpriing land are.an ed inland waters.                mae      In feml g.raduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" euss,ad
Agric. -Most recent estimaste of ogricuIt.rs1i aree und temporarily or             ancilry personnel with traieing or experience.
poreaccocly for crpe, pauturca, market & kcitchec gardens or to lie            Poueinprbuita1 bad - Pop.1ation, divided by noober of boopitoI bad.
fallow,                                                   eveilable in pub~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:liad private gen..rai e nd epci alised hospital and
rehabilitation centers; emcludes nrsoring home and eetabliehmet. for
HX  u  cacita (US$1 - GUP per ca.pita e          tiae   a torrent narket prices,  csoiladpeetv              ae
calclatd by sam   cooversIonathod a World Baok Atlaa (1973-75                Per capita supply ofZclories (. of ranuirenata) - Coaputed from onergy
bouiu), 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                 equivalent of net fen8eppie      ava"ilable in cometry par capita per day,
avilable supI e cotaprina dmomeetir production,, inporte less enportn,
Popul.tioc and-ita1 statietci                                                     end changIn in stck; eat supplies esnuda animal feed, seeds, quanti-
P'op.l.tion (.id-yr. oilimon) - 6   of July first:  if not available,               ties used in food processing and IUsanee  In distribution; requiremets
averge  f Ow  en-ye-ar  s iets  1960,17     n   197  dte                     wrn etimated by FAO base d-on physiological usedn for norma      actriry
--ge  f t.. ..d  I   0,1970 ..d     975                      ::~~~ad health oniderieg enironmmt.1 temperatrer, body weighte, age an,d
ens distributIons of population, and allowing 10% for wante at bouehId
Poculotico denoIy - par ououro los - Midy..er population per square kilo-         Feleve l.t,spl      fpoen(rceprdy                 rtt      otn
metur (100 hecta real of total area,                                            Pr capit sueyo         rti     aaaprde            rti      otn     f per
P'oPc1atic  densit  - Per lusre lkm of asric, land - Computed .s abov    for        capita net sspply of food per day; net supply of food is defined so
agricultural land only.                                                           above; requirements for all couacrime eetabliehed by USDA Econmic
geeearch larvIne   proide Per a mOntan    allace    0P A     - m   oftoa
VI,.) statistics                                               ip.~~~~~~~~~~~rosi  per day, and 20  r-s  ef aniIma  and pulse protein, of hbih
C~rcd,_birth rateprtosn         - Annua lIve1 births per thou.aan  of .id-           10 grea should be animalI protein, these ntandards are Issur then those
.'yoor PopuIetion, ten-year eithontic avstagee ending in 1960 and 1970,             of 75 gr-n of total protein end 23 gren    of animal protein ae an
a.d fiv.-year. averaqe en    Inin 1975 for mat-recent satimtle.                    average for, the word, propneed by FAO in the Third World Food lS.vey.
Crude dath rot ou-r thousan.d.- Annul.deaths pkth-uaad. of mid-year                PR aiapoen          unyfoaia            n   ue      Prott  Iaupl     f fond
jo    ltion,7 te-year artmeti      a veragee ading,f 1960 and1970, and              deLrI~ved fprom ans al aPd pulses i, grosd per day.
five-yea   average eoigin,1975 f6r maui, recent saCIifatA.                       Death rote. (/then) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths par thousand in age group
v.an  oraltr.r  (/thou) - Annual.death. of infants noder One year of         1-4 years , to children in thisaoge group; auggested as an indicator of
080 far cho.... d live births.                                                     malnutritio..
Life -co-cc-ny at birth lyr,) - Average nuaber of yearn of life rnn.ainie
.tc birth, usua lly five-year .avraes.  nding in. 1960, 1970 and 1975 for        t4gi!0%nl        ntrio
deve~1Plopig coontries                                                            Hjuoated erlnntrte            rismar, school - Enrollment ef all agee me
Crssrerdct'ion rate - Average snmber of live daughtrer a--omae will              percentage of primary ehslaepopulation, innludee children aged
bear in her eurnal reproductive period if she ecperiencee praenet age-             6-li yeare-but.adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
epocific forti lity rates, uoualy fi-e-year averaseoending In 1960,               for cootries with omiereal education-, enrollment may eaneed 100%
1970 and 1975 for developing coontriee.                                            sice,.masnepupile ar.'bels, or above the official school age.
Pocp.h.c-   grouth rtev (7) - total -Compound annual1 growth rates of aide         Adiusted'enrollment ratie.- secondary school - Computed as above;
year p.pulation for 190-60,16-0 a7       d 197075.                                 eecendarycedunation;requir.a at'leat four yearn of approvd primaory
Population olrowh rots (7.) - urb.c    Conputed liko growth rate of total            intruction; pruvtdeo general, vocatioua1 or teacher training
puoulotioc, difietrsat definitions of urban, sreas may sffect conpara-             Instructiosn  for pupils of 12 to 17 yearn of age; correspond...e
bility of data a"ong coontr ies.                                                   cour~ses are genera11y.exciuded.
Urbao p.puiati.n ft, Of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;              Yfeare of flch.olininprovided ffirstsnod second levle) - Total yearn of
different deflnitionu of urban areau sy aYffect conparability of data              schooling; at.eeendary level, vocational instruction may be par-
amonicounirten.                                               ~~~~~~~~t ia I -rnomletly excluded.
coo utrotufe (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), uoihng-age,(15-64 years),          voctoa      nolet fZ of secondary) - Vocational Institutione
and reitied (65 yearn and over) an percentages oi41nid-yar Ppoplation,             include.tecbni.al, indus trial or other progr-m which operate
All, depeo.denc  ratio - URatio of populotion oundr 15 and 65 and over to             independently -or a. depernta.t of ...oond.ry institutione.
thos  ofages15  hruugh 64.                                                   Adult lit.r.or rate(.) -Literate adults (able to read ad write) as
icononic d    epedency ratio - Notio, of population under 15 and 65 and over           percentage of total  dult population aged IS years and over.
totelbor force is age group of 15-64 yeorn.
F=ily planning - sceot.r. fc,anI.ti-e thou) - C-nlative n-ober of                   Hous Ing
acceptors of birth-control devices   -nder auspices of national fanily           Person  per roome- average) - Average nnbar of persons per rome In
pl,anniof progr!n since inception,                                                  occpid     onvetional dwellings in urbae -rsa; dwellings occlude
fe_ily planning   cors7. of married womn) - Percentages of married                    noncupied cn   eutue       n'ouuidprs
woe  fchild-bearing age (15-44 years)who uce bir th-control devioa           Occupied dwllns      ihetpie      water (1) - Occupied conventional
to oil married   coen. in sane age group,                                           dwellings i-urbanmad rural, ereas without ineide or outside piped
wo.tertfacIlities ao percentageof,all cc.up ied dwllings.
_npl___.._t                                                                         Accei toeetrct         (7. of allIdwel.maa   - Covetional dwelings i
Total labor force (thousand)-Econmical ly active persona , including                  wth electriciny In living quartrer es percent of total duelngei
Marmd for.ea and oun-plyed hot e-ldnghueives, students, etc.;                       urban and rural aresa.
deilnitiono to vsros     onri  essenot coparable.                                 eAlrdwellings conneted to electricityi)- Coapotad a.shaove fur
Labor force in agriculture t)-Agricultural labor force (in f.arming,                   ruraldeligsoly.
fo.1restry (hunting and fishing) as percentage of total lsbor force.
_nonIovod (7. oflabor force) -    oM-pboyed ere usually defined as perason          ganto
.ho ore ob- and toilling to take a Job, out of a Joh on s given day,              1!d5!rceiere (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
remained Out of a Job, and u.eking tootk for a specified ninimome period            casts to general public per thousand of population; eseludes
nut ...ceeding Me week; nay not be cmparable between couosties due to               unlicensed recivrs in countries end in years w,hen registration of
diff....ot def initIons ofunomployed end uource of data, e.g., employ-              radio nets was In effect, data far renent years may not be comparable
_et Office statictics, eanple survys, compulsory unemployment ineuranog.            since mot cotatries abolishad licemaing.
Pasener ar    (pe.r then. pop) - Passenger careaemaprise motor cars
I.con. distribution, - Percentage ef private inco,me (both in cash and kind)          saigless the       eightrpaeon     xcludes ambulances,. hea..e end
received by ric~hest It. richest 201. poorest 201, and poorest 40% of               military vehicle..
households.                                                                       ghLetricit (bhyr par cap) - Annual       mosomptiom  of industrial, co--
mrcia,publi     and private electricit-y In kilowtt hours per capita.
Diatribution of land ownrship - Percenteges of land ownd by wesithient                gene.rally base.d on Production data, withontalo    nc   for looase  in
lit. and poorest lOt. of loand onr.gride but all1wing for imports sod eparts of electricity.
No-eprint (ha/yr pet cap) - Per capita annual coneomptlon in kilogreas
Health and Nutrition                                                                  eetimated from doesttic production pins set Laporte of newprint.
Popu':latin pvcr physician - population divided by n-mber nf practicing
Pbyiian     _uaif led from    medical echool at uni-arsitv le,el.



Et.t 3 of 4
EC.COtf 0 OtEtPC02IT 8.03  SI1 EET  10
A-to1           Et.-        Pr  ooe--tt, h           a
197    1974    ff75    1976     I980    1985   1096-73  1937907-0  9003    f7     7976   7900  ff05
Iroos  ttc.eeatfo  Erotfote  ~~~~~77.8ff  tS,St  tf9  93:,323  ff,89  lt.t0 9  7 0  6_ f  A 0  oo 0  103 A  3  9  f172
3.  Cros. Do-tett  Itott  77.d91  84,7  87,044  92,745  ff:72,77  179.03 113    0    6     8 7     f80.tt  100 0  704.0  000.0
4.  foporto     7,577  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~  ~ ~~~~9:,757l  8,847  7.5  9.03  3 7,8  270 09Sf 84N7        87    7      7 0
tIo- -  oos           ,8     ,76    7296,2           11.757  I7.944   12 1   7I    9. 3  8.8     85     8 9   10 0   00.0
Etors-TOAd6'ed8,96           5 .515  5,302  564      8.393   14.,138   6 9  -4    tof84  tf. 0   B.5    8.I 
7 Rsoocof(d4-890          4.43    .45    I.1        7       9                                  ,            0 7    C21
8  Cooao I'llo         61,329  66.866  89,708  7 3.23  88.58  73fl.07    9 9   6 0   4.9   8 2     79.    79 0   75 3  73 
9  froo- =              57t fo.343 2ff946  78,38  27.' E ,I423  30,003D  4 7,772  tO  a  7 3  8 8  41  0223  2 3 7  25  5  2 6 3I
00  fotnfSott           3,3     6953  18.86   7,03     0,93    45.57     8     4 8   10.0  707  07        19 4   23 3  25 
ft  Orororoc tartoto  fATAl~~~~~~~~~5  17 ,706  17,0358  79 .3:2  29,3  707 7  8 t   02      2      10     2      6
Cora,,rorloodt  7735   1,638  7,358 1.346      7,64    3.l4            6.2   32    70      70     'I2    80    7
Peorolo,.too,l Oerloottooa  727  2,873  fONt  3.740  5,878  8,789  370  7ff  ff0  773  ItO  370  305  2365  0
fotD- ot  (P8        ,9     344    219     0,4      218,2   382457         247 8301.3   05o  5  too o 00 8    40    O
CotOc             7.3I    880    9302   3,202438.0 123                   16    -1 31         317     7 2   1
Other Ogoto.. Itoro I Goodo  3,404  3,415  7.479  3.023  7,382  18.883  92 2  7 f  24.9 178 2  38 02  28'ID  Il6  30 2  3  I  3  3 I' 
-d                 27to39  841  2,7     7,'4     2,37,6            20   3.0   34     134            0 
OCoT/tdOt/ro,lfood-  0,763~~~~~I  108  2,388  4 2,87   ,t8  73 ,407  3726  350  0.1  209I  220   284    27014  1
D8  f      0        0021            55      7.  2 37g   f 7    7       2      30    70 ,   4
C Ooiol 6-.2         4 790 ' 7,99  8,632 3  7 10,11   9,2037  43,373  29 0  Il2 1  4  7  7    70  030       O 
I  g -rtfr            73. 6  1  1,I12137 130  1  740  1 392  277     387   3.8    63.   37 5   100    1.0    10     0
2  tooar                 333     28-30          337      34      351tOT        74    53    8
575  320  332  53,4  52.0   529    ~~~~   ~~~   ~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~106  764  6.5  Ed1 21 221 1
3.  Eoroe  PrIor  rdoo  70   138-83          7360 34          360    73I5 79  32  7 60   82D,7      
Irport Proro  rIot  ~~~~ ~~~~~1005  2356  2307  19047  2431473   87    331I  160    640      0    2  1   2
3  Tr,,oooofradotodoo  tOO~~~~~~~~61  9  2. 74   67  3f   725     -2    tOO    15    7726           10 
4  0000001  Prtoa  lodro  700~~~~~~~6Ig  72'95I   ' 5 164  -  9 23  ,3 3-2.  -  77  -1  I-I  10      0     0
5.  600060EOoI-l- tte-10          II     133 3  . -  -.,-                  - h-..- -
loOt              7 80   9.40   4  10    2.88                  1  fofol  lOIIltoo.7 2I  22 14657I386545
2  ArrgNtrtaoTott          2      19    72       ,.76                 1.3  lodo3oryttl     7308    778
4.D. glotP toolorr-  Rt    031      09     437313.                         foote  ()         33      39
5  E  Peoporto/CEP        0  078  t      .2 8     07     17      2,      1 17 
4C.   __9lo  P _ror  30d  for   o  8
I  Selected  indic.,tars  1~~96.73  t974-7  197w848 i           F   ~   - -1"1 707
t  iCooo  tcaro           7      1740   700    f7   1I                    .,l   til.. L 9ItOS 2olIt5lor
It  So  io,                0      -It    09     ff                   O4LNPOfC508           .1837D ta  odE
23 0A000011opood  2t  rIa_3  4                                                             14  5O3  8 
40  . "1  ... PuItSoo   ItocS--tottroa o 11,  17  t3  - DSootl            Soetora           4,50     103
11 229  21  21~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~6,rotrelO 
Public Finance It  F--   f C., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Torrofan  looo,lOttr.  ,3/  I 
1873   1974    t9f5                        Rotro  locoocr          44 
11I  4  11I~ ~ ~~~~~~01c /                            Li.      371
3. Ae IroE..           2 1     1,,  94  3.006                        28
8.  Othar   F.,ICPf~   F -l  76 0  16 7  78.4                        Ooooat1   Oo- oo-       5t,    01 9
toa                     leorot3,8  tOOT
37  Podaro I Goocortoor                                              Ooroe,6c0  31,  1976~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.   /  1  7   :311
0/  fnof,daa  Ofoorroof  IrocototeotI  9-                      T l  ... ll,,          3 , 8,   10 



BALNCE OF PA OT,CT8~6        SITNEAND DEBT."                                              ANND I
O. II "... .1  S. d'II".                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of A
1971       19 72       1973       1974       1973                                  1976                           1987198
A. toat of WOLD of Paomaot
1.  EspOrBe tINs1. BPN(                    ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~3,7  4,272  6,596  8:,4B     9,255                              10,771                          20,749             46,841
2.   EpOrt   (IO.   P)                                     ,2         5,2     5    767T    l4.B        14,296                               14,218                          22,1              AN,274
3.   Baso..ro -Eas....                                     -953        -933         Al      -.27        5 B04                               -347             .-               ,1                ,
4.   ee- Fasro  Seroo brI.-                                -468        -561       -734        -91T     -1,711                               -2,212                          -3.A'S             -4, 95
1. ties Internal PeyneeBs                 -302~      ~~~~~      ~~~ -359  -514  -652  -1,639                               -1,955                         -3,116             -4,7
2 Brt    "ONBOB     BM                                  -(8         -1I         -9         -248       - 235                                -237                            -350               -565
3DB,ar, Fo-so Serolce I.-O                               -4B          4          -22        -16        -37                                   2 50-so                                           -20
5.   Corse- Tronstefr- 79.I7                                14            5         27           I          -                                   DO                             ID                 If
B.   Bala-so. on..o.reo  A...o..                         -1,307      -1,489      -1,688     -7,122     -6,751                             -5-3649                           -4,7Bs             -3.3al
7.   Prlc... Diretloe-   on                                 188         318        940        89 7        890                                 950                            1,455             2.340
8, I,s',,soasa411                                                     4 25       56          47         97                                1,0(0'                          1,395169
9    Aoosta                                                 212        -199        -21'7       19I       -9273                               -462                             -552             -1,19
lB    Be BIlab .o.... ,                                      199         231 7      345        756         634                                 548                             945                491
It.   Dteb-rse-Ist                                        -1,876       4,0191     3,998       9.680      5,974                               6,459                            75335              9,569
I12   Aiot aIS-91I                                                    -1,21       -l.29      -1,7~16    -1.868                              -2,0DB                            5.346              7, 345
13.  No   Dibrene995                                                   2BBI       2469        4,364      4,106                               4,451                            2,499             2,:224
14    Dsol      aoco48                                                    47                      7          -
15  Ibort-tero Capital Transatltoos          ~~~~         ~~~507  47  -130      464         424                                lOOD0
16  CapItal TeaNeon ions Nfl                 -81~        ~~~~       ~~~~      ~ 391  243  -285  .25
61   ChooI      rasa    -looa)50                                      -243       -2,179        93         950                               -1,300                               --1,674
(nd ofPeId)                                          2.019       4,457       6 636      3,70D      4,750                                6,050                           6,050             11, 319
.  Tota  M42. Lo..                                     2,526       5,203       496        7,012       7,180                                                                   AC39AL
'a. BI                                                   256         455        199         140        426            DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                     1972      1973      1974       1975
1 2. 1DB                                                    108         182        242         181        215
1 5. Gos__t.ot                                             225         390        440         475        525   A   Bedl- so     t-Tr Db
14.  Soppll.re                                             496         694        957       1,088      1,376           (Dlsborsd'oslp)
1I5. B449                                                     -          96         37          25          -
1.86. Fl=octl C-edfta                                     1,441       3,3 96      3.151      5,'103     4,638       1, sT-l   IoN 0,telatAlog (aDd of pestod      9,21     12,571     17,166    21:171
1,  PiBonclal CredIts       5.529     ~~~~   ~~~~7,4  11.211   4,561
f.  ttoneracdoo Is,,.                                                              1  Bthara 1811 .84161. ,Bosds,torpllarsl  3.993    4.723      5,955     6,610~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~998  4 283 I':
3. DrllsadPutty%-std                               - 6:496    8,5313    191461
1.    rs    leeto Totl~ coiaet                               .           .          0.5l       0.5        2.5           4.? P   -ste-                                       6.5       8,33       9,1
0.    DAr_oIt_ose     -PeDet                                6.5         7.4        1,          9.5        9.5        2  Total Debt Se-tre                         1,887     2,586~     3,277     3,9415
3.   A--rgs Bos-rty (Tear)                                  6.1         6.t         7.2        9.0        9.9            1  Tota       ...asa                       489       847      1,370     1, 804
2   Net Ittra                              359        514       652      1439
QOtat-diso D.oneba  31. 1975                      3  PobIIc  bleb S-jo-t                         --         --      1. 287    1,550
F. Oot.o176       DsosdOl)As,unt                                                                 P__-__
1. IBID                                                        1,094                             5.2
0.Otlhs-   otl tr                                                416                             2 01                    TtlDBSroeaIo44.2                                     39.        38.7      42 6
53  Dot,,sott                                                  2,567                            12.1                 2   Toa   ebt StoeI    aI                      479       42.        41.6      4.
4  Soppllasa                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,98         9.3                 3.  P blic Dsbt Srvloe Batlo                     -         -         5.2       16 27
5  BAnda                                            16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1             0.8                 4. LiqoldIty Rotto3l                           25.4       22.0      31.2      3 
6.  Plostll f,edtss                                         14,3161                           68 a                 5. Tot., Dabs  irscioS                           3.2       3.3       3.1        3.2'
7   Dtbe                                                         392                             1.8                 6   PobIto -ob Sar-rs/CPS4                      --        -.         1.2        1.2
8   ToDal ttd. Debt,                                          2171                             100 0                 7   Tota Io3 DICDFi'                           16.2      16 1      26 4       17.0
9   TotalPobIc.04LT DoNt                                      11.461                            54.1
C. Term
C otProfits
1.  Ioeeto     Ira    OB/Tota 507               7.4        a B      17.9      10.65
1. Total Debt SarD I- 1976-80/Toto  BAD end of (975                       153 8                                      2. Tota  DeT S    7leW/Tota1 LXI               19 B       20. 6     19.1       8.8
1. Groat Dleborsooet-a/Iport  (t.s  8PS)       86.8      602        47.,9     48.!1
2.  Bet Tsoafer/l,porto  los.:BS)       SD.5       26 0      255        70.
3. Net Trosf./.  oasDO6tfnInat                 58.2       43,3      53.4      42 7
1. I1MD Diab./Cr-o 5T61 Ot-b                    3.6        4,2       3.5       3.6
2   IBO BAD/TotaliBAD                           5.1        5 1       5.1        52
3.  I.BA DBB~ Sarit/Totol Deb  Service          2.7        2.7       2.6        2 4
i!  CoInte mo   otst.ty    ttl   besae  of .o.odieg
2/I-rldiog net dEtc ..i---,ttttooe
3/  Dabt 6TeIroic   epar--D of export pica   --arod Inscoo     f 3 -oohe   eise.Oc.e                                                                                                            21. 1976
C IBBteB1973 prlr-
N.,to A-itlable



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of November 30,1976)
Loan                                                         Amount Less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower                      Purpose  Cancellations   bursed
(US$ million)
Twenty-Eight Loans Fully Disbursed                               743.9
403    1965    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito I                         Power         57.0        0.1
474 /1 1966    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito II                        Power         39.0        0.7
677    1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Marimbondo                         Power         80.0        4.2
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power         70.0        9.6
755    1971    Brazil                               Education      8.4         3.5
756    1971    Brazil                               Ports         45.0        30.0
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply  22.0        0.9
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control       12.0        4.2
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways      46.0         5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry      64.5         3.7
812    1972    Usiminas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                             Industry      63.0        9.3
813    1972    Brazil                               Roads         89.0         2.8
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry      64.5         5.5
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao                Power         60.0        9.4
853    1972    Brazil                               Land Settl.    6.7         5.7
854    1972    Brazil                               Roads         51.0         0.4
887    1973    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade       Power         20.0        16.5
923    1973    Furnas Centrais Eletricas -
Itumbiara                         Power        125.0       92.7
924    1973    Brazil                               Agro-Indus.   54.0        33.8
1008   1974    Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV       Power         81.0       81.0
/1   In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of November 30, 1976)
Loan                                                          Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                      Purpose  Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
1009    1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply   36.0        25.9
1067    1974    Brazil                               Education      23.5       23.3
1074    1975     Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways      175.0       170.2
1075    1975     Brazil                              Roads         110.0        93.6
1151    1975.    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional      Industry       95.0        95.0
1152    1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista      Industry       60.0        59.6
1153    1975     Brazil                              Agriculture    23.0        22.8
1171    1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista            Railways       75.0        75.0
1195    1976     Brazil                              Rural Develop. 12.0        12.0
1206    1976     Brazil                              Develop. Bank  85.0        85.0
1207    1976     Brazil                              Feeder Rds.    55.0        55.0
1249    1976     Brazil                              Agriculture    40.0        40.0
1256    1976     Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer     50.0        47.9
1257    1976     Companhia Paranense de
Energia Eletrica - COPEL          Power           52.0       52.0
1300 /2 1976     Eletrobras                          Power          50.0        50.0
1302 /2 1976     Brazil   -                          Nutrition       19.0       19.0
1309 /2 1976     Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply   40.0        40.0
1317 /2 1976     Brazil                              Agro. Indus.   83.0        83.0
Total                                            2,885.5 /1 1,368.5
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               324.1
Total now outstanding                            2,561.4
Amount Sold                        45.2
of which has been repaid          15.8             29.4
Total now held by Bank                           2,532.0
Total undisbursed                                           1,368.5
/1   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.    A US$82.0 million loan for a
power transmission project was approved on November 23, 1976.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX 11
Pace 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS ,AS OF NOVEI 300 30. 197_)
Fiscal Year                            Obliger                                      Type of Bonine-s                                         Amount In iUS million
Loans    Eq-ty      Total
1957            St emes do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                          Elnotrical lIqip-tenc                                    2 00              2 00
1958            Oliakraft, S.A. CWlnloso e Papsl                                Pulp and Paper                                           1 20      -        1.20
1958            D.L.R. Platirna do Brasil, S.A.                                AutomotIve Parts                                         0.45      .       0.45
1958            Willyn-Ov-rlsnd do B-asil, 0.A.
Indostris e C-mercio                                         Motor Vehictes                                            2.45              2 45
1959            Componhia Mtinirs do Cimento Portland, S.A.                     Cement                                                   1.20      -        1 20
1959            Champion Celnlose, S.A.                                         NIp                                                      4.00      -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972            Acos Vill-res, S.A.                                             Steal                                                    8.00     1 93      9 93
1966/1969       Pupal e Ceinlose Catarin.nse, S.A.                              Pulp sad Faper                                           4 06     3 13      7 19
1967/1972       Ultroforril, S.A. - Industria a Co=ercio
de Ferrili.a.tes                                             F-rtili-ern                                               8.22     3.03    11.25
1969            Pe-rrqulica Unsao, S.A.                                         Pert-chenic.sls                                          5.50     2.88     8.38
1970            Poli.lfioss, S.A   Indoetrir  a Cnmercin                       Petrochemic.lsl                                          5.50     2.88     8 38
1971            Oniteno, S.A. Induntris e   Co.er.oi                            Petrochemiouln                                           4 60     1.44     6 04
1971            Iodartria do Cellose Borro-gard, S.A.                           Pulp                                                     4.90      -       4 90
1972/1975       ConpashIia do Cineton Narinoal de MiEms                         Cement                                                  29.14     3 20    32.34
1973/1974       Coapanhis Sidororgina da Gs.asbars - COSIGUA                    Steel                                                   67.00     6 50    73 50
1973            Capital Market D-oelopt.nt Fund - FUHCAP                        Capital Maruot De-elopst.t                               5 00      -       5.00
1973            Empr-aa de D--snoolviie-to de Rorura.s
Misorais - CODRMIN, S.A.                                     Nickel Miatsi sad Refimiog                               26.00     4.40    30 40
1974            ISdostrtss Villaroa, S.A.                                       Elova-tra and Indoatrial Eqlpunost                       6.00      -        6.00
1974            Fabricn de Tecidos Tatospe, S.A.                                Testiles                                                31.00      -      31 00
1975            Capoava Carbonos Induatrtais Ltd.                               Carbko Black                                             6.18     1.08      7.26
1975            Oittns Nordeste, S.4.                                           Petrochainuls                                           10.00      -      10 00
1976            Sastiata Industria - Toxtil do Nordeate, S.A.                   Tontil.a                                                 6.45     1.00      7 45
1976            Toca.or S.A. - Textil Catarinosas do Nordosts                   Te-til.                                                  6.00      -       6.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                                                                244 85    31.47   276.32
Less Canrollattoas, Tomlasttnons, Repaymen.t  and Sales                                                                174.92     7.93   182.85
Tatal Cossitments Nt. Held by IPC                                                                                      69.93     23.54    93.47
Total Undiaborsod                                                                                                       22.10     1.33    23.43



ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of November 30, 1976)
There are now 35 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474    Estreito Hydroelectric Project:   US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
677       Mlarimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
728        Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is pro-
gressing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four
generating units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun
of about US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction
costs, is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The cost overrun is being
financed by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The
construction of the transmission system, delayed to allow required
modifications, is proceeding satisfactorily. The project is
expected to be completed by end-1976.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower.   The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:    US$22 million loan of June 21,1971;
Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo
not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are now in-
cluded in the state budget. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company, SABESP,
was concluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the reorganization
of the sector and of management problems which are now resolved, the
Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975 has been postponed to June 30,
1977. Progress of the project has improved with new management
of the company which took office in March 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project has improved with new management which took office in March
1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:    US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The latest cost estimate, is US$736 million, an
increase of about 72% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 90%
complete and is about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
The Closing Date, originally July 1, 1976, has been postponed to
December 31, 1976.
812        USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% over the appraisal estimate, due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
j.ustification 6f the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well
underway. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.
813        Third Highway Construction. Project:  US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4,. 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast. The Closing Date originally June 30,
1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1977.
828        COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$758
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
w.ill be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding the civil works contracts.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). Due to subproject preparation problems that
are now resolved, disbursements have been substantially behind
schedule. However, the loan is now fully committed to 43 sub-
projects selected by the company, out of which 20 are already under
construction. The project will probably be completed by June 1978
and a postponement of the Closing Date will be required.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date:. April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and are expected to yield useful information for
future sector investment planning.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on severaL items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. The financial situation
of the Borrower deteriorated seriously in 1975 and 1976 because of
increased costs of materials and higher social charges which were
not matched by adequate tariff increases. Procurement is progres-
sing reasonably well, although slower than expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:   US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactoriLy. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:    US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. As a result of these difficulties CSN has contracted
special consultancy services to review the project scope with a view
to trimming capital costs and to helping improve project management.
The project is about nine months behind the original schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:     US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Procurement for equipment is
underway.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders,Project:    US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date:    November 25,-1975.;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects of the upstream
hydroelectric developments on the project area population.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):    US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well. The financial situation of FEPASA
deteriorated in 1975 due to lower than forecast traffic, cost
inflation and salary increases, while tariffs were not increased
correspondingly.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:     US$12.0 million loan
of March. , 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1206      Development Banking Project:    US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:    US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. The project is proceeding according to
schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:    US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is proceeding according to
schedule. Civil engineering for 21 experiment stations is well
advanced.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:    US$52 million loan of March 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:    US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1976. The project is proceeding according to schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS (ZONA DA MATA) RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor:           The Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$42 million equivalent
Terms:               Payable in 17 years including 5 years of grace at
8.7% interest per annum.
Project              About 60% of the project funds would be utilized to
Lending Terms:       finance, credit to be made to small farmers through
four intermediary banks, including the Banco do Brasil.
In cases where loans are refinanced by the Central Bank,
the intermediary banks will retain a remuneration of 6%
per annum on credit outstanding under the project. Credit
terms to farmers would be the same as those prevailing for
small farmer credit in central Brazil: 13-15% nominal
interest rate without monetary correction and repayment
according to production cycle for seasonal production
credit, with 0% interest rate without monetary correction
on certain modern inputs such as pesticides; 7% nominal
interest rate and up to 12 years maturity (including
appropriate periods of grace) for investment credits, with
partial monetary correction on longer term loans. For
reforestation and rural electrification the interest rate
would range between 10-15% without monetary correction and
with maturities of up to 10 years (including appropriate
periods of grace).
Project
Description:         The project includes:
(i) The provision of agricultural credit for on-farm
investments, seasonal working capital requirements,
reforestation, land reclamation and installation
of electrical feeder lines and house connections
to small farms;
(ii) the expansion and improvement of rural extension
services;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii)  the development of marketing facilities, including
group-cooperative support;
(iv)  the field testing and demonstration of improved
agricultural production techniques;
(v)  the construction and equipping of health posts and
health centers and the provision of primary health
care, basic nutrition education, kitchen gardens,
food supplements to pregnant and lactating women
and children under five years of age, and fresh
water filters and pit latrines;
(vi)  the construction, furnishing and equipping of
community learning centers and a common facilities
center; furnishing and equipping of two teacher
training centers; the provision of equipment for
training farmers in cooperative activities; the
training of school teachers, on-farm instructors
and administrators; and the establishing of short
courses in agricultural technology, farm management
and related subjects; and
(vii)  the provision of technical assistance to the State
Government for project administration, monitoring
and evaluation.
Estimated Cost:                                             (US$ Million)
Local       Foreign      Total
Agricultural Credit                            56.6          9.8        66.4
Land Reclamation                                5.5          1.4         6.9
Productive Support
Agriculture Research and Demonstration         1.0          .2         1.2
Agricultural Extension                        8.7          1.6        10.3
Cooperative Development                       1.5           .3         1.8
Plant Nurseries and Forestry Development       1.4          .2         1.6
Social Infrastructure
Education                                     4.9           .6         5.5
Health                                        7.0          1.0         8.0
Project Administration and
Evaluation                                    2.3           .4         2.7
Sub-Total                       88.9        15.5        104.4
Contingencies                   29.5         5.1         34.6
Total                          118.4        20.6        139.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Million
Bank                                     42.0
State and Federal Government             97.0
of which through banks                (71.1)
Total           139.0
Estimated                                      US$ Million by Calendar Year
Disbursements:                             1977    1978     1979    1980     1981
Annually              10.3      7.4     9.3    12.0      3.0
Cumulative            10.3     17.7    27.0    39.0     42.0
Procurement:         Farm inputs financed under the credit component would be
procured through normal local commercial channels. Food
supplements, instructional materials and office supplies
would be purchased according to satisfactory local procure-
ment procedures. Civil works would be executed by a
combination of community self-help, force account and local
bidding. Equipment and small vehicles would be procured
through local competitive bidding, but not excluding
foreign suppliers.
Rate of Return:      The estimated financial rate of return to participating
farm families (except sharecroppers) would range from 16%
to 29%; the economic rate of return on the agricultural
component of the project is estimated at about 22%.
Completion           Project completion is expected by June 30, 1981.
Date:
Staff Project        Report No. 1291-BR dated December 28, 1976.
Report:



ANNEX IV
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS (ZONA DA MATA) RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: approximately 11
months (from November 1974 to October 1975)
(b)  Project prepared by:   Fundacao Rural Minera (RURALMINAS), the
State Rural Development Agency
(c) First presentation to the Bank: October 1974
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 5, 1975
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:   November 26, 1976
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: March 31, 1977
Section II   Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III   Special Conditions
(e) As conditions of loan effectiveness, the State Government would
(1) enter into an agreement with the Banco do Brasil, whereby
it undertook to participate in the project under terms and
conditions agreed with the Bank.






e                                    z  xr  /A)_~~~~  L  A  q  |  A  1>Olo-;/ ; rXr  ~~~~~~~~sr r ffi 2SJ ToGowa: udo / roGow Xodows <Q ~,BR   1244
CNly't>r(F/f  1?-X<               --'         sJ'          ,'Z
SAS ,<                                 V           tr~~~OUT
-i-     <\ ~~~-\ vfXAMERIC
>  /   ~~~M  I N A SGE R AI =S 
C-\                       
\ / \ h D ~~~~Vics,Ftd@t-.EoeiX
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BA I__di  L 
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zn do Mat Rua Development(Project



