CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1362 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Minas Gerais Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated February 23, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Federal Senate of the Guarantor has, by Resolution
No 109 dated December 4, 1976, authorized the Borrower to enter
into this Loan Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of Article 42,
IV of the Guarantor's constitution;
(C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the termE and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the te-m "participating banks" means the banks referred to
in Section 3.03 (b) hereof.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured as
follows:
(a) civil works shall be procured through self-help, force
account or competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's
normal procurement procedures, or a combination thereof;
(b) farm inputs shall be procured through local commercial
channels; and


﻿4-
(c) equipment (other than that used as farm input) shall be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with
the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy-hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
n'rincipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule st forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or
cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and ef-
ficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of coordinating the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a
Project Unit in the Fundagao Rural Mineira, which shall be staffed
with a Project Manager, not less than six full-time experienced
and qualified professionals and supporting staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the credit program
included in Part A of the Project (the credit program) to be carried
out with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the
Lending Policies and Procedures set forth in Schedule 4 hereto,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower. The Borrower shall promptly
upon its determination inform the Bank of the interest rates to
be charged on loans included in the credit program and of any
modification thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into and maintain contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with Banco do Brasil, S.A.,


﻿-6-
Caixa Economica do Estado de Ninas Gerais, Banco do Estado de
Minas Gerais, S.A. and BsIco de Credito Real de Minas Gerais, S.A.
providing for their ?.rticipation in the carrying out of the
credit program.
(c) The Borrower shall cause its competent agenzies to
provide adequate technical assistance and extension services
to the farmers participating in the credit program and to
supervise the utilization of the facilities financed there-
under.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) make annual reviews of the
credit component of the Project and, more particularly, of the
progress made in expanding lending to sharecroppers and farmers
having less than 50 ha in the Project Area; (ii) furnish to the
Bank before November 30 of each year, a report on the review for
the preceding year; and (iii) exchange views therein with the
Bank and carry out the actions that may be agreed following such
exchange of views.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to strengthen the participation in the Project of Associaco de
Cr9dito e Assistencia Rural or any successor thereto by, inter
alia, causing it to increase the number of its technical and
professional staff working in the Project as of January 1, 1976,
by 150 before June 1, 1977 and by 50 additonal ones before June 1,
1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall select the varzeas to be
included in Part C of the Project in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 1, 1977
or such other date as the Bank shall agree, employ such qualified
and experienced experts as shall be required to carry out Part D
of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall enter into and maintain con-
tractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with Instituto
Nacional de Alimentaao e Nutrigao (INAN) and with Fundo do
Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural (FUNRURAL) providing for INAN's
and FUNRURAL assistance to the Borrower in carrying out Part E
of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that its Superintendencia de Cooperativismo shall at all
times assign an adequate number of qualified professionals to the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall select the sites for the
new educational facilities included in Part F of the Project in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Superintendencia
de Cooperativismo to formulate, by June 1, 1977, a farmer cooperative
training program satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of Oar-
rying out Part F.3 of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Associagao de Credito e
Assistencia Rural or any successor thereto to formulate, by June 1,
1977, a training program satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes
of carrying out Part FA of the Project.


﻿-8-
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Part F.5 of the Project,
t,he Borrower shall formulate and present to the Bank for its con-
currence, by June 1, 1977: (i) criteria to define the training
needs of farmers and young adults; (ii) a training program for
farmers and young adults who meet such needs; and (iii) criteria
to evaluate the success of such training program.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by
June 1, 1977, detailed plans for the selection of specialists who
will provide the technical assistance included in Part F of the
Project, and of the staff of the Borrower who will be assigned as
counterparts to such specialists.
(b) The Borrower shall, starting June 1, 1977 and every six
months thereafter, furnish to the Bank reports on the progress made
in carrying out the monitoring and evaluation program included in
Part G of the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to make adequate
provision for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to their
acquisition, transportation and delivery to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of tie Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.


﻿-9-
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
reflect the progress and cost of the Project and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods fi-
nanced cut of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all sch in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Co-enants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the Project Unit and the agencies participating
in the carrying out of the Project to maintain separate accounts
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations in respect of the Project;
(b) cause such accounts to be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(c) make available to the Bank, not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of such finan-
cial statements, as so audited, and a copy of the report of such
audit; and
(d) furnish to the Bank, such other pertinent information
concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request from
time to time.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, a political subdivision of the
Guarantor, acknowledges that the obligations undertaken by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement
cover any lien on any of the assets of the Borrower, of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, and on any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit


﻿- 11 -
of, the Borrower, guaranteeing an external debt, as provided in
such Section; and, without limitation on the preceding, hereby
undertakes with regard to such assets, mutatis mutandis, the
obligations undertaken by the Guarantor pursuant to such Section.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has entered into contractual arrangements
with Banco do Brasil for the purpose specified in Section 3.03 (b)
hereof;
(b) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Banco
Central do Brasil; and
(c) all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed
or given by the Guarantor, the Borrower, their political subdivisions
or agencies, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to
enable the Borrower to perform all of its obligations pursuant to
this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Bank namely:


﻿- 13 -
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(b) that all acts, consents and approvals referred to in
Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and
validly performed or given and that no other-such acts, consents
or approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out
of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of its
obligations pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date June 24, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Planejamento
e Coordinagleo Geral
Rua da Bahia 1600
30000 Belo Horizonte, MG
Brazil
Cable address:
SEPLAN MG
Belo Horizonte


﻿15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Joao Camillo Penna
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of -he
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Loans to farmers:                            30% of disburse-
ments made
(a) sharecroppers and      9,000,000
farmers having
less than 50 ha.
(b) other                 18,200,000
(2) Equipment and                 670,000        30%
civil works for
land reclamation
(Part C of the
Project)
(3) Technical Services:         4,700,000        30%
Project Administra-
tion, vehicles,
0'.e-ipment and field
trials
(4) Health services:            2,400,000        30%
civil works, equip-
ment, salaries,
medical and food
supplies


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Categcy                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Education services:         1,600,000         30%
civil works, office
equipment, training,
salaries and consult-
ing services
(6) Monitoring and                760,000         30%
evaluation: salaries
and consulting ser-
vices
(7) Unallocated                 4,670,000
Total      42,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   No withdrawal shall be made under Category (1) in any calendar
year unless the Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that the aggregate of disbursements made by the parti-
cipating banks under loans to farmers having less than 100 ha,
for the same purposes as those included in the Project, and not
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, during that same
calendar year, exceed the equivalent of $18,000,000.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not ex-
ceeding the equivalent of $3,800,000, may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1976; and


﻿- 19 -
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) unless
the Borrower has entered into the contractual arrangements referred
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to aother Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to accelerate development in
the Zona da Mata, an area covering about 3.5 million hectares
located in the Southeast of the State of Minas Gerais.
It consists of:
Part A:   Credit
A program of credit to farmers, in an aggregate amount
of not less than the equivalent of $36 million per annum,
to cover (a) their capital needs and on-farm investments in
crops, livestock, and forestry; (b) the erection of a
secondary power distribution line and related on-farm
investment; and (c) land levelling. Farmers having less
than 100 ha and sharecroppers without adequate collateral
will also receive credit under this program.
Part B:   Rural Electrification
Erection of a primary distribution line of about
440 km to provide electricity for house, farm, and
agro-industrial use in areas which lack electricity and
in which farms under 100 ha predominate, to about 2,000
beneficiaries.


﻿- 21 -
Part C:   Land Reclamation
Reclamation of about 8,000 ha of individually
owned, poorly drained valley bottom land (varzeas) by
means of drainage and flood control facilities.
Part D:   Technical Services
1.   A program of applied agricultural research and
demonstration.
2.   Provision of extension services to small farmers.
3.   Provision of technical assistance on agricultural
cooperative management, on rural development project manage-
ment, and on project administration.
Part E:   Health Services
1.   Construction and equipment of about 275 health posts
and about 35 health centers, and upgrading of about 60 health
centers.
2.   Health programs:
(i) a vaccination program, including an
epidemiological surveillance program;


﻿- 22 -
(ii) a sanitation program, including the
installation of water filters and pit
latrines, and the investigation of
schistosomiasis foci;
(iii) a nutrition program; and
(iv) a training program.
Part F:   Education Services
1.   Construction, equipment and furnishing of about
28 Commmuity Learning Centers with about 6,400 places for
rural primary classes and nonformal vocational training
courses.
2.   Construction, equipment and furnishing of a multi-
purpose learning center at Muriae, with a capacity of about
350 students so as to accommodate about 2,200 students in
multiple shifts.
3.   A farmer cooperative training program.
4.   A program to provide pre-service and in-service
training for about 200 agricultural extension personnel.
5.   A program of functional training for about 21,000
farmers and occupational training for about 15,000 rural
young adults.


﻿- 23 -
6.   Provision of technical assistance on educational
methods and education project management.
Part G:   Monitoring and Evaluation
A program to monitor the progress of the preceding
parts of the Project and to evaluate the economic, social
and educational benefits derived from it.
* e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1982
through February 1, 1994                       1,750,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of matur-.y of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
Caneral Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.55%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.05%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                   7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Development Plans. Loans to farmers, under Part A of the
Project, will be made only in accordance with, and for the pur-
pose of carrying out, the development plan prepared for each
farmer by the Associagao de Cr4dito e Assistencia Rural or any
succession thereto.
It is expected that short-term credit will be granted to
finance crop, livestock, and forestry production costs, including
consumption credit for smaller farmers and sharecroppers, and that
longer-term credit will be granted to finance the establishment of
sugarcane and fruit trees, pasture establishment and improvement,
reforestation, purchase of breeding stock, fencing, farm equipment,
livestock handling equipment, rural electrification, and land re-
clamation.
2.   Eligible Farmers. Loans will be granted to sharecroppers
operating less than 20 ha and to farmers owning less than 100 ha,
except that (i) up to 500 farmers owning far-s having more than
100 ha but not more than 200 ha may be granted loans for reforesta-
tion, and (ii) not more than half the number of loans for land
reclamation may be granted to farmers owning farms having more
than 100 ha but not more than 200 ha. Not less than one-third of
the amount lent under the credit program will be lent to farmers
having less than 50 ha and to sharecroppers.


﻿- 27 -
3.   Loan Amounts. Loans will finance up to 100% of the investment
and operating costs of the eligible on-farm activities, as recom-
mended in the applicable development plan, taking into account the
repayment capacity of the farmer, except that no loan or aggregate
of loans to the same farmer outstanding at any time will exceed
the equivalent of 180 times the valor de referencia in the case
of loans for land reclamation, and 150 times the valor de
referencia in the case of loans for any other purposes, except
loans for reforestation to which none of these limits will apply.
For purposes of this paragraph "valor de referencia" means the
monetary correction factor periodically established by the Bor-
rower pursuant to Law No. 6205, dated April 29, 1975, of the
Borrower, to replace the monetary correction factor based on the
minimum monthly salary.
4.   Repayment Terms. Loans for investments will be repaid over
5 to 12 years, including an appropriate grace period, as recom-
mended in the applicable development plan; provided. how1ever,
that if the competent authorities of the Guarantor shall establish
other guidelines of general applicability for similar loans, such
other guidelines shall be applied.
5.   Loans for Rural Electrification will be repayable in up to
6 years and will bear interest at an annual rate of not less than
10% per year; said rate to be set higher, in proportion to the
amount of principal; provided, however, that if the competent
authorities of the Guarantor shall establish other guidelines
of general applicability for similar loans, such other guidelines
shall be applied.
6.   Forestry activities will be subsidized by the Borrower.


