Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20216
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
(LOAN 3273-ZW)
March 20,2000
Transport 1
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ol
their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1999)
Currency unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Z$ 1.0   =  Zimbabwe Dollar
US$1.0 = Z$37.5
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 -June 30 until 1998
and from January 1 to December 31 since 1999
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               Africa Development Bank
CTC         =      Centralized Traffic Control
DANIDA    =        Danish International Development Agency
FINNIDA    =       Finnish International Development Agency
GOZ         =      Government of Zimbabwe
KfW                Kredtalstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MIS                Management Information System
MOT         =      Ministry of Transport
MSDP               Management and Supervisory Development Program
NRZ         =      National Railways of Zimbabwe
NTKM               Net Tonne Kilometer
OIP                Operation Information Plan
SADC        =      Southern Africa Development Committee
USAID       =      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President           :       Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director         :       Ms. Barbara Kafka
Technical Manager        :       Mr. Yusupha B. Crookes
Task Team Leader                 Mr. Yash P. Kedia



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT (LOAN 3273-ZIM)
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. ProjectData ................................................................1
2. Principal Performance Ratings ................................................................                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry .........                             ........  1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs .................................................................5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ..................................................   11
6. Sustainability ...............................................................                                        12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................                        13
8. Lessons Learned .............                                                                                         14
9. Partner Comments .................................................................                                     15
10. Additional Information ................................................................                               25
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix ................................ ...................   28
Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing ................................................................                     29
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Financing ................................................................                    32
Annex 4: Bank Inputs ................................................................                                     35
Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Output of Components ...........                              ...............    36
Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................    37
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents .................................                   ...............................    38
MAP SECTION: IBRD Nos. 221 11R and 22112R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003286                                       Project Name: RAILWAYS II
Team Leader: Yash Pal Kedia                               TL Unit: AFTTI
ICR 7Tpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 20, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: RAILWAYS II                                       LIC Number: 32730
Country/Department: ZIMBABWE                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TW - Railways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 04/30/88                                 Effective: 07/15/91
Appraisal:  10/24/89                                  MTR:
Approval:  12/04/90                                Closing: 06/30/97            06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT./NRZ
Other Partners: AiDB, Austrian Government, DANIDA, FINNIDA, KfW, USAID, Swiss
Government
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Barbara Kafka                              Stephen M. Denning
Sector Manager:      Yusupha B. Crookes                         Isaac K. Sam
Team Leader at ICR:   Yash Pal Kedia                            Yusupha B. Crookes
ICR Primary Author:   Gualberto Lima Campos
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The basic objective of the project was to support the organizational, financial and asset restructuring of
National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) necessary to enable it to increase the utilization of its existing
capacity, cater effectively to the prospective demand for rail transport, and become financially
self-sustaining. The project was to help reduce the economic cost of rail transport and stem the costly



diversion of traffic from rail to road. It was also to help relax the current transport constraint on
production in sectors where road transport of inputs and outputs was not feasible, improve the level of cost
recovery in NRZ and reduce its claims on Government resources, and improve the prospects for the
utilization of the Mozambican transport corridor to the benefit of both Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
The project objectives were consistent with Government's broad macro-economic objectives and were
supportive of the significant changes in the regulation of NRZ that the Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ)
was implementing at the time of appraisal.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the loan was amended in 1997, the project objectives were not revised during implementation.
The loan was amended to assist GOZ and NRZ in achieving the original project objective. The
amendments involved reallocation of funds to finance: (i) the early voluntary retirement of staff identified
as surplus to the needs of the railway, (ii) the services of advisors to assist NRZ in formulating and
implementing actions to deepen the restructuring of NRZ; and (iii) the rehabilitation of locomotives and
purchase of additional equipment to overcome operational constraints.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was estimated to cost a total of US$263.4 million and planned for co-finaning by the Austrian
Government: US$1.80 million (0.7%); DANIDA: US$3.7 million (1.4%); FINNIDA: US$4.7 million
(2%); KfW: US$7.6 million (3%); USAID: US$39.4 million (15%); and Swiss Government: US$2.8
million (1.1%). The Bank's contribution, US$38.6 million, represented 15% of the initial project cost. The
contribution of GOZINRZ, estimated at US$165.8 million, represented 63% of the initial project cost.
Originally, the project comprised the following components:
(i)   Organizational Restructuring (OR) technical assistance and consultancy services for
management and supervisory staff support and skills development, management training,
and studies for managerial improvement.
(ii)  Physical Investments: support for streamlining of the locomotive fleet and rolling stock,
rationalization of the electrical track structure, and replacement of other life-expired or
obsolete assets.
(iii)  Operational Restructuring (OpR): procurement of operating information system software
and computer hardware.
(iv)  Financial Management (FM): modernization of financial and management accounting and
budgetary control systems.
-2-



Component costs were originally estimated as follows:
Proiect Cost Initial Estimates
(US$ million)
Component               Total Cost   Bank Loan
OR, OpR and FM
Studies                                 2.37         1.50
Technical Assistance                   25.87        14.80
Training                                3.90         1.90
Physical Investments
Locomotives                            73.36         2.80
Rolling Stock (wagons and coaches)    112.59         0.00
Signals and Telecom                    14.44         1.20
Breakdwon Crane                         3.30         0.00
Plant and Equipment                     7.36         2.80
Service Vehicles                        6.00         6.00
Electrification                        11.63         5.50
Information Systems                     2.60         2.10
Total                    263.42         38.60
3.4 Revised Components:
Due to a substantial and unanticipated decline in traffic after the launch of the project, the components pertaining to
the acquisition of locomotives, rolling stock, technical assistance, and some other miscellaneous items, totaling about
US$140.0 million, were partially or completely dropped by NRZ/GOZ.
In February 1997, the Bank Loan Agreement was amended at the request of GOZ, particularly to allow reallocation
of the balance of about US$16.0 million representing savings out of the original loan amount. Staff Redundancy was
identified as a new component to help finance early voluntary retirement of surplus staff with a view to reducing
staff-related costs.
The reallocation of funds to finance staff redundancy was in accordance with the original project design
and intention. The comprehensive manpower study, an element of the organizational restructuring
component, was meant to establish efficiency-based manning levels within NRZ, identify staff
redundancies, and suggest ways to retire/retrench surplus staff. About 40% of the NRZ staff was
identified as surplus and NRZ chose to deal with the redundancy problem by encouraging selected staff to
proceed on early voluntary retirement. A major part of the program was financed by USAID.
The allocation of funds for the re-engining of locomotives of DE6 series was meant to phase out the
remaining few steam locomotives (used as shunting locomotives) a little in advance of the expiry of their
useful life. The economics of this allocation was amply discussed in the MOP to the Board.
-3 -



The allocation for signaling and telecommunications was increased as the failures of these systems were
increasingly contributing to the inadequacy of operational performance.
Proiect Cost Revised Estimates
(US$ million)
Component              Total Cost   Bank Loan
OR, OpR and FM
Studies                                2.00         1.20
Technical Assistance                   6.00         7.30
Training                               4.70         0.60
Staff Redundancy                         5.00         5.00
Physical Investments
Locomotives                           40.00        10.30
Rolling Stock (wagons and coaches)    35.40         0.00
Signals and Telecom                    7.80         5.60
Breakdwon Crane                        1.90         0.00
Plant and Equipment                    4.20         3.30
Service Vehicles                       6.70         2.10
Electrification                        4.90         2.00
Information Systems                    1.60         1.20
Total                    120.20        38.60
As shown in Annex 2, the final project cost was US$125.9 million which represented respectively 48% and
105% of the initial and the revised estimates. Bank-loan disbursements reached 97% of the total loan
amount.
In terms of major categories for the Bank loan, the estimates as amended in 1997 and the actuals are given
below:
Project Costs bv Cateqories
(USS million)
Cateaorv               Revised           Actual
Works                         4.00             7.60
Goods                        19.00            15.60
Consultant Services          10.00             9.20
Staff Redundancy              5.00             5.00
Unallocated                   0.60
Total                  38.60            37.40
-4 -



The life of the project was initially set at seven (7) years. The credit closing date was extended twice by
one year each mainly to allow the Borrower to develop a strategy for the privatization of the railways with
assistance from advisors/consultants. Additionally, the extension was also meant to allow the borrower to
carry out remaining activities ais well as new activities introduced through the project amendment, viz.,
staff redundancy, and re-engining of locomotives of DE6 series.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Realizing the complexity of the project objectives, the project design focused comprehensively on all the
key aspects of the railway entity, viz., the organization structure, systems and procedures, and human and
physical resources. In terms of the organizational structure. the project supported greater autonomy for
NRZ in decision making, particularly with regard to tariff setting, separation of the road division from the
railways, rationalization of internal authority and communication structures, and rationalization of staffing
levels. In terms of systems and procedures, the project supported upgrading and refinement of key
operating and management systems, particularly those pertaining to costing, advance train information,
yard management, train scheduling, and measuring operational performance. An elaborate Operations
Improvement Plan (OIP) was put in place along with targets of performance. A very clear focus of the
project was on improving the capability and productivity of human resources through staff rationalization,
innovative training methods, and exposure of the management to advanced railway systems. Finally, the
project focused on improving the physical assets and ensuring that limitations of locomotives, rolling stock,
infrastructure, maintenance facilities, and other assets would not become a constraint to the railways'
improvement. The project was designed after detailed consultations with all stakeholders and in
cooperation and coordination with all the interested donor agencies.
The quality at entry was considerably enhanced by GOZ's strong commitment to the project. This
commitment in turn developed as a consequence of two very disturbing events at the project preparation
stage in 1989/1990. First NRZ's deficit for the year 1989-90 constituted about one third of the
government's fiscal deficit and, therefore, reducing NRZ's deficit became GOZ's top most priority. Second
the progressively deteriorating performance of NRZ finally culminated in a near collapse of the railways in
1989. In addition to NRZ's own wagons, the system had accumulated close to 10,000 wagons of South
African Railways. Not only did this amount to horrendously high wagon hire charges, it led to an almost
complete choking of the marshaling and terminal yards and considerable slowing down of train movements.
The consequent massive disruption in the working of the power plants and the industry in general led GOZ
to establish a Cabinet level commission to inquire into NRZ's performance. At that stage, even prior to the
project being presented to the Board, the Bank played a crucial role in dissipating the crisis by organizing
timely assistance of operational experts. This led to further confidence building and strengthening of
GOZ's commitment to accepting a complex but comprehensive project design.
The quality of the project at entry is assessed as highly satisfactorv.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Second Railways Project was adequately carried out and the project objectives were achieved. Project
achievements are reflected in: (i) reduction of NRZ deficit from about US$100.0 million (60% of NRZ
revenue) in 1989/90 to about US$15.0 million (12% of NRZ revenue) in 1997/1998; (ii) strengthening of
NRZ's institutional capability to manage NRZ without dependence on technical assistance; and (iii)
elimination of almost all capacity constraints. As a result, NRZ has become more efficient and more
competitive.
- 5-



The improvement in the operational and financial performance of the railways, though quite impressive
when compared to that at the start of the project, is still not enough to make the railways financially
self-sustaining. Even so, the achievement of objectives is considered satisfactory for two reasons: (a) the
improvement was achieved in the face of serious worsening of the business environment and circumstances
beyond the control of NRZ; and (b) the decision of GOZ/NRZ to seek private participation in the
operation and management of railways, a decision which was facilitated by the interactions between the
Bank and GOZ under the project, is expected to lead to long-term financial sustainability of the railways.
Financialperformance. At the commencement of the project discussions in 1990, NRZ's overall yearly
deficit was about US$100.0 million. This amount was equivalent to about 60% of its gross revenue and
3% of Zimbabwe's GDP. At that time, NRZ's top and middle management was young and inexperienced,
although well qualified compared to the historical leadership of the railways, and the trucking sector was
beginning to emerge as a strong alternative mode of transport in direct competition with the railways.
NRZ's traffic was further adversely affected by a number of developments beyond NRZ's control such as
the commissioning of an oil products pipe line between Mutare and Harare, the discovery of iron ore
deposits that were closer to the steel plant than the original iron ore mines served by the railways, the
production problems at the steel plant, the slow growth of the economy, the closure of the local
ferro-chrome industry for a considerable period of time as a result of increased competition from low cost
suppliers from the former USSR countries, and the worsening of the economies of Zaire (now DRC) and
Zambia. As a result, NRZ's freight traffic, which was projected to increase from a little less than 14
million tons during the financial year 1990 (ending June 30, 1990) to 16 million tons by financial year
1994, actually declined to 10.5 million tons during the financial year 1994. The traffic has since slightly
recovered and is about 12 million tons per year.
Despite these constraints, NRZ has been able to improve its financial and operational performance since
the commencement of the project. The yearly deficit has since declined substantially to between US$10.0
and US$20.0 million. For the year 1999, the net financial out-turn is expected to be a surplus of about
US$5.0 million. This performance was achieved through a combination of tariff increases and significant
improvements in operating efficiency and operating costs, including a reduction in staff from 17,000 in
1990 to about 10,000 at the end of 1998, even though staff reduction was not envisaged in the initial
project design. Responding sharply to the declining traffic, the NRZ management also decided to
cancel/defer many of the investment proposals included in the project such as acquisition of new
locomotives, wagons, and workshop equipment, the actual investment amounting to only about 45% of the
investment originally envisaged.
The actions taken to curtail investments and reduce staff in response to the declining traffic reflect a
substantial improvement in NRZ's institutional capability. NRZ's institutional capability improved mainly
as a result of: (i) GOZ and NRZ signing yearly performance agreements which, while granting more
autonomy to NRZ, also required it to be more accountable, (ii) NRZ's top and middle management gaining
valuable experience through their secondment to foreign railways and through working closely with foreign
technical experts; (iii) NRZ's Board of Directors being strengthened and given more powers, and (iv) NRZ
getting more advanced computers and software for analytical work. The improvernent in the institutional
capability was faster than expected, as a result of which the technical assistance contracts were revised and
technical assistance substantially curtailed. Currently, there are no expatriate staff working at any level in
NRZ, compared to about 300 that were working throughout the organization at the beginning of the
project.
The improvement in performance achieved by NRZ was also facilitated by a number of other key factors:
- 6-



(i) the continuing commitment to achieving the project's widely publicized performance goals shown by the
Government, NRZ's management, and NRZ's Board of Directors; (ii) the alertness shown by the media in
highlighting NRZ's performance throughout the period of project implementation; (iii) the transparent
process followed by the management of NRZ in selecting staff for the middle and top management
positions; and (iv) the efforts made by NRZ's top management at keeping the middle management and the
Government informed of its strategies by arranging periodic consultative-seminars.
Operationalperformance. In 1990, the first year of the project, NRZ carried about 14 million tons of the
freight traffic. However, in doing so, it hired close to ten (10) locomotives from the then South African
Railways and also held about 8000 foreign wagons, mostly belonging to the South African Railways, on its
system and used quite a high percentage of that for moving its domestic traffic. NRZ had to pay very
heavy hire charges for these locomotives and wagons, close to US$50.0 million or about 50% of the
overall deficit for that year. The main thrust of the project, therefore, was on improving the availability
and utilization of NRZ's existing locomotive and wagon fleet and augmenting its locomotive capacity in
order to enable NRZ to handle the projected traffic of 16 million tons without hiring any locomotives and
wagons from South Africa. To achieve this objective, an Operations Improvement Plan (OIP) was evolved
and targets of locomotive and wagon availability and utilization and other key performance indicators
established. Additionally, the project provided for procurement of 14 high horse power locomotives with a
view to replacing many of NRZ's low-performing and problematic locomotives, which were purchased
prior to independence without adequate technical analysis.
The implementation of OIP resulted in considerable improvement in the availability and utilization of
locomotives and wagons during the first four years (see Annex 1) but not quite to the Staff Appraisal
Report targets. Also, in the meantime, the freight traffic on offer declined sharply and was only about 10.5
million tons by the year 1994. These two factors resulted in considerably less demand for locomotives and
wagons. Consequently, the hiring of locomotives was discontinued and the number of foreign wagons on
the NRZ system was also brought down to less than 2000. This contributed substantially to the reduction
in the financial deficit of NRZ after 1990. The arrival of 14 new locomotives in 1994 resulted in
over-capacity vis-a-vis the traffic on offer, though not in relation to the traffic projected at the time of the
project formulation. Even though the traffic on offer increased slightly after 1994, it continued to remain
much below the levels for which the locomotive and wagon capacity was created. As a result, the issue of
locomotive and wagon availability and utilization became less critical for a while.
Since 1997, there have been indications that NRZ has not able to carry all the traffic on offer due to
operational constraints caused by the declining locomotive availability and reliability. NRZ attributes the
decline in the key performance indicators, i.e., locomotive availability and reliability and wagon utilization,
to the cash crunch caused by the non-fulfillment by the Government of its obligation under the Railways
Act to make good NRZ's yearly deficit, the cash crunch directly affecting NRZ's ability to make adequate
budgetary provision for the procurement of spare parts for locomotives and wagons. The yearly deficit,
according to NRZ, is the direct result of it having to continue with a large work force (even after the
reduction that has taken place since 1990) with the Government as the only shareholder failing to mobilize
resources for implementing its retrenchment plan. NRZ's explanation is only partially correct. According
to its own information, a lot more could have done in improving the locomotive availability and reliability
within the given resources.
Since 1996, realizing the limitations of the management of the railways as a parastatal in a highly
competitive environment, a consensus has been building around involving private sector in the operation
and management of the railways. The project supported the consensus-building exercise through internal
seminars, visits of railway and government officials to countries where the railways have been concessioned
- 7 -



or privatized, and consultancy studies to develop and evaluate the options for privatization of the railways.
The Government is close to taking a decision in this regard. As a first step, GOZ signed a limited BOT
type of concession for building and operating a new Beitbridge-Bulawayo link which indeed appears to
have led to a substantial increase in the freight traffic moving by rail. Effective privatization of the railways
should lead to the complete realization of the project objectives, viz., making the railways cater to the
prospective demand for rail transport and operate as a financially self-sustaining entity without any
financial support from the Government.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.    The outputs by components, financed under the Bank Loan are discussed below:
(i)    Organizational Restructuring The main objective of the component was to improve the
decision-making process within NRZ by establishing an appropriate organizational structure, improving
communication channels within the organization, enhancing analytical capability of the institution, and
enhancing decision-making capability and confidence of the individual managers and staff at all levels. The
component objectives were achieved through a combination of studies to improve systems and procedures,
technical assistance, and extensive staff training. The studies under this component included: (a) a
Manpower Study, (b) a Management Information Study (conducted in house); and (c) a Cost Accounting
System Study. Based on the recommendations of the Manpower Study and the imperatives of declining
traffic, NRZ management has been engaged in a continuous effort to reduce staff and reorganize the
remaining staff in more productive configurations. In terms of Technical Assistance, a Management and
Supervisory Development Program (MSDP) was initiated under which a team from an experienced railway
(Canada) was invited to work along with NRZ line staff for a limited period of time. MSDP did benefit the
staff but the contract was curtailed mid-way subsequent to NRZ staff having gained confidence and
expertise earlier than expected. Against an original allocation of US$18.4 million for technical assistance,
only about US$7.5 million was eventually spent. Under training, many of the managerial staff of NRZ
were accredited to other efficient railways in the developed world to improve their managerial and
decision-making skills. Many other staff benefited also of specialized training programs. The total cost of
training amounted to about US$0.52 million.
(ii)   Physical Investments: The details of investments financed under the Bank loan and their impact
is discussed below:
(a)    Extension of electrification. The electrification of the Harare-Msasa is being carried out at
a cost of about US$2.0 million to facilitate the movement of oil from Msasa (the terminal
station for the oil pipe line from Mutare) to Bulawayo with the use of electric locomotives
right from Msasa to Dabuka without the need to first start the train from Msasa by diesel
locomotives and then change over to electric locomotives at Harare. This would facilitate
increased utilization of the electric locomotives and reduction of yard detentions for oil
traffic.
(b)    Locomotive availability. Procurement of locomotive spare parts at a total actual cost of
US$3.2 million helped increase the availability of locomotives, first during the drought
period in 1992 and then subsequently during the initial period of the project when NRZ
was facing acute problems of locomotive availability.
(c)   Improvements in signaling and telecommunications. Data Transmission Link (US$1.6
million) and extension of the microwave link within NRZ from Dabuka to Bulawayo
- 8-



(US$4.0 million) has led to improved signaling and telecommunications.
(d)    Replacement of steam locomotives and enhancing shunting capabilitv. A total of nine (9)
overaged locomotives of DE6 series are under remanufactuing using new General Electric
engines and other ancillary systems at a total cost of US$7.2 million. The remanufactured
locomotives can be used both as main line and shunting locomotives and when fully
available, would replace the existing fleet of steam locomotives, leading to considerable
savings in operating costs.
(e)   Tmprovement in mobility of maintenance staff. Road vehicles were purchased at a total
cost of US$2.1 million to improve the mobility of maintenance and project staff.
(t)   Improved workshop maintenance. Miscellaneous items of plant and workshop equipment,
worth about US$3.3 million, were purchased to improve the speed and quality of
maintenance in the maintenance workshops.
(g)   Information systems. About US$1.2 million was spent in improving the information
systems through procurement of hard and software.
(iii)   Operational Restructuring. Various short studies (actual cost US$0.8 million) were undertaken
to restructure the operations and improve operational performance. The main studies included: (a)
Manpower Study; (b) Cost Accounting System Study; (c) Assets Revaluation Study; and (d) Operations
Simulation Study. A number of studies were also undertaken in-house, notably. (1) Terminal Control
Information Study, (2) flexi-link system of operations; and (3) Locomotive Maintenance Audit. The
recommendations of these studies have mostly been implemented.
(iv)   Financial Management. Improvements in financial management were mostly internally driven but
technical assistance was also available under the MSDP.
(v)    Staff Rationalization. A total amount of US$5.0 million was reallocated to finance payments
under the voluntary early retirement scheme of the NRZ.
(vi)   Concessioning Studies. A total of US$0.4 million was spent on consultancy services to evaluate
concessioning options and preparation of the bidding documents.
B.    Physical Investments carried out under other donor financing arrangements (totaling about
US$75.0 million) are discussed below:
(i)    A USAID grant was used for purchase of 43 engines to replace the existing engines in the shunting
locomotives of series 9 and 9A and purchase of 14 new locomotives of higher capacity at a total cost of
US$31.8 million.
(ii)   Swiss assistance financed the procurement of radio equipment at a total cost of US$3.5 million
equivalent.
(iii)   KfW financed equipment for the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls Centralized Traffic Control System
(CTC) at a total cost of US$ 6.6 million.
(iv)   F1IJNIDA financed the procurement of a 100-ton breakdown crane at a cost of US$1.4 million.
-9-



(v)    AfDB financed passenger coaches at a cost of US$22.8 million, the replacement of CTC
supervisory equipment and telephone carrier on the Harare-Mutare line for US$4.0 million, and the
replacement of obsolete portable radios for train crews at a total cost of about US$0.32 million.
(vi)   DANIDA financed a workshop maintenance audit and the development of a locomotive
maintenance infornation system at a cost of US$0.08 million.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The original assumptions in computing ERR at the time of project formulation in 1990 were as follows: (i)
the "'No Project" traffic would be the one achieved in the financial year 1990, i.e., 5,394 million
-ton-kilometers; (ii) the traffic under the project would increase to 6,639 million ton-kilometers by the
financial year 1995 and then continue to remain at the same level; (iii) the road cost would continue to be
Z$ 0.114/ton-kilometer; and (iv) the rail cost, Z$ 0.080/ton-kilometer during 1991, would drop to Z$
0.047/ton-kilometer by the financial year 1995.
The Loan became effective in July 1991. In spite of project support to NRZ in terms of technical
assistance, consultancy studies, Bank supervision and monitoring by the Government, there was a sharp
decline in traffic between 1991 and 1994. It is realistic to assume that the traffic would have declined even
more sharply in the "No Project" scenario. Even so, a conservative approach has been taken for computing
the ERR and the same traffic profile has been adopted for the "No Project" scenario as for the "With
Project" scenario between 1991 and 1994. After 1994, the freight traffic carried by NRZ gradually
increased marginally as a result of further project support in terms of additional locomotives, spare parts,
machinery and plant, and infrastructure rehabilitation. In the absence of this support, the traffic would not
have experienced any recovery but would have continued to decline further as it has happened in other
railways. However, adopting a conservative approach, the traffic levels have been kept at the 1994 level
after 1994 in the "No Project" scenario. As regards the "With Project" scenario, the traffic level attained in
1998 was assumed to remain constant until 2000. A 2.5% increase was considered attainable in 2001 as a
result of the increased usage of the new Beitbridge-Bulawayo link and expected improvement in the
working of Zambia Railways. This traffic level was held constant until 2010. No other benefits were
taken into consideration in the reassessment of the ERR, in particular benefits related to the concessioning
of the railways. Indeed, the project was a cornerstone to building consensus and commitment in favor of
the concessioning process and, as a result, NRZ is likely to start implementing the concessioning of the
railways by the end of the year 2000.
In spite of the decline in the volume of the traffic handled by NRZ the total operating cost/ton-kilometer (at
1991 prices) declined from Z$ 0.125 in 1991 to Z$ 0.107 in 1994 mainly due to improved utilization of
assets, progressive discontinuation of the practice by NRZ of hiring locomotives from South African
Railways, and reduction in the average number of foreign wagons on NRZ network. Even though, the
reduction in unit cost was influenced by the project, a conservative approach has been adopted and the unit
costs for the "With Project" and the "No Project" scenarios have been kept the same until 1994. As a result
of the implementation of the project, the unit cost per ton-kilometer dropped gradually to Z$ 0.101 in 1995
and then to Z$ 0.074 in 1998. This decline took place mainly as a result of staff reduction by NRZ from
about 17,000 in 1990 to less than 10,000 in the year 1998. The same unit cost has been assumed for the
years 1999 to 2010.
The unit cost by road was assumed as Z$ 0.114 in terms of the 1989 prices. This has been converted to Z$
0.1789 at 1991 prices and has been assumed to remain constant, being already on the lower side with the
-1 0 -



cost of road maintenance not being fully reflected in the computation of this cost.
The rail unit cost under the "No Project" scenario has been assumed to be constant at the 1994 level since,
in the absence of the project inputs, there is no prospect of the costs dropping.
Based on the above assumptions, the revised ERR has been computed as 29% for the whole project. The
ERR at appraisal was estimated at 20%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The original assumptions in computing the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at the time of project
formulation in 1990 were as follows: (i) the "No Project" free cash flow would be the one achieved in the
financial year 1991 (1991 Z$), estimated at Z$ 106.0 million; and (ii) the free cash flow under the project
would gradually increase to Z$ 386.0 million by the year 1994, mainly due to increase in traffic and also
reduction in expenditure and then remain constant thereafter.
The Loan became effective in July 1991. In spite of project support to NRZ in terms of technical
assistance, consultancy studies, Bank supervision and monitoring by the Government, there was a sharp
decline in traffic between 1991 and 1994. As a result, the free cash flow declined in 1994 to about Z$-30
million at 1991 prices. It is realistic to assume that the cash flow would have declined even more sharply in
the "No Project" scenario. Even so, a conservative approach has been taken for computing the FRR and the
same cash flow profile has been adopted for the "No Project" scenario as for the "With Project" scenario
between 1991 and 1994. As a result of the increased usage of the new Beitbridge-Bulawayo link and
expected improvement in the working of Zambia Railways the gross income is expected to increase by
2.5% per year for the years 2001 and 2002 and by 1% per year thereafter. The expenditure is expected to
decline by 15% in 2001 and held constant until 2010.
Based on the above assumptions, the revised FRR has been computed as 10% for the whole project. The
original FRR was estimated at 50% for the base case and at 21% for a sensitivity analysis considering an
achievement of the preformance targets lagging by three years.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a significant impact in terms of institutional development. The actions taken to curtail
investments and reduce staff in response to the declining traffic reflect a substantial improvement in NRZ's
institutional capability. NRZ's institutional capability improved mainly as a result of: (i) GOZ and NRZ
signing yearly performance agreements which, while granting more autonomy to NRZ, also required it to
be more accountable, (ii) NRZ's top and middle management gaining valuable experience through their
secondment to foreign railways and through working closely with foreign technical experts; (iii) NRZ's
Board of Directors being strengthened and given more powers, and (iv) NRZ getting more advanced
computers and software for analytical work. The improvement in the institutional capability was faster
than expected, as a result of which the technical assistance contracts were revised and technical assistance
substantially curtailed. Currently, there are no expatriate staff working in NRZ, compared to about 300 at
the beginning of the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
At the commencement of the project discussions in 1990, NRZ's overall yearly deficit was about US$100.0
- 11 -



million. This amount was equivalent to about 60% of its gross revenue and 3% of Zimbabwe's GDP.
NRZ's top and middle management was young and inexperienced, and the trucking sector was beginning to
emerge as a strong alternative mode of transport in direct competition with the railways. NRZ's traffic was
further adversely affected by a number of developments beyond NRZ's control such as the commissioning
of an oil products pipe line between Mutare and Harare, discovery of iron ore deposits that were closer to
the steel plant than the original iron ore mines served by the railways, production problems at the steel
plant, slow growth of the economy, the closure of the local ferro-chrome industry for a considerable period
of time, and the worsening of the economies of Zaire (now DRC) and Zambia. As a result, NRZ's freight
traffic, which was projected to increase from a little less than 14 million tons during the financial year 1990
(ending June 30, 1990) to 16 million tons by financial year 1994, actually declined to 10.5 million tons
during the financial year 1994. The traffic has since recovered and is about 12 million tons per year.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Heavy inflation and currency depreciation during project implementation period caused NRZ's operating
costs to escalate, affecting the financial performance of the railways. Even though NRZ was enabled by
GOZ to raise freight tariffs to compensate for inflation and exchange rate losses, the increase was limited
by strong competition from the trucking sector. NRZ was also constrained to keep the passenger tariffs as
determined by GOZ.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Most indicators of performance did not improve as envisaged in the Operations Improvement Plan. In
particular, the factors that adversely affected the performance of the railways and prevented them from
increasing the traffic by at least 15% included are discussed below. Wagon utilization declined to 29
kilometers per wagon per day in 1999 against a target of 75 kms and the actual figure of about 50
kms/wagon day achieved during the years 1995-1998. Hiring of locomotives from South Africa increased
during 1999 to eight (8) as against nil from 1993 to 1997. The number of foreign wagons on the NRZ
network has also increased during the last few years. Reliability of locomotives of series IOA continues to
stagnate below 30,000 kilometers between failures against a previous maximum of 70,000 kms achieved in
1991 and a target which in an efficiently-operated railway should exceed 100,000. Average wagon load
also continues to be a little less than 40 tons, which, given the permissible axle load of 18.4 tons, is quite
low.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Since GOZINRZ initiated action to cancel/curtail many of the investrnents included under the project, there
was never a case of inadequate financing of the project components from any donor agency at any stage of
the project. However, the railways did face a cash crunch due to GOZ not always compensating for the
losses incurred by NRZ in providing certain unprofitable services at the behest of the Government as public
service obligations.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely. The actions taken byNRZ in reducing the staff levels from 17,000 in 1990 to less
than 10,000 currently are now paying off in terms of reduced expenditure and a positive cash flow in the
year 1999. In addition, GOZ's decision to concession the railways (also as a consequence of the
interactions under the Railways II Project) will increase the prospects of the railways becoming financially
- 12 -



self-sustaining. The Bank has already agreed with GOZ to prepare a Railways Restructuring Project
(RRP) to assist GOZ finance staff redundancies to facilitate successful concessioning of the railways. The
project is scheduled for Board presentation sometimes in the middle of FY2001.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The railways are scheduled to be concessioned by the end of the year 2000. The current management is
fully capable of managing the railways until then. NRZ management with the aproval of GOZ has
strengthened the marketing function and intends to open a performance monitoring cell within the Ministry
of Transport to monitor NRZ's performance. However, the announcement of GOZ's intention to concession
the railways has already caused considerable anxiety among the staff and any delay in the concessioning
process can lead to a decline in performance. The Government is aware of the risks and is trying to
expedite the process.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending.
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was highly satisfactor. with
considerable effort invested to assist GOZ to coordinate donors and to design the project. The Bank
conducted a review of the Zimbabwe transport sector in 1986, during which a number of underlying causes
of NRZ's deteriorating operating and financial performance were identified. The review was followed by a
number of detailed studies on efficiency problems which recommendations were used as the basis to design
the project. The project was well designed and all aspects were given due attention.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. Regular supervision missions took place and
detailed aide-memoires were prepared and jointly signed with the implementing agencies and later with the
borrower. During supervision, the Bank helped the Borrower in identifying technical problems and
developing appropriate solutions. Facing new realities, the Bank showed flexibility to amend the Loan and
Project Agreements and to reallocate unutilized funds to focus particularly on the organizational
restructuring of NRZ and staff rationalization. The most significant aspect of the supervision effort by the
Bank was the realization around 1995 that there are limits to improving the performance of a railway when
the railway is publicly owned and managed.
During the last three years or so, the Bank missions continuously urged GOZ to consider private
participation in the operation and management of the railways. Following discussions during the
supervision missions, GOZ sent teams comprising high-ranking officials of NRZ and GOZ to visit a
number of countries where the privatization/concessioning of railways had led to a significant increase in
the levels of traffic, quality of service, and profitability. These teams visited Argentina, New Zealand UK,
USA, Sweden, and many other countries. The Bank also facilitated internal seminars to discuss the issues
of privatization. GOZ constituted its own committees to examine the appropriateness of concessioning.
The final decision of GOZ to concession the railways reflects a very significant outcome of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactorv.
-13 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory as regards project identification, preparation and
appraisal. It participated fully in discussions concerning project component identification.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance during project implementation was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project was implemented by NRZ. NRZ's performance during project implementation was overall
satisfactorv.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons, which are being incorporated in the follow-up operation in the pipeline, can be
learned from the Zimbabwe Railways II Project:
I.    The parastatal framework, within which most railways have been operating so far, has proven
inadequate for effective delivery of transport services under a scenario of economic liberalization and the
consequent heightening of inter-modal competition as well as increase in the customers' expectations with
regard to quality of service. As a result, most railways have experienced a sharp decline in their share of
traffic, both freight and passenger. Efforts to reform the organizational behavior of the railways within the
parastatal framework have generally failed to make a significant impact due to the continuing problems of
excess employment, lack of incentives, and inadequate accountability normally associated with the railways
managed as parastatals or government departments. One clear lesson of the project is that if the railways
are to survive, the parastatal framework would prove grossly inadequate.
2.    Private participation in the operation and management of the railways through concessions appears
to have led to a resurgence of railways in many parts of the world. Even in Zimbabwe, a limited BOT type
of concession for building and operating a new Beitbridge-Bulawayo link appears to have led to a
substantial increase in the freight traffic moving by rail. A clear lesson of the project is that privatization
of railways would be unavoidable, if the railways are to remain an important mode of transport. Delaying
the decision and/or implementation in regard to privatization can prove quite costly in terms of mounting
losses. The need for privatization is even more acute for the railways in sub-Saharan Africa as their
Governments are under considerable financial pressure and are unable to provide any financial support to
the railways even for public service obligations carried out by the railways at their behest.
3.    Massive staff redundancy has emerged as a key factor impacting on the successful restructuring
and privatization of railways. Most railways in sub-Saharan Africa are overstaffed, some to the extent of
300 to 400%. The railways need to address the issue of staffredundancy with a great deal of urgency.
-14-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Objectives
The objectives of the Project were:
1.    To support the organizational, financial and asset restructuring of NRZ to
enable it to increase the utilization of its capacity, cater effectively to the prospective
demand for rail transport and become financially self-sustaining.
2.    To reduce the economic cost of rail transport and stem the costly diversion of
traffic from rail to road.
3.    To relax the transport constraint on productive sectors reliant on railway
transport.
4.    To improve the level of cost recovery in NRZ and reduce its claims on
government resources.
5.    To improve the utilization of the Mozambican transport corridor to the benefit
of both Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
B.    Project Design
In our opinion the project design was comprehensive in that it covered capital goods,
personnel development, financial goals, systems development and environmental
issues. These attributes are all required in a developing country.
C.   Works and Goods
Items purchased under works and goods were worthy investments. Both economic
and financial returns should accrue for years to come.
Training
Exposure of technical and I.T. staff to latest management techniques was successfully
evidenced by lack of expatriates on the system and little subcontracting of core railway
functions. Senior Managers' exposure to leading international business schools was a
morale booster and resulted in good decision making.
D.   Consultancy
- 15 -



Technical assistance for the project excluding for I.T. was in our opinion
over-budgeted and over rated in terms of deliverables. Short term specific Technical
Assistance would have yielded better results.
The long-term Technical Assistance for Management and Supervisory Development
(CANAC) raised high expectations, which produced average results. For Zimbabwe
and NRZ the amount spent would have had a better return if used for staff
rationalisation (US$5m was diverted to redundancies and the results are promising).
E.    Key Performance Parameters during the Loan Period
National Railways of Zimbabwe managed to:
1.    Reduce staff from 16,799 in 1991 to about 10,000 in 1999 i.e. 40%.
2.    Move traffic of 14,409, 000 in 1991 which was the highest since 1969.
3.    Have freedom to set tariffs without Government permission.
4.    Successful move grain traffic for the country and region during one of the
worst drought years 1992-93.
F.    Donors
The multiple investment of other donors in the project was welcome, but streamlining
of procurement procedures and protocols is recommended in future projects.
G.   Disbursement Section and Staff Appraisal
Support from the World Bank disbursement section was excellent. Relationship with
Staff on Mission Appraisal was very good as there was continuity on both the Bank
and NRZ staff during the course of the loan.
H.   Overall General Assessment of Prolect
On a scale of 1 -10 the, rating for the project would be 8. A higher score would have
been achieved had there been strict adherence to the timetable on proposals for
institutional reforms and capital restructuring. The 1992 drought also affected the
economy and NRZ's customers. Financial self-sustenance was not achieved as a
result.
The project met its objectives and in our view was a success.
(Annexures covering detailed individual assessments are attached).
- 16 -



Project Implementation Completion Re ort: Loan Agreement 3273 Zim
Category             Project Cost      Funding       Project Objectives                Degree of Achievement of         Evaluation of                Plan For Project
Agency                                         Objectives                        Performance                  Sustalnability
1. Works
Data Transmission    USD I 513 309    World Bank    Replace obsolete system run on the   Benefits are accruing by       llas automated a number of   Backbone due to be
Link                                                 old Mainframe, upgrade to new    introduction of additional        our systems e.g. Reservation    replaced after 15
interlinked system and add desired    expansions using inhouse expertise   (Hre & Blr), Tenninal Control   years from
features to IT and systems.                                       infonnation (Hre & BIr)      commissioning
(2010)
CTC North Line (BLR   DM 12 654 218    KFW           Replace Life-expired CTC          The system is available regularly as   The North Line still has the
-VF)                                                 equipment                         a result there is minimal disruption    following problems:-  Due to be replaced
to train movement                - communication using        after 15 years from
overhead lines               commissioning (in
- inadequate power supply    2008)
back-up
- dc track circuited block
sections.
CTC and Telephone    USD 4 078 418    African        Replace CTC supervisory           The project is not yet complete.  Cannot evaluate performance
-4              carrier (Harare -                       Development  equipment installed in the mid    Equipment and accessories for its    as system is still not    To be replaced 15
Mutare)                                Bank           1950s which had become unreliable  installation are in place. It is not  operational.          years after
and difficult to maintain. Enhance    possible at this stage to state the                      commissioning.
Telecommunications on that section   degree of achievement.
of the Railway line.
Microwave Link       DM 12 909 087    World Bank    Provide a reliable transmission    The system provides a mainline   The telecommunication aspect   The system is
(BLR-DU)                                              system which acts as fall-back  interference free communication   addresses only one of a      duplicated and well
system to support train movement    network.                      multiple system-related facets   supported in the
during line side signalling failures.                             e.g. the power to the lineside    region
signalling and block signalling
is still vulnerable and accounts
for significant outages.
On successful completion it
Electrification      USD 1 992 489    World Bank    To ensure same mode of traction    Benefits can only be assessed once    will be possible to evaluate
from Lochinvar to Msasa (i.e. from   the project is complete.     performance.
Electric to Diesel) so as to allow
continuous traffic flow.



Category             Project Cost      Funding       Project Objectives               Degree of Achievement of          Evaluation of                Plan For Project
Agency                                         Objectives                       Performance                  Sustainability
2. Goods
Locomotives (DE 11)   USD 23 731 680   USAID        To provide traction power to      The acquisition of the DEI I     The DE II has been able to   Sustainability
replace the diverse types of life-  locomotive resulted in the diverse    exceed the General Molors  through improved
expired Diesel Locomotives which   types of locomotives (DEl, DE2,    standard of 90 000 Mean  reliability is
had to be retired and streamline the   DE3, DE4, DE5, DE7 and DES)  Engine Kilometres Between  threatened by lack
locomotive types to allow for    being retired. The lodomotive types  Failure (MEKBF) and      of spare parts due to
standardisation. To provide motive   have been reduced to 5 from 13  achieved utilisation averaging    unavailability of
power equivalent to Electric     different types. Provision of motive  542,5 km/dayAocomotive from   funds. If scheduled
Locomotives to allow for quick   power to pull matching train loads    1994 to 1998.           maintenance
handover of traffic.             to electric locomotives on non-                               services are met the
electrified section is assured.                               locomotive will last
its useful life.
The shunt locomotives whose
Re-engining of       USD 3 426 040    World Bank    To repower the core shunting      The re-engined shunt locomotives    availability averages 70%
DE9/9A               USD 7 450 348    USAID          locomotive fleet to improve      have provided traffic with their  MDBF is considered above the
availability and reliability and  shunt requirements with availability   norm when compared to  Failure to adhere to
standardise on the engine type.  averaging 70%/e from 1994 to 1998    previous performance of 30%.   recommended
and reliability averaging 112.5                               maintenance cycles
Mean Days Before Failure (MDBF).                              due to lack of spare
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~parts threatens the
Co                                                                                                                                                                 sustainability of this
project.
DE6 Re-engining      USD 7 250 049    World Bank    DE6 repowering was intended to    Because of late arrival of some   Failure to adequately attend to   Adherence to
provide tractive power suitable for   essential spares it has not been  sub-systems such as    maintenance cycles
heavy shunts and Branch line     possible to complete the re-engining   generators, traction motors and  through regular
operation. The re-powering was   by the target date of December   control systems during re-   availability of
also meant to provide replacement    1998. The re-engined 4 units are,    engining adversely affected  spares will enable
motive power after retiring other  however, achieving a daily   , locomotive reliability,      the locomotive to
types of diesel locomotives and  availability averaging 89%/o and                              reach its extended
steam locomotives.               utilisation has been about 100                                life.
km/day/locomotive.
Locomotive Spare     USD 2 994 390    World Bank    The spare parts procured under the                                  Performance of the
Parts                                                project were meant for deferred  The availability of spare parts   organisation was satisfactory    Spare parts
maintenance programmes due to   enabled the organisation to meet the   especially in ensuring that  availability will
insufficient allocation of foreign  planned maintenance scheduled at    drought relief goods were  ensure that our
currency by the Govemment. There  that time as well as the emergency    transported.           locomotive fleet is
was also need to ensure constant  repairs.                                                     well maintained,
availabilty of motive power for                                                                hence reliable and
transportation of drought relief.                                                              available.



Category              Project Cost      Funding        Project Objectives                Degree of Achievement of           Evaluation of                 Plan For Project
Agency                                           Objectives                         Performance                   Sustainability
Service Vehicles      USD 2 089 195    World Bank    Procurement of service vehicles was  The vehicles have assisted in     The vehicles have served their   Regular replacement
intended to replace life-expired  meeting the operational           useful life although some are    of life-expired
non-revenue eaming vehicles as    requirements of the NRZ.          still in NRZ service.          vehicles is essential
well as Manex and Branch Head                                                                     to ensure a reliable
vehicles.                                                                                         fleet at all times.
Mainline Railway      USD 22 806 109   African         Replacement of life-expired       The 56 mainline railWay coaches    The new passenger coaches     Planned
Coaches                                 Development   passenger coaches to enhance the   have been introduced into service.    contribution to the passenger    maintenance will
Bank           lcvel of service and efficiency in the                              services business has still to be   enable the coaches
passenger business.                                                 evaluated.                     reach their useful
life.
Portable Radios for   200. 740         African        Replacement of obsolete /life-     100%                              The radios are functioning
Train Crews                             Development   expired radios.                                                       satisfactorily.               The radios need to
Bank                                                                                                              be replaced by year
2001 when they
become life-expired.
Breakdown Crane       FM 10 660 577    FINNIDA         To acquire Crane of adequate      The crane meets all the purposes for  The crane is performing
co                                                                      capacity for breakdowns and       which it was procured.             satisfactorily.
emergencies.                                                                                       Regular
maintenance will
ensure long service
life of the crane.
Equipment has been commissioned    Machining of axles and       Recommended
into service and is expected to   traction motor shafts has been    maintenance cycles
Workshop Machinery   USD 1607 278       World Bank                                        achieve the intended purpose.     reduced by 60%.               need to be carried
out to ensure full
life service.
Plant & Equipment     USD I 674 289    World Bank    Replacement of over aged             All equipment has been received   Safety has been enhanced.     Regular
machinery and equipment in        and commissioned into service and    Repairs to wagons and coaches   maintenance needs
workshops at Bulawayo Dabuka     is expected to achieve intended    have been speeded up.         to be carried out to
and Mutare as well as various     purpose.                                                         ensure maximum
Permanent Way Maintenance                                                                          use.
equipment
Workshop MAnchinery   USD  607 27       World Bank    To introduce modem equipment into the   Equipment has been commissioned    Machining time of axles and  Recommended mainte-
USD 1607 278                Workshop as replacement &/or to   into service and is expected to   traction motor shafts has been    nance cycles need to
augment capacity of old equipment.  achieve the intended purpose.    reduced by 60%.               be carried out to
ensure .till life service.



Category              Project Cost      Funding       Project Objectives                Degree of Achievement of          Evaluation of                Plan For Project
Agency                                          Objectives                        Performance                  Sustainability
3. Consultancy
Services
Management and        USD 5 413 303    World Bank    To improve the quality and calibre    Appropriate strategic units were  The strategic units have been    There is continued
Supervisory                                           of NRZ management and             established in pursuance of the   able to avail information and    review and revision
Development                                           supervisory personnel. To         objectives. Marketing function,   service to both the customers    on the strategies to
(CANAC)                                               upgrade, modemise and streamline    operations management centre,   and management, monitor      keep abreast with
Technical Assistance                                  working systems and procedures in  locomotive maintenaidce          performance, allocate        times.
order to achieve efficient corporate   management, production, planning    resources according to
working, enhance transport capacity  and control, yard operation   business dictates.
and optimise asset utilisation.  improvement and customer services
units. Mixed results on success.
RITES Technical       USD I 924 698    World Bank    To complete the I.T. technical     Project successfully completed.                                The Consultants'
Assistance                                            assistance programme commenced    Conversion of systems from NEAT                                technical assistance
during the previous World Bank   computer language to COBOL was                                  is being applied and
Loan.                            achieved but migration to online has                            adjusted, where
not yet been achieved.                                         necessary, to suit
our enviroumcnt.
QED: I.T. Training    USD 84 000        World Bank    Assist in training new and existing I.T.   Conversion of systems from NEAT   The inadequacy of acquired
personnel following the exodus of  computer language to COBOL was   skills coupled with staff tum-
experienced staff.               achieved but migration to online has  over at the Computer Bureau
To equip staff with skills to enable to    not yet been achieved,  have not made it possible to
migrate from batch oriented systems                                change from batch based
developmcnt techniques to the new                                  system to online.
online
Systems Analysis and Database
administration
4. Studies
Cost Accounting       USD 153 136       World Bank   To improve the Railway Cost        The study has achieved the        Recommendations made          The study forms
Study (MERCER)                                        accounting systems in order to    intended objective barring        and/or methods used by        the benchmark for
enhance the information          hiccups from other support        MERCER are being applied   future revision
available to support             systems.                          in the determination of       necessitated by
management decision-making                                         rates/tariffs.               imminent
process.                                                                                         changes.



Category           Project Cost    Funding      Project Objectives             Degree of Achievement of      Evaluation of              Plan For Project
Agency                                     Objectives                    Performance                Sustainability
Manpower Study     USD 440 803    World Bank  To undertake a review of NRZ    The NRZ managed to reduce the  Complements were reduced   The continued
(Price Waterhouse/                              staff levels and note the      complement and abolished 829   thereby achieving, in some   restructuring
Transurb)                                       prevailing procedures and      positions. A voluntary early  instances, the delayering  process will
practices to set up staff    retirement scheme was          exercise thus reducing     determine/decide
complements, determine levels   introduced resulting in another   reporting levels.   the staff levels to
of utilisation and wastage and  2 479 employees being                                  be retained by the
propose appropriate de-layering.  released.                                            Railways.
Design, develop and instal a
Computerised manpower
planning model for management
information purposes.
5. Miscellaneous
M~                                                         To improve the calibre of     22 members of management                                 Training is an on-
Staff Development   USD 514 289    World Bank   managerial staff and strengthen   employees attended the                                going exercise. It
(Overseas                                       their capacity for managing    manpower development                                     will be necessary to
Secondment)                                     complex Railway operations     programmes.                                              provide refresher
effectively and efficiently.                                                           attendees or develop
another programme
Staff Redundancy    USD 5 000 000   W  1d Bank   To finalise the Voluntary Early  2479 Early Retirees have been                        for other staff.
fRedundancy    USD 5 000 000   Vorld Bank   Retirement Scheme             paid out of the fund.
To establish the NRZ asset base,  The revaluation of assets was  The Asset base on NRZ was
Asset Revaluation    USD 133 017    World Bank   criteria for revaluing fixed assets  completed in June 1996. The  verified and information  There has been a
(Richard Ellis)                                  and develop appropriate software  degree of success is in line with  availed assisted in making    recent update of
for revaluing assets.         accepted normns.              ADB Loan effective        the Asset Register
To review the procedure for the                                                        Giersing and the
computation of depreciation in                                                         NRZ Equipment
line with the criteria for                                                             sub-committee on
revaluation of fixed assets                                                            Restructuring.
Ongoing updates
will ensure a
Correct Asset
Register.



Category            Project Cost    Funding      Project Objectives            Degree of Achievement of      Evaluation of             Plan For Project
Agency                                     Objectives                    Performance               Sustainability
Miscellaneous
Cont'd
USD 133 017   World Bank  To establish the NRZ asset base,  The revaluation of assets was  The Asset base on NRZ was  There has been a
AssetRevaluation                                criteria for revaluing fixed assets  completed in June 1996. The  verified  and  information  recent update of
(Richard Ellis)                                 and develop appropriate software  degree of success is in line with  availed assisted in making  the Asset Register
for revaluing assets.         accepted norms.               ADB Loan effective.       (May 1996) by Bo
Giersing and the
To review the procedure for the                                                       NRZ  Equipment
computation of depreciation in                                                        sub-committee on
line  with  the  criteria  for                                                        Restructuring.
revaluation of fixed assets.                                                           Ongoing  updates
will  ensure   a
Correct    Asset
Register.
USD 135 945    World Bank  To develop recommendations for  Recommendations made were  Although                the
Railway Regulatory                              the  creation  of a  Railway  given on the basis of separation  recommendations for the role
M   Authority (Mercer)                           Regulatory  Authority  which  of infrastructure from operations  of the Regulatory Authority
oversees and  supervises the  and equipment.                were  on  the  basis  of
operations  of  the  Railway                                infrastructure   separation
Industry in Zimbabwe.                                       from    operations,   the
Regulatory Authority can
still play its role on other
modes of concessioning.
Railway            USD 197 775    World Bank  To   advise   broadly   on  Requests  for  proposals  for  In the event of a particular
Restructuring (CIE                              concessioning business, draw up  infrastructure concessioning were  mode of concessioning being
Consult)                                        requests  for  proposal  for  prepared and bids submitted. in  adopted which would require
concessioning  assist  in  the  view of the revised mode of  the inputs of CIE and the
evaluation of Bids and assist in  concessioning this has had to be  Restructuring sub-committee
the   management  of  the  shelved. RFPs for two vertical  the information has already
implementation of concessioning.  concessions    were    being  been gathered.
developed by the Restructuring
Sub-committee and CIE Consult.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate) (US$)
Expenditure Category                    ICB              Procurement        Method          N.B.F.
_________________________________NCB_(Proprietary             Other
1. Works
Data Transmission Link                        1 513 309               000              000           000
Electrification                               1 992 489               000              000           000
Microwave Link (Blr-Du)                       4 078 418               000              000           000
2. Goods
Spares                                        1 050 495          1 943 895             000           000
Plant & Equipment                             1 674 289               000              000           000
Service Vehicles                              2 089 195               000              000           000
DE6 Re-Engineering                            1 159 063          6 090 986             000           000
Workshop Machinery                            1 607 278               000              000           000
3. Services
MSD Canac Consultancy                              000                000         5 413 303          000
Rites Consultancy                                  000                000         1 924 698          000
4. Miscellaneous
Manpower Study                                     000                000          440 803           000
000
Cost Accounting Study                                                 000          153 136           000
5. Miscellaneous
Asset Revaluation                                  000                 000         192 104           000
6. Miscellaneous
Overseas Secondment                                000                 000         514 289           000
Staff Redundancy                                   000                 000        5 000 000          000
TOTAL                                        15 164 537          8 034 881       13 718 115          000
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate) (US$)
Expenditure Category            ICB                Procurement       Method            N.B.F.
NCB              Other
CTC North Line (Blr-Vf)                        00               00  DM12 654 218             00
Limited to German
Suppliers
FM 10 660 577
Breakdown Crane                                00               00  Limited to Finnish       00
companies
00
CTC And                             USD 4 078 418               00                           00
Telephone }
Carrier                                                                            00
Main Line                          USD 22 806 109               00                           00
Railway   } ADB FUNDED
Coaches                                                                            00
Portable                                 200 740               00                           00
Radios for }
Train Crews
USD 23 731 680
Mainline Locomotives (DEI 1)                                         Limited to USA
00               00  Suppliers               00
USD 7 450 348
Re-engining of 44 DE 9A                                              (Proprietary, only
locomotives                                    00               00  USA)                    00
USD 79 783
Locomotive Maintenance                                              (DANIDA)
Information Systems                            00               00                           00
-24 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.
10. Additional Information
Proposed Government Concessioning Model for the Railway System of Zimbabwe
1. I  The initial concessioning program was based on the vertical separation of the rail infrastructure
from operating activities, with the latter services to be provided on a competitive open-access basis. A
draft regulatory and licensing framework to complement this model was prepared by Government with
the assistance of a major international consulting firm. A request for expression of interest was issued
in July 1998 and a bidding process was launched in October 1998. This process was suspended in
December 1998 following changes in MOTE and renewed concerns about the possible complexity of
the model and the perceived risks to the economy in the event of disruptions to railway operations at the
start-up of operations under a vertically unbundled railways structure. A revised model was developed
by the government in February 1999. This model sought to capture the benefits of competition in the
provisions of railways services whilst avoiding the high transaction costs involved in a vertically
separated system. The following sub-paragraphs summarize this new model.
a)    Two geographically-separated concessions would be awarded in addition to the BOT type
concession already awarded for the Beitbridge-Bulawayo section. The scope and perimeter of the three
vertically-integrated concessions (including the Beitbridge-Bulawayo concession) would be as follows
(both the scope and perimeter of the concessions are subject to confirmation after a review of the traffic
trend on the different corridors):
*      XEastern concession to comprise: (i) the rail network north-east of Dabuka (Gweru);
(ii) the Dabuka-Chicualcuala line linking the NRZ network to the port of Maputo
through the Limpopo Line; (iii) the Mutare workshop; and (iv) the locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance depots and other maintenance facilities falling within the
region.
*      Southern concession to comprise: (i) the whole network south of Dabuka (Gweru)
including the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls section; (ii) the line taking off from
Dabuka-Chicualacuala main line to Beitbridge and onwards to the ports of Durban and
Port Elizabeth, RSA; (iii) the line linking the NRZ network to Plumtree and onwards to
Botswana; (iv) the Bulawayo workshop; and (v) the locomotive and rolling stock
maintenance depots and other maintenance facilities falling within the region.
*     Beitbridge-Bulawayo railway concession comprising the construction and operation of
the Beitbridge-Bulawayo railway line, already awarded on a BOT basis.
b)    The concessionaires may enter into contracts for using each other's workshop facilities or even
existing private facilities. NRZ confirmed that the two existing workshops could be geared to maintain
all types of locomotives with small additional investments.
c)     The three concessionaires would have trackage rights over each others' network for
inter-concession traffic. However, intra-concession traffic would be reserved for the incumbent
-25 -



concessionaire during the first three years of the concession.
d)    The concession agreements will include clauses for providing open access to other eligible
operators after a period of three years.
e)    NRZ would have no role as an operator. However, a National Railways Holding Co. (already
incorporated) would administer the concession contracts, performing the following functions: (i)
accounting for concession fees and lease payments; (ii) monitoring the performance of the concession
contracts on behalf of the Government; and (iii) keeping the Government advised on the working of the
concessions. The existing NRZ would have the responsibility of disposing of surplus land, buildings,
equipment, and other non-conceded assets, as well as of managing the retrenchment program, and
subsequently winding itself up.
f)     The regulatory framework designed for the initial concession model would be revisited and
revised to accommodate the current concessioning model and structure.
2.     The MOTE model seeks to: (i) foster competition between the regional economic corridors
linking Zimbabwe to the Mozambican ports of Beira and Maputo, and to the South African Ports of
Durban and Port Elizabeth; (ii) accommodate the already awarded BOT concession for the
Beitbridge-Bulawayo railway line in the proposed concessioning model; (iii) ensure, right from the
start, adequate competition between the selected concessionaires for provision of services across the
system, with greater competition to be introduced later through a policy of open access to the system to
other operators; (iv) reduce transaction costs between infrastructure concessionaires and transport
operators; (v) allow for a more progressive build-up of the regulatory capacity, and (vi) enhance the
availability of information for comparative monitoring of the performance of concessionaires.
3.    Like the alternative models initially considered, the current model emphasizes an appropriate
balance between revenue-raising by the Government and the benefits to accrue to transport users.
Appropriate emphasis continues to be put by the Government on: (i) competition for the market at
concessioning stage through the tendering process; (ii) competition within the market through the
granting of track access rights; and (iii) provision of the required regulatory framework.
Staff Rationalization
4.    Under the concessioning process, the identification and treatment of surplus staff would be
undertaken as follows: (a) the concessionaires would first be allowed to select the staff required by
them out of the existing NRZ pool; (b) no staff would be retrenched prior to the selection of staff by the
concessionaires; and (c) the remaining NRZ staff would be deemed surplus and retired/retrenched.
This will also: (i) enable a more accurate assessment of the surpluses: (ii) avoid under or over
retrenchment; and (iii) ensure that competent staff required by the concessionaires would remain in the
railway industry, thus ensuring that the rail industry will not collapse.
5.    Agreement on the staff retrenchment package will then be sought byNRZ with the unions
representing the staff identified as surplus. The process for arriving at an appropriate retrenchment
package would follow Zimbabwean legislation and other relevant statutory provisions, as well as
market precedents.
6.    An agreement on the terms and conditions of a staff retrenchment package was reached
between NRZ and the trade unions under the initially devised concessioning process. This agreement
-26 -



expired in September 1999 and would need to be renegotiated under the new framework.
Status of Concessioning Process
7.    A draft information memorandum for solicitation of interest in the newly defined concessions
and the related bidding terms and conditions have been completed. Final cabinet approval, upon the
receipt of which a new bidding process would be launched, is currently being awaited.
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ACTUALS
TARGET  1990  1991  1992  193  14  1995  1996  197   98  199
1. Freight Traffic
Net Tonnes (million tons)              14.3  14.3  13.8  12.6  10.7  12.3  12.3  12.5  11.8  12.4
NTKM (Millions)                       5,580  5,384  5,843  5,488  4,327  4,754  5,011  4,781  4,460  4,267
2. Loco Availability %
DEIIA                             90                               75    87    86    69    67    80
DEIOA                             80    45    48    53    68    87    70    74    71    68    71
Other Diesel                      85    74    75    78    80    83    78    88    67    55    41
Electric                          80    74    75    76    80    83    78    80    74    79    78
3. Loco Reliability (MEKBF**)
DE IIA(000                       100                              114   181    66    51    60    46
DEIOA                             50    57    78    50    38    20    24    19    19    21    27
Electric                         100    54    61    80    25    30    27    30    39    70
4. Loco Utilisation
(Loco Km/Day/Loco in use)
DEIIA                            710                                     540   584   540   517   543
DE 1OA                           580   485   486   540   569   585   464   474   480   487   457
Other Diesel                     380   167   153   175   211   108    85    81    89   101   133
Electric                         645   351   358   410   383   382   400   383   398   395   380
5. Locos on Hire
No. AveragelDay                  -       10   -        7       -         -      -      -       2      6
6. Wagon Availability %
Overall                           93    97    94    94    92    95    96    92    82    92    93
7. Foreign Railway Wagons
(On daily basis)
Transit                          200   920   287   288   488   352   526   490   365   699   692
Other                          2,000  6,788  2,581  3,144 3,633  1,362  1,176 2,217  1,453  2,644  2,918
8. Average Wagon Load
Highsided                         45    38    40    40    39    40    39    39    38    37    39
Dropsided                         42    40    40    40    39    40    39    36    36    36    37
POL Tankcars                      40    30    30    30    30    30    30    34    34    36    37
9. Wagon Utilisation
(Wagon Km/Wagon Day in use)
Highsided                         80    36   4    I49   I44    45    48    l           50    45    28
** Mean Kilometers between failure
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost By Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal ActuallLatest Percentage
Estimate    Estimate      of
Proiect Component       US$ milliao  US$ million  Appraisal
Locomotives                          73.36        45.8   0.62
Rolling Stock                       112.59        24.6   0.22
Signals and Telecom                  14.44        30.8   2.13
Plant and Equipment                   7.36          3.3   0.44
Service Vehicles                        6          2.1   0.35
Breakdown Crane                        3.3          1.4   0.42
Electrification                      11.63          3.6   0.31
Information Systems                   2.6          0.1   0.04
Technical Assistance                25.87           7.3   0.28
Training                               3.9         0.5   0.13
Staff Redundancy                        -            5     -
Studies                              2.37           1.4   0.58
Total Baseline Cost                263.42         125.9    -
Total Proiect Costs                263.42         125.9    -
Total Financing Required           263.42         125.9    -
-29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
Procu rement Metlod /i
Expenditure Category            ICB         NCB        Other/2       N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                             7.60        0.00        0.00         12.00          0.00
(7.60)      (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            34.70        8.00         0.00        49.40           0.00
(7.60)      (8.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Technical Assistance              0.00        0.00         7.30         0.00           0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (7.30)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Studies and Training              0.00        0.00         1.90         0.00           0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (1.90)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Staff Rationalization             0.00        0.00         5.00         0.00           0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (5.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Unallocated                       0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00           0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                  42.30        8.00        14.20        61.40          125.90
L~ ~ ~~~~~~~     (5.20)  I (8.00)  I  (14,20)     (0.00)   I   (37.40"
/I Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
All costs include contingencies.
/2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consuting services,
services of contracts staffofthe project management office, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lendingprojectfunds
to local government units.
- 30 -



Comparative Project Costs: Appraisal Estimate, Revised Estimate and Actual
ACTUAL
Appraisal    Revised                                    Percentage   Percentage
Proiect Component    Estimate    Estimate    Bank  Donors  GOZ   Total  of Appraisal  of Revised
Locomotives             73.4        40.0       10.3   31.2    4.4    45.8       0.62         1.15
Rolling Stock          112.6         35.4              22.8    1.8    24.6      0.22         0.69
Signals and Telecom     14.4         7.8       5.6    14.8   10.4   30.8        2.13        3.95
Plant and Equipment     7.4          4.2       3.3                     3.3      0.44         0.78
Service Vehicles        6.0          6.7       2.1                    2.1       0.35         0.31
Breakdown Crane         3.3          1.9               1.4             1.4      0.42         0.74
Electrification         11.6         4.9       2.0             1.6    3.6       0.31         0.74
Information Systems     2.6          1.6               0.1             0.1      0.04         0.06
Technical Assistance   25.9          6.0       7.3                     7.3      0.28         1.22
Training                3.9          4.7       0.5                    0.5       0.13         0.11
Staff Redundancy        0.0          5.0       5.0                     5.0                   1.00
Studies                 2.4          2.0       1.4                     1.4      0.58         0.69
Ei    Ttal             263.4        120.2      37.4   70.3   18.2   125.9       0.48         1.05
-31 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic rate of Return
Costs in 1991 Z$)
Savings due
Cost of         Savings    to reduction
Transporting      due to    in qoerating
Projed            Rail tafc                        Rail coat/on-km       Additional      traffic not    costs for
Capital    With   Wiout  AddiAtnal  Road costl   with    without         T   c              moving    'no project"    Total
Fiscal    Cost    Project   Project    Traffic  tn-akm    Project   Project    Road      Rail     by road      traffic     cash flow
Year  (Z$ mill.)        NTKM (Million)           (ZS)      (Z$)     (ZS)   (ZS mill.) (Z$ mill.)  (Z$ mill.)   (Z$ mill.)   (Z$ mill.)
1991     36       5395     5395        0        0.1789    0.125    0.125       0         0          0            0           -36
1992     50      5643      5643        0        0.1789    0.113    0.113       0         0          0            0           -50
1993     207     5454      5454        0        0.1789    0.131    0.131       0         0          0            0          -207
1994     29      4327      4327        0        0.1789    0.107    0.107       0         0          0            0           -29
1995     10      4754      4327       427       0.1789    0.101    0.107      76         43         33           25          48
1996     10       5011     4327       684       0.1789    0.074    0.107      122        51         72          142          203
1997     17       4871     4327       544       0.1789    0.094    0.107      97         51         46           53          82
1998     115     4700      4327       373       0.1789    0.074    0.107      67         27         39          143          68
1999             4700      4327       373       0.1789    0.074    0.107      67         27         39          143          183
2000              4700     4327       373       0.1789    0.074    0.107       67        27         39           143         183
2001              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52           143         195
2002              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52           143         195
2003              4818     4328       490       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52           143         195
2004              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52          143          195
2005              4818    4327        491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52           143         195
2006              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52           143         195
2007              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52           143         195
2008              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52          143          195
2009              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52          143          195
2010              4818     4327       491       0.1789    0.074    0.107       88        36         52          143          195
NPV         579
ERR         29%
Note 1: All costs at 1991 prices
Note 2: Traffic withoutproject. ASS wned constant at 1994 level in the absence of iputs of spare
parts additional locomofive.s locomotive rehabilitation service vehicles etc.
Note 3: Unit rail coss mith Project actual until 1998, an then assumed constant
Note 4: Unitrail costs without project assumed actual until 1994 and then asawned constan
- 32-



Financial rate of Return
(Z$ milion)
Project
Capital                                              Cashflow       Cashflow      Cashflow         Net
Fiscal     Cost       Revenue    Expenditure    Depreciation      With       With Project     Without        Project
Year    (Deflated)   (Actual)     (Actual)       (Actual)       Project      (Deflated)       Project       Benefits
1991        36         566           676            19           -91            -91            -91           -36
1992        50         810           882            19           -53            -38            -38            -51
1993       207         1067         1164            24           -73            -45            -45           -207
1994        28         943          1044            33            -68            -30           -30            -28
1995        10         1082         1136            39            -15            -6            -30            13
1996        10         1268         1456            38           -150           -38            -30            -18
1997        17         1624         1808            37           -147           -37            -30            -25
1998       115         2395         3314            52           -867           -90            -30           -176
1999                   3780         3600            52            232            23            -30            53
2000                   3780         3600            52            232            23            -30            53
2001                   3875         3060            52            867            87            -30            117
2002                   3971         3060            52            963            97            -30            127
2003                   4011         3060            52            1003           101           -30            131
2004                   4051         3060            52            1043           105           -30            135
2005                   4092         3060            52            1084           109           -30            139
2006                   4133         3060            52            1125           113           -30            143
2007                   4174         3060            52            1166           118           -30            148
2008                   4216         3060            52            1208           122           -30            152
2009                   4258         3060            52            1250           126           -30            156
2010                   4300         3060            52            1292           130           -30            160
FRR           10%
Sources of Data:
Until 1998: NRZ's annual statements.
For 1999: Projected on the basis ofJanuwy-September data.
For 2000: Same asfor 1999.
For 2001 and 2002: 2.5% annual growthfor revenue; 15% reduction in expenditurefor 2001 and then constant.
2003 onwards: 1%annualgrowlhfor revenue and expenditure constant.
Defiated costs/cashflows calculated on basis of 1991 prices.
-33 -



RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
ACTUALS
(Z $ MILLION)
Year                    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   19961  1997   1998  1999*
Capital                                         -23    -107    -91   -126    -126   -129   -129    -129
Loans                                   526    571    719    897    961    916    936    940    940
Overdraft                               134      76      30      65      46      93     150    223    223
Capital Employed                        660    624    642    871    881    883    957   1034   1034
Net Deficit                             428      37      72      33    256   -252   -185   -793
Interest                                 56      61    143    103    113    141         176    502
Exchange losses                          24     148      57      40      32      31      35    109
Interest/Dividend
Ex unitary System                         0    -168   -220   -168   -245    -63           0    -212
Surplus/(Defict)                        508      78      52       8    156   -143        26   -394    180
Exchange Rate (US$I =Z$)                3.78    5.23    6.15    8.55    8.95   14.85   12.75   36.25    37.5
Surplus/(Defict) in US$ million         134      15      8.6    1.2      17    -9.6    2.2    -11       4.8
Rate of Return                           77      13       8       1      18    -16        3     -38      17
* Figures for 1999 are estimates.
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Ccle               No of Persons and Speck-l-y  Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMSet)       Implementationr     Deveopment
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         4   RE, FA, OA, EC
Jul-89
Appraisal/Negotiation
Nov-89                   4   RE, FA, OA, EC
Supervision
May-91                   I  RE                                   HS                 HS
Aug-91                   2  RE, FA                                S                  S
Jun-92                   1  RE                                    S                  S
Feb-93                   I  RE                                    S                  S
Jul-93                   1  RE                                    S                  s
Dec-93                   1  RE                                    S                  S
Oct-94                   2  RE, FA                                S                  S
May-95                   I  RE                                    S                  S
Jul-95                   I  RE                                    S                  S
Jul-96                   I  RE                                    S                  S
Apr-97                   3  RE,EC,TP                              S                  S
Oct-97                   2  RE, TP                                S                 S
Jan-98                   I  RE                                    S                  s
Apr-98                   1  RE, TE                                S                  S
Oct-98                   1  RE                                    S                  S
ICR
Feb-99                  2   RE,TE                                 S                  S
EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; OA   Operations Analyst; RE = Railway Engineer; TE =
Transport Economist; TP = Transport Planner
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
-_________ _  No. Staffweeks            US$ (,)OO)
Identification/Preparation               44.9                         87.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    58.8                        129.9
Supervision                             122.5                        343.3
ICR                                       8.5                         12.7
Total                                   234.7                        573.6
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
N Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
( Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
C0 Other (Please specify)
E Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 36-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
L Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU   OHU
El Overall                                          OHS OS  0 U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS OS   OU   OHU
O Government implementation performance             O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Zimbabwe Second Railways Project, Staff Appraisal Report, November 9, 1990, The World
Bank.
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on an Proposed Loan of US$38.6
Million Equivalent to Zimbabwe for a Second Railways Project, November 9, 1990, The
World Bank.
3. Loan Number 3273 ZIM, Loan Agreement between Zimbabwe and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, January 15, 1991, The World Bank.
4. Zimbabwe Second Railways Project, Amendment to the Loan and Project Agreements,
February 28, 1997, The World Bank.
5. Zimbabwe Second Railways Project, Supervision Reports including Impementation Summaries
(Forms 590) or Project Status Reports (PSR) from April-May 1991 to February 1999, The
World Bank.
6. Zimbabwe Railways Restructuring Project, Project Concept Document, December 28, 1998,
The World Bank.
7. National Railways of Zimbabwe, Annual Reports from 1991 to 1998, National Railways of
Zimbabwe.
- 38 -



IBRD 22111 R
a aa          oGDEi. REP. ,      aAp4NIA                                     28                                          30'                                       32-
OF C NGO~                                                                                                                      lake Caboto Bass,y                          8 
ANGIOLA                                  *N                                                                                                                     --
Lu50kvr in   -7 16-   d          /                 CCgab                           i Anao                      MOZAMBIQUE
K- \,,_< ar        BIQUE ,
\gIBIA   ] BC)TSWAN> /   i  tNplAtv   Z  A   M    B   I A                                                   /                                                           T -B
NAntIBIA             A>              C                                                                      a,   b .'ntyna
r'k    ,        7       \ A ' : TW:  AI n  N                               .N                  E               /  ,                         a                  7
NQFH                             -.          9           DeL ,.                                                                        N                    '.1a ,  7   !     nn    *~        a-'eF!
ATUANTf(>/                      aaa                                          ~I~    ao 
OCEAN          _'a                                                                 f'                                                n        nn~j                                     ,naaa
2 k -<e ,4. .,. . Sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~cw' cl                                                       Li--\t-<> ,:/<<   yzr     D..Z
SU  A                                    S RAILWAYS  r       N                 L  D                                iRtd\ir
T. Cas13                                 <     i                                         ht;                                     S 0        V
TRANSPORT NETWORK                   1              ;    (, i  fr<   -QL >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t   --) na                                   ajN|_   
MAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                    AIRPRT >8                                                                a  ~k    .  9 .   e,
Thnn26                       7-.N
H-g.Kad-raRa                                                                                                              d         Nag-
fiF ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~' NATINALCPITA          \                                                                ~~' 5\rannn                             Nd I \8'%   /<'~m~/     ^
- 22'   -'-'  INTERNATIO~~NAL BONARE                                              '                                                                                          a. .,         'K..d5 /5,\     =  eiUtflr eoi=i
B O T S WA N A     ,               p ,)>    __  __~~ <                N>               NheWardBnkGu,n/   udm
O ~ ~~ ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10- 200 KILMEER                          ,?   Shen RangH7AF        A                    O       e                         0 plu  bunnre
20_ ZIMBABWE    _                                                                                                                                     a                                     N32001
RAILWAYS II PROJECT- ICR                                                                                                                                                        nga$0 
TRANSPORT NETWORK                                                         ana          N                                aaa-aN,~K <
RAILWAYS                                       T)FnFr-cta,  
-  RIVERS                                                                                                                                   Wn/--> /
MAJOR STATE ROADS                                                                              ,ala,                                          C>n -                           6
SECONDARY STATE ROADSRaea 
t     MAIN AIRPORTS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                         y    -                -
10    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                              N         I       'nnI/
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                 o /  p   io,lUe tfT nnpaapndcd  8.,k.
22'                                                                                                                                                                             Th.nap CtFPn Wad-Ba-t.
Ebid               /k{$nNalanaala  la~~~~~tin np7 .l nat iply, a- thn pant al
BOTSWANA                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The Wajd S-ak G-op, a-y j.dg-at
5             100~~~~IC          200 KILOMETERS                                              )                         "--'"                                       ntiN a,, laa of-ay' f-ritaN-YaN
26                      20'                F                  H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S U   'A F RI CA                -hhT  apl  n a-d-rannlancptnaa
26'                     28'                                                                             3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUT~N \-a~ 22' sclnnnn
FEBRUARY 2000






-   \     ! OF C     NDEM. REP.  TANZANIA                          28'                                     303 2ake Cbarrs B                        32\
ANGOLA            " --d      V        |
F ZAMBIA                                                                        i
X   r  ZAMBIA, (_7  -16'<'-                                                 L-.       -_.               MOZAMBIQUE                    16
K         H\MZIMBA   Z BBQUE                     Z A M  B I A                                                    <
NAMIBIA   BOTSWANA        2      INDIAN                                                                                   a
SOUTH                       - .                                                         M                                         a
ATLANTIC   \       L /                 N                                                    ,                                                                                                -
OCEAN                                                                               -1
SOUTH ,  SOTH                                                                                     Zawi0 1 50 218m
AFRICA                                                                                                             Kildonan            mva
K26   /   ' s?  2>               X      Maryland Ju  ctio      
NAMIBIA         ,, _                ITo Nusa aNdaola/                                                                   1 /43;2-1 m
-\Victoriao6                                                                                               90 m  M  Hampde
N.    Aj21  ~;ou,~~0~
/'  \   Junction   \                    -           /               / Sanan,-j
/       72km. Gado                                                /    -       To the part
)                                                                                         Mutare  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  of~~~~~~~~~0 Beira
' Redc'lif 
\,,              \                     /  amA,                                                          \o@? (  X~~/ 
/        ~~~~9k   Gweru  15  0 
Dab                 021
23k
ZIMBABWE                          ------                                                      a 5 6sg ;              Mv n
20' NATIONAL RAILWAYS    '-*.    \    B.. Heany Junction  \                                                                                     go                                          20
INTER-DISTANCES KMS,                                   *                lwaa          \      Bannockburn        /0;       \
RULING GRADIENTS AND CURVES                                   J                                                      Z  vane
P k  r--P lumtree                                                                                        0 \    tt)  0   \s  /    |1/80;302m
0   -6      INTER-DISTANCES
ELECTRIFIED TRACKS*
'1             1/utO;~~~~I 141m  Wet                      4z\                 Nand
;402ns RULING GRADIENTS AND CURVES              To                                             Nicholson
To Botw no ancl                                                              utngC
RIVERS                                  ports of Sou h Africa                  \Rut                                               en                                  m /02
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                             - 
0    SELECTED CITIES                                                            !                                                  bz/\              /+
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                      -               '                                                Thismcpos p-d-d bylhk
-22'       'Railways are diagrammatically represented.                                                                                                              Map De,ign Unit of The World Backn
-22,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Th. lboundaries, color, clnno,inofi-es
B O T S WA N A                                                                                          o  inomtoChicualan show.on this iaa
ea  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~\ mop do not imply, on the pear of The  ;a
>'       0                 100               200 KILOMETERS                                                Taohannesbsrg asnd,'         ~                 '~'b n  \   World BnkGroup any judgment on
z                                  26                __                  28                   the part of urbon-- -                                       the legal statves ofanesy territory oray 
s.c                                                                                                                                     e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O TFIAndorsement or acceptance of such 
0o21                                                                                 8                                     30'                                    3'boundaries.                    5.



