Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AmI 3273-ga~
Report No. 8526-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
NOVEMBER 9, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restcted dsibuton and my be used by       only In the perbrnme of
theLi oftfi,d dutes Its conts may not oterwise be discWosed Wd Ebnk audiodon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollars
Z$1.0 = US$0.43
US$1.0 = Z$2.30
(as of March 31, 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       -      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (tonnes)  -      1.023 short tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        -     African Development Bank
AGM         -    Assistant General Manager
ATIS        -     Advanced Train Information Systems
AZ          -     Air Zimbabwe
CIDA        -     Canadian International Development Agency
CMED        -     Central Mechanical Equipment Department
CTC               Centralized Traffic Control
DANIDA      -     Danish International Development Agency
DCA         -     Department of Civil Aviation
DDF         -     District Development Fund
FINNIDA     =     Finnish International Developmezt Agency
GDP         3     Gross Domestic Product
GM                General Manager
GOZ         -     Government of Zimbabwe
GIEM        -     Gross Tonne Kilometer
KEW         -     Krditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MFEPD       -     Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MIS         -    Management Information System
MLGRUD      =     Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
MOT         -     Ministry of Transport
MTC         -     Ministry of Trade and Commerce
NRZ         -     National Railways of Zimbabwe
NTKM        -     Net Tonne Kilometer
NTS         =     National Transport Study
OIP               Operations Improvement Plan
OI0         -     Operating Information System
p.a.        3     per annum
PC          -     Parastatal Commission
pc          -     personal computers
PSIP        -     Public Sector Investment Program
RDC         -     Rural District Council
RMS         -     Road Motor Services
RSA         -     Republic of South Africa
RTEC        -     Railways Traffic Estimates Committee
SADCC       -     Southern Africa Development Coordinating Committee
SAR               South African Railways
SATCC       -     Southern Africa Transport and Communications Commission
SIDA        -     Swedish International Development Agency
TAZARA      -     Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TSM               Transport Sector Memorandum
UDI         =     Unilateral Declaration of Independence
USAID       =     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABE
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SULMARY  . . . . . . . s . . . . .. . . . .      ii-iv
E.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Country Economic Context  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
B.   The Transport System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *     3
(i)    Background  ................                     3
(ii)    Railways  . .. ..   .    .    .. .. ..           4
(ii)     Roads   . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..                4
(iv)    Road Transport  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
(v)    Air Transport   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
C.   Sector Role, Organization and Performance   . .. .    .   6
D.   Government Objectives in the Sector   . . . . . . . .     7
E.   Sector Planning and Coordination  . . . . . . . . . .     8
F.   Transport Sector Investments  . . . . . . . . . . . .     8
G.  Experience with Past Lending in the Sector  . . . . .      9
H.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement  . . . . . . . .      11
II.  THE RAILWAYS
A.  Background  .    . . . . . . .  .        . .  ... .11
B.  Regulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..       1
C.  Organization, Management and Staffing   . . . . . . .      13
(i)    Organization and Management   . . . . . . .      13
(ii)    Staffing  . .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   13
D.  Physical Assets and Resources   . . . . . . . . . . .      15
(i)    Locomotives   . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . .      15
(ii)    Rolling Stock   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
(iii)    Permanent Way   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
(iv)    Signalling and Telecomunuications   . . . .      17
(v)    Information Technology and Systems  . . . .      18
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission that visited
Zimbabwe in October/November, 1989. The mission consisted of Mr. Y. Crookes
(Mission Leader/Financial Analyst), Messrs. S. Nayak (Railway Engineer),
P. Ofosu-Amaah (Senior Counsel), G. Wilson (Economist) and Ms. E. Warner
(Operations Analyst). Messrs. J. Boye-Moeller (DANIDA), V. Adelqvist (DANIDA
Consultant), G. Bethke (KIf) and F. Zobrist (USAID) participated in aspects
of the mission. Ms. H. Najar assisted in processing this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
S.  Operations    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
F.  Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     20
G.  Regulatory Reform   .................                     22
B.  Restructuring Strategy  .     .......  .                  25
I.  Restructuring Strategy* Regional Context  . . . . . .     27
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.  Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     28
B.  Genesis of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     28
C.  Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .     29
(i)    Physical Investments  . . . . . . . . . . .     30
(ii)    Organizational Restructuring  . . . . . . .     35
(iii)    Operational Restructuring   . . . . . . . .     37
(iv)    Financial Management and Restructuring  . .     38
D.  Cost Estimates and Project Financing  . . . . . . . .     39
E.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     41
P.  Procurement   . . . .    # . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43
G.  Disbursements    .................  .                     44
H.  Reporting and Monitoring  .  . ..    . .   .  . . .       45
t.  Accounting and Audit  ................                    45
J.  Environmental Impact, Industrial Health and Safety  .     46
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Historic Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . .    47
B.  Financial Restructuring Strategy and Projections  . .     47
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Traffic Forecasts                                         56
B.  Project Benefits and Costs  . . . . . . . . . . .         57
C.  Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . . .     58
D.  Electrification Component       . .  . .   . ..   . . ..  60
S.  Passenger Coaches Component   . . . . . . . . . . . .     60
F.  Project Risks   ...................                       62
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOHHTNDATIONS   . . . . . . . . .    63
ANNEXES
1        Selected Operational Statistics
2-1      Weaknesses in NRZ Operations
2-2 (a)  Comparison of Tariffs and Costs of Movement
2-2 (b)  History of Tariff Increases
3-1      Locomotive Strategy, 1989-94
3-2      Assessment of Locomotive Requirements
3-3      Wagon Requirements



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
3-4       Management and Supervisory Development Program: Draft Terms of
Reference
3-5       Locomotive Maintenance Audit: Draft Terms of Reference
3-6       Manpower Studys Draft Terms of Reference
3-7       Management Information Systems Study: Draft Terms of Reference
3-8       Operations Improvement Plan
3-8 (b)   Performance Targets
3-9       Detailed Project Cost Estimates
3-10      Disbursement Profile
3-11      Environmental and Industrial Health and Safetys
Weed Killers and Chemical Compounds in Use on NRZ
4-1       Past Financial Performance
4-2       Projected Financial Performance: Assumptions Used in Financial
Projections
4-3       Projected Financial Performance: With Project and Projected
Traffic
4-4       Projected Financial Performances With Project and Constrained
Traffic
4-5       Projected Financial Performances Without Project
4-6       Financial Rates of Return
5-1       Historic Traffic Performance
5-2       Traffic Forecasts
5-3       Economic Returns
5-4       Railways Passenger Servicess Estimated Operating Costs
6         Supervision Plan
CHARTS
1.        NRZ Organization Structure: Old
2.        NRZ Organizational Structure: New
3.        Target Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD No. 22111: Transport Network
IBRD No. 22112: Inter-Distance Rms, Ruling Gradients and Curves



ZIMBABWE
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   "Review of Corporate Planning Unit and Investment Plan" - Consultants'
Study (RITES, India), 1989.
2.   "Review of Corporate Organization and Financial Structure' - C=sultants'
Study (Coopers & Lybrand, London), 1989.
3.   Railways Traffic Estimate, 1989 (NRZ).
4.   Detailed Traffic Density Matrix (1989, 1991-1995) (Diskettes).
5.   Detailed Computation of Wagons and Locomotives Requirements (Diskettes and
Print-outs).
6.   Financial Analysis Models (Diskettes).
7.   Details of Economic Evaluation.
8.   "Diesel Locomotive Fleet Position: Maintenance Assessment and Modernization
Possibilities", F. de Dekker (May, 1988).
9.   "Position of Motive Power and Rolling Stock", J. N. Luthra (August, 1987).
10.   "Report on Computer Hardware and Application Software Appraisal", D. C.
Munro (March, 1988).
11.   'Emergency Management Assistance to National Railways of Zimbabwe", J. A.
Pinkepank (January, 1990).
12.   Zimbabwes Transport Sector Memorandum, Report No. 6760-ZIM (August 5,
1987).
13.   "National Transport Study", SWECO (April, 1985).
14.   "Railways Transport Crisis: Zimbabwe Newspaper Clippings -- November 1989"



- ii -
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Zimbabwe
Beneficiary:      National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ)
Amount:           US$38.6 million
Terms:            Bank standard variable rate, 20 year maturity including a
five-year grace period
Cofinancing:      The project will be cofinanced by Austria, DANIDA (Denmark),
FINNIDA (Finland), KfW (Germany), Switzerland and USAID.
Proiect
Description:      The proposed project would provide assistant.e to the National
Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) to implement a restructuring program
with four principal components: (a) organization restructuring;
(b)   an  operations   improvement   program;   (c)   assets
restructuring; and (d) financial restructuring. The project
consists of (i) technical assistance to support a management
and supervisory development program and introduce improved
working systems; (ii) training and secondment of staff to
overseas railways; (iii) funding of a manpower study and
studies on NRZ's management information systems and locomotive
maintenance practices; (iv) software and technical assistance
for accounting, yard information and locomotives monitoring
systems; (v) procurement of new and repowering of some existing
locomotives; (vi) replacement of over-aged or obsolete rail
and off-rail service vehicles, workshop plant and equipment
and signalling and telecommunications equipment; and (vii)
minor extension of the electrified track structure.
Justification
and Risks:        The NRZ restructuring program to be supported under the project
would lead to a significant reduction in the economic cost of
rail transport.   It would enable NRZ to meet fully the
prospective demand for rail transport thereby avoiding costly
diversion of long-distance bulk traffic to roads and reduced
output in industries wholly dependent on rail transport. The
project would also benefit Zimbabwe's landlocked neighbors
using NRZ for transit of their international trade to and from
coastal seaports as well as Mozambique, which would benefit
from NRZ's improved ability to support the rerouting of
Zimbabwe's exports through the shorter Mozambican transit



- iii -
corridors. With the regulatory changes already in place and
successful implementation of the restructuring strategy, tNRZ
will be transformed from an entity requiring large operating
subsidies from Government to one generating considerable
returns on its capital employed and capable of making a
substantial contribycion to Government revenues. The major
project risk would be that NRZ management would not be able
to realize and sustain the improvements in operating efficiency
envisaged under the project. This risk would be mitigated by
the program of technical assistance support and training and
the demonstrated commitment of Government to ensuring the
effective operation of its new framework for NRZ operations.
Estimated Costs:                     Local  Foreian   Total
(US$ Million)
New Locomotives                         --    50.0      50.0
Locomotives Repowering                 2.1     6.0       8.1
Locomotives Spare parts                 --     2.2       2.2
Wagons                                38.9    16.3      55.2
Passenger Coaches                     10.0    10.0      20.0
CTC Renewal                           2.2      4.8       7.0
Radio Equipment and PABX               0.6     1.7       2.3
Digital Transmission Link             0.1      0.9       1.0
Breakdown Crane                         --     2.5       2.5
Plant & Equipment                     0.3      5.2       5.5
Service Vehicles                       --      4.7       4.7
Electrification Extension             2.7      4.2       6.9
Overvoltage Correction Equipment      0.1      1.2       1.3
Information Systems                   0.3      1.6       1.9
Technical Assistance                  5.6    12.8       18.4
Training                              0.3      2.6       2.9
Studies                               0.6      1.1       1.7
Total Base Costs               63.8   127.8      191.6
Physical Contingencies                6.2      6.7      12.9
Price Contingencies                  31.6    27.2       58.8
TOTAL COST                       101.7   161.7      263.4
===   = =a      gag



- 1v -
Financinft Plan:
Local  Foreian   Total
(US$ Million)
Government                           91.1      63.6    154.7
NRR                                   10.6      --      10.6
IBRD                                  --       38.6     38.6
Austria                                --       1.8       1.8
DANIDA                                __        3.7      3.7
FINNIDA                               --        4.7      4.7
KfW                                    --       7.6      7.6
Switzerland                           --        2.3      2.3
USAID                                  --      39.4     39.4
Total                        101.7      161.7    263.4
Estimated Disbursement of IBRD Loan (US$ million)s
FY91     FY92     FY93      PY94     FY95      FY96     FY97
Annual              0.0      2.5       5.2      7.7      9.5       8.9      4.8
Cumulative          0.0      2.5      7.7      15.4     24.9      33.8     38.6
Economic Rate of Return:       20%
Financial Returns:             50%
Staff Anpraisal Report:        Report No. 8526-ZIM, dated November 9, 1990.
Maps:                          IBRD No. 22111
IBRD No. 22112



ZNBAB'E
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Csuntry Economic Context
1.01           Zimbabwe Is a landlocked country of about 390,000 square
kilometers bounded by Mozambique, Republic of South Africa (RSA), Botswana
and Zambia (see IBRD Map 22111). Topographically, the land rises from low
plains in the northwest and southeast to a high plateau (1,200 - 1,500
meters) which runs from the southwest to the northeast. The high country
has a temperate climate with a reasonably high level of rainfall, while the
middle regions are warmer and drier and the low areas are arid to near
arid. As of mid-1988, the population was estimated at 9.3 million people,
with an annual growth of about 3Z.
1.02           At independence in 1980, Zimbabwe inherited a well-
diversified economy, with good potential for growth and a well-developed
administrative and physical infrastructure. Agriculture, manufacturing and
mining are the most important sectors of the economy. In 1989, agriculture
accounted for about 14% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and provided
employment for over 50% of the labor force. Agricultural exports provided
approximately 45% of foreign exchange earnings. The manufacturing sector
contributed about 25% of the country's GDP and accounted for 62 of the
labor force. Although mining accounts for only 7X of GDP and employs only
2% of the labor force, its exports represent about '0% of total foreign
exchange earnings. The mining and agricultural sectors supply the bulk of
the inputs for the manufacturing sector.
1.03           Real growth of the economy in the immediate post-
independence period (1980-1981) averaged over 112 per annum (p.a.); in the
subsequent three years the GDP was virtually flat in real terms as the
international recession caught up with Zimbabwe and a severe drought
curtailed agricultural output. In 1985, GDP growth recovered to over 72
owing to excellent rains, before a renewed recession; there was virtually
no growth in 1986. Since 1987, GDP has grown at an annual average rate of
3.42. Per capita GNP in 1988 was estimated at US$660 (on the basis of the
World Bank Atlas methodology), about the same level in real terms as at
independence. Throughout this post-independence period, inflation has been
kept at moderate levels (132 p.a. on the aver,a e) and external indebtedness
has been satisfactorily managed.
1.04           There is now a well-formed consensus in Zimbabwe that
sustained performance of the economy to provide employment to the country's
growing population will require significant macroeconomic restructuring.
In particular, a framework has to be laid to allow a sustained increase in
the investment rate in industry and the diversification of agricultural
output and exports. Any such program of macroeconomic restructuring would
need to include two key objectives: (i) the reduction of the public sector
deficit, now standing at 11% of GDP, in order to free private savings,



- 2 -
currently preempted by Government borrowing, for the financing of
investment in industry; and (ii) the realignment of public investment
expenditutes to facilitate the further integration of the communal areas,
where tho majority of the country's population lives, into the mainstream
of the economy.
1.05            In meeting both objectives, restructuring of the National
Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) would be critical. Firstly, NRZ is a
significant contributor to the current high level of the public sector
deficit. In 1989, the subsidy to NRZ to cover its losses, at Z$ 120
million, accounted for about 3% of central Government recurrent
expenditures, equivalent to 1.2% of GDP. NRZ's need for subsidies arises
from a mix of inefficient utilization of its assets, use of technically
inefficient assets, inadequate pricing policies and poor management. These
issues would need to be addressed in an integrated fashion to stem and
reverse the growth in the railways' claims on Government's '%udgetary
resources. Moreover, since independence, NRZ has account 4 for Z$ 331
million or 22% of the total sector investment program.   However, these
investments have not yielded the expected returns; instead, they have been
accompanied by a sharp decline in NRZ's productivity. Without a reversal
in the decline in productivity, sharp increases in investment would be
required to maintain and increase the railways' capacity to cater to the
demand for rail transport.
1.06           Secondly, Zimbabwe's economy is characterized by a
significant degree of economic integration within the industrial sector and
between industry and agriculture. The effective performance of the
railways is a sine qua non for maintaining this integration and supporting
the performance of these sectors. Zimbabwe's railways covers almost all
the major mining, manufacturing and agricultural centers, is the most cost
effective means of transport for the primary output of the mining and
agricultural sectors, the wholesale distribution of the intermediate goods
processed from their output as well as that of the major input into the
agricultural sector, and accounts for about 90% of domestic transport
movements. Indeed, the Zimbabwean economy is amongst the most railways-
dependent in the world. The operating performance of NRZ has, however,
been deteriorsting sharply in recent years and its current inability to
satisfy the demand for rail transport is estimated conservatively to cost
annually Z$ 130 million in lost production, inventory holdings, additional
costs of traffic diversion to roads and the cost of avoidable hires and
leasing of railways assets from the RSA.
1.07           Thirdly, future growth implies improving the country's weak
export performance. This will require maintaining and improving the
competitiveness of traditional exports which are dominated by bulky
commodities of relatively low unit value while diversifying the export
base. The role of the railways is crucial in this process. The shortest
and intrinsically cheapest routes to the seaports for Zimbabwe's
traditional exports are the Mozambique railway corridors to the ports of
Beira and Maputo. As a measure of the potential for savings in resources
or improvement in export competitiveness, the use of the Mozambican routes



- 3 -
for all of Zimbabwe's sea-bound exports would have saved the Zimbabwean
economy an estimated US$65 million equivalent in transport costs (excluding
any differential in shipping costs) in 1988--virtually all of it in foreign
exchange. Only US$15 million of this potential saving was realized by
Zimbabwe in 1988 due to NRZ's inadequate capacity to cater to potential
traffic for this route and the ongoing rehabilitation of the corridors'
facilities. When the ongoirtg port and railways rehabilitation on the
Mozambique corridors is completed in the mid-1990s, the ability of Zimbabwe
to capture a large part of zhe savings by diverting traffic through
Mozambique will be almost wholly dependent on NRZ's operating
effectiveness.
1.08           The pivotal role of NRZ in facilitating the success of any
program of macroeconomic restructuring and sustained good performance of
the Zimbabwean economy is illustrated by the reaction in the Zimbabwean
press to the recent (November 1989) congestion of the railway system
contained in the project file.
B. The Transport System
(i) Background
1.09            As a landlocked country, Zimbabwe faces a serious problem
with respect to the transport of its imports and exports through
neighboring countries. The shortest rail routes to the sea are two lines
through Mozambique, but full use of these lines has been severely
handicapped by armed bandit attacks and deterioration of facilities. As a
consequence, Zimbabwe's trade has become heavily dependent upon the
relatively long and costly rail routes through RSA, the main route for this
purpose being the lines through Botswana and Beitbridge to Port Elizabeth
and Durban, RSA. Situated astride key international rail and road routes,
Zimbabwe's transport network is of vital importance to the entire southern
Africa region, particularly to Zambia, Zaire, Malawi and Botswana. The
problem of securing economical access to the sea for Zimbabwe and its
neighbors cannot be solved without a coordinated effort in developing
regional transport facilities and services. This effort has been given the
highest priority by the Southern Africa Transport and Communications
Commission (SATCC) which promotes and coordinates the development of
regional transport and communications in its nine member countries. SATCC
has concentrated particular attention on planning the rehabilitation of
railway links to the ports of Beira and Maputo in Mozambique. IDA,
together with other donors, is assisting in implementing the Beira Corridor
Transport Project (Credit 2056-MOZ).
1.10            Zimbabwe has a relatively well-developed transport
infrastructure comprisings (i) a road network of 85,783 km, of which 12,700
are paved, 43,778 km are gravel and 29,305 km are earth; (ii) a railway
system with 2,753 km of track of which 335 km are electrified; and (iii)
eight airports, three of which serve international traffic. There is a
well-developed private sector trucking industry serving both the domestic
and the southern Africa regional markets and a national airline with



- 4 -
extensive domestic and regional connections and limited connections to
Europe and Australia. Zimbabwe's transport system basically evolved to:
(i) serve the country's major mining, industrial and commercial farming
centers that were also the centers of white settlement; and (ii) provide
access to seaports for the input requirement and the output of its mining
'ndustry, as well as those of Zambia and Zaire.
(ii) Railways
1.11            Details of the railway subsector are presented in
Chapter II.
(iii) Roads
1.12            Of Zimbabwe's total road network of 85,783 km, about 18,400
km (21%) are state roads linking provincial and district centers; 22,200 km
(26%) are rural council roads serving the commercial farming areas; 39,900
km (46%) are district roads serving the communal lands and the balance (72)
are municipal roads controlled by municipalities in the eleven major urban
areas. While the length of the state and rural council roads is adequate,
the condition of some of the roads has suffered from lack of adequate
periodic maintenance owing to insufficient funding. Construction of
district roads has only been accorded a high priority since independence,
and therefore, the coverage of the network is inadequate to fully integrate
the communal areas into the country's major centers of economic activity.
The condition of these roads is also generally poor. The Bank, under the
Second Highway Project (Loan 2939-ZIM), is providing assistance to address
the backlog of maintenance on the main state road network while the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of
Germany, are, among other donors, active in assisting the Government to
upgrade and expand the district road network.
(iv) Road Transport
1.13            Zimbabwe has a trucking fleet (vehicle payload greater than
2.3 tonnes) of about 32,000 vehicles, the largest in the southern Africa
region outside of the RSA. Commercial haulage firms account for 10% to 15%
of the trucking fleet and about 102 of freight transport by road, with the
balance of the fleet and traffic accounted for by manufacturing and
commercial firms with their own trucking fleets. The commercial haulage
industry is dominated by about 15 firms using relatively large trucks.
There are more than 200 small operators with only one or a few trucks. The
industry is regulated by a system of permits granted for specific routes or
areas and for specified commodities or all goods. A few large operators
have permits covering the whole country and all commodities while the Road
Motor Services (RMS), a unit of NRZ, is exempted from permit requirements.
Rates for services offered by the private truckers are market-determined
while RMS' rates for the scheduled rural services it operates are subject
to Government approval.



1.14            The inter-urban market and the commercial farming routes
are well served by the commercial operators. However, coverage of the
communal areas is inadequate. In part, this is due to the rapid rise in
demand for trucking services as the economy of the communal areas has grown
while growth in the national trucking fleet has been constrained by a slow
rate of replacement and expansion due to inadequate allocation of foreign
exchange to the industry. Two other contributory factors have been the
poor roads In communal areas, which have discouraged entry into this market
segment by truckers with established business in other market segments, and
the permit system, which has restricted entry by new participants. In
general, as the economy diversifies, the trucking industry's importance in
the sector is likely to increase substantially. Government is conscious of
this and is currently addressing the issues constraining trucking activity
particularly in the communal areas.
(v) Air Transport
1.15            Air Zimbabwe (AZ), a parastatal, is the sole provider of
domestic scheduled passenger air transport in Zimbabwe and links Harare to
major commercial and t.urism centers in the country. Charter services,
catering largely to tourists, are provided by a few private air charter
operators. International passenger air links are provided by AZ to
regional destinttions, London and Frankfurt and, on a seat-lease basis from
the Australian carrier, Quantas, to Australia.  Zimbabwe is also served by
the regional airlines as well as eight other international airlines.
Affretair, a parastatal, provides scheduled cargo flights from Harere to
Amsterdam and London as well as charter cargo services using a fleet of two
DC-8s. The domestic industry is regulated by the Department of Civil
Aviation (DCA) under the Ministry of Transport (MOT) which is also
responsible for the management of the country's aerodromes.
1.16            AZ operates a fleet of five Boeing 707-320 Bs, three
recently acquired B737-200s, two Viscount 800s and one BAe 146-200. AZ
took delivery of a B767-200 ER in December 1989 and expects to take
delivery of a second B767 in December, 1990. AZ's effective capacity has
increased substantially since independence. However, its operating
performance has been constrained by an aged fleet, the fuel efficiency of
which is poor and the maintenance requirements high, and by a relatively
thin domestic network. The acquisition of the B737s has enabled the
airline to retire some of the older aircraft used on domestic and regional
routes and the delivery of the 8767s will enable it to retire its current
long-haul aircraft fleet which can no longer meet European noise pollution
standards. The utilization of the new aircraft Is expected to be
relatively low for some time until a denser regional and long haul route
network can be built up. The financial performance of AZ has been poor
since 1981 as a result of Government controls on its pricing and route
structure and its poor cperational cost structure. Government has recently
restructured the airline organization in an attempt to improve its
performance.



- 6 -
C. Sector Role. Organization and Performance
1.17            The modal split of traffic in Zimbabwe follows closely the
comparative cost advantage of the various modes, the competitive
characteristic of comodities and the structure of the transport network.
All major mines, heavy industrial plants and major collection points for
commercial farms enjoy easy access to the line of rail. Consistent with
this locational pattern and its cost competitive advantage for movement of
bulky commodities, the railways accounts for about 902 of domestic and
export goods traffic. The road transport industry dominates the movement
of light manufactured goods within and between urban centers, the transport
of perishable and fragile goods not suited to rail transport and has
progressively eroded the railways' small share of the inter-urban transport
for other high-value goods through better through-service. Other than for
competition in this latter segment of the transport market, road transport
industry's role in domestic transport is highly complementary to that of
the railways, providing feeder service from farms to depots with railway
sidings. For transit traffic, the railway has a captive market for traffic
originating by rail. Currently, the railways plays a complementary role to
the pipeline from Beira to Feruka by transporting oil products to Harare
and other domestJc destinations. However, due partly to the railways
growing inability to carry the pipeline's throughput, Government has
decided, in principle, to extend the pipeline from Feruka to Harare 1/ and
limit NRZ's role to distribution of fuel to destinations beyond Harare.
Air transport's role is small, though critical to business and official
travel, the international transport of Zimbabwe's expanding horticultural
exports and the movement of tourists both to and within Zimbabwe. Although
road transport is significantly more expensive than rail, it dominates
passenger transport due to its faster and more frequent service, as well as
its more extensive geographic coverage.
1.18            Responsibility for the regulation of the transport system
is vested in the Ministry of Transport (MOT). MOT also has direct planning
and implementation responsibilities for state roads and the country's
airport infrastructure, while rural and district roads are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban
Development (MLGRUD). Transport parastatals, which enjoy monopolies in
rail and air services and a sizeable presence in the commercial trucking
industry, are governed by their statute of establishment (NRZ - Railways
Act of 1973) or by their articles of incorporation (AZ). The operating and
capital budgets of these entities are subject to review by MOT, whose
Permanent Secretary is also represented on their boards. MOT also reviews
all proposals for tariff increases. A Parastatal Commission (PC) was
1/        The IFC has been approached in this respect; the economic
viability of the proposed pipeline is currently being reviewed
by the Bank as part of an ongoing Zimbabwe Integrated Energy
Strategy Evaluation.



7
established in 1987 to perform a review role over the management and
organization of parastatals, including the transport parastatals. However,
its review role over NRZ was abrogated by Government in early 1990. The PC
was dissolved in May 1990.
1.19            The operating performance of the transport sector, although
still fairly good, has deteriorated noticeably in recent years with the
increasing inability of road and rail to meet demand on a timely basis.
The major reason for the faltering sector performance has been the
inadequacy of foreign exchange allocations to allow an adequate level of
replacement of the aging capital stock and funding of spare parts for
maintenance. A related problem, pervasive in the parastatal subsector, is
the deficiency of systems to ensure the efficient use of existing assets
and resources, including scarce foreign exchange allocated.
D. Government Obiectives in the Sector
1.20            The main objectives of the Government in the transport
sector ares (i) to improve and expand the network of roads in the communal
areas and maintain the roads linking the provincial and district centers
and in the commercial areas; (ii) to reduce the country's dependence on the
longer and intrinsically more expensive RSA routes for its international
trade traffic through regional cooperation in the rehabilitation of the
Mozambique transport corridors; (iii) to reform the regulation of road
transport to improve the level of trucking services in the communal areas;
and (iv) to improve the operating and financial performance of the
transport parastatals.
1.21            The Government has undertaken extensive reviews of the best
means of effecting these objectives. In 1984, under the Bank's First
Highway Project (Loan 2282-ZIM, 1983), GOZ commissioned consultants to
undertake a National Transport Study (NTS) to recommend an integrated
national transport policy, a sector investment program and improvements in
the management of the sector.   The main recommendations of NTS were to:
(i) reform pricing policy in the sector, particularly in the railways, to
allow prices to at least cover economic costs; (ii) to shift the emphasis
in sector investments from rail to road; (iii) to give priority to
maintenance of existing assets; (iv) to relax regulatory control of
trucking to facilitate easier entry into the industry and expansion of
existing services in the communal areas; (v) to undertake a financial
restructuring of the transport parastatals; and (vi) to strengthen the
planning capacity of MOT. The recommendations were adopted by the
Government although implementation of some of them have been slow.
1.22            In 1986, the Bank prepared a Transport Sector Memorandum
((TSM) - Report No. 6760-ZIM) to explore, in greater detail, selected
issues raised by the NTS in the roads sector, the road transport industry
in the communal areas and the railways. In relation to the roads sector,
the TSM analysis focused on the appropriate balance of budgetary
allocations to road maintenance and road construction. The recommendation
of the TSM were accepted by the Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and



Development (MFEPD) and MOT, and are being implemented under the Second
Highway Project (Loan 2939-ZIM). In the railways subsector, the TSM
analyzed the causes of NRZ's increasing losses and proposed a financial
restructuring plan to eliminate NRZ's losses over a five-year period. The
recommendations of the TSM with respect to NRZ were accepted by MOT. At
the request of NRZ's Board and MOT, and as a follow-up to the TSM and NTS
analyses, consultants were engaged under the ongoing Railways Development
Project (Loan 2342-ZIM) to review NRZ's organization, operating and
financial performance and to recommend improvements in them as well as an
investment program to complement the implementation of such changes. These
consultant studies are part of the basis for the proposed project.
E. Sector Plannina and Coordination
1.23            The responsibility for overall planning and coordination in
the sector is vested in MOT. As currently organized, MOT has departments
covering the administrative and planning functions for all modes as well as
departments concerned with the implementation of construction and
maintenance activities for the state roads. Responsibility for planning
and coordination of rural and district roads resides in MLGRUD. Lack of
adequate coordination between the two ministries, particularly in the
context of the increased importance of communal roads in public policy, has
been a problem in the formulation of sector-wide plans. However, following
amalgamation of rural councils and urban councils into Rural District
Councils (RDC), responsibility {or the planning, construction and
maintenance of rural roads in the communal areas is now being addressed
adequately with funding support provided under the District Development
Fund (DDF) of the HLGRUD. MOT's capacity for road planning is also
currently being strengthened with assistance from the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA). Planning at the enterprise level in the
transport parastatals is undertaken by the individual parastatals, with all
their operating and capital plans subject to review by the respective MOT
department before approval by Government. Modal coordination in the sector
is reasonably good with relatively well developed road/rail transfer
facilities and a well-developed trade facilitation infrastructure with an
established freight forwarding and clearing industry.
F. Transport Sector Investments
1.24            The Government's transport sector investment priorities
among the subsectors are reflected in the Public Sector Investment Program
(PSIP) approved by MFEPD. The sectoral distribution of investment in the
sector since independence and for the period 1991-1993 is shown in the
table below:



- 9 -
ZIMBABWE:  Public Sector Investment Program in Transport
(Z$ million)
1981-1985         1986-1990         1991-199311
Roadskl                   180   (391)       363   (36Z)       545   (49X)
Railways                  266   (582)        65    (62)       432   (391)
Sub-total            446                428               977
AviationSl                 15    (3%)       589   (58%)       135   (121)
Total                461  (1001)       1017  (100%)      1112  (1001)
Source: Ministry of Transport
a/    Provisional.
b/    Excludes district and municipal roads.
c/    1981-85:  data available for 1983-84 and 1984-85 only.
The investment allocation in the imediate post-independence period (1981-
1985) reflected the high public policy priority accorded to the
rehabilitation of the railways and, in particular, the partial
electrification of the system. Investments in railways were sharply
reduced in the next five years whilst the program for roads investment was
expanded and Air Zimbabwe embarked on a large scale program of replacement
of its aged fleet. The pattern of allocation of investment resources to
the railways and roads sub-sectors were in line with the recommendations of
the NTS. In the aviation sector, NTS had recommended deferral of aircraft
replacement investments until after 1990. However, in view of the
increasing operational problems faced by AZ with its aged fleet of
aircraft and, in particular, the erosion of its competitiveness in
intercontinental and regional services, Government decided to advance AZ's
fleet replacement program.
1.25            The emphasis of the transport sector investment program in
the next three years is on improving the efficiency of the railways'
operations, continuing the program of upgrading of the state roads network
and upgrading the country's main international airport (Harare). The
proposed allocations, representing about 241 of the PSIP for the period
1990191 to 1992193, is considered reasonable.
G. Experience with Past Lending in the Sector
1.26            The Bank's first involvement in the transport sector of
Zimbabwe was in 1981 when it approved the Transport Rehabilitation Imports
Program Loan (Ln. 1994-ZIM, US$42 million). The project -was designed to
help stem and reverse the decline in the sector's operational capacity as



- 10 -
expeditiously as possible in order to facilitate the post-war
(independence) rehabilitation of the economy's productive sectors. The
program focussed on the priority rehabilitation spare parts and manpower
needs of NRZ and on equipment and vehicles for the Central Mechanical
Equipment Department (CMED), which was responsible for the maintenance of
MOT's vehicle and road maintenance equipment fleet. A recently completed
Program Performance Audit Report (PPAR) and PCR for the program note the
success of the roads component; the railways component of the program,
however, encountered significant implementation difficulties. The rate of
departure of skilled white staff immediately after independence was much
greater than anticipated. This undermined the rehabilitation strategy of
the program which was necessarily skilled-manpower intensive and prompted
Government to (a) request a greater allocation of the program's funding for
technical assistance to protect the on-going viability of NRZ's locomotive
maintenance facilities while its new intake of apprentices were undergoing
training; and (b) approve the procurement of 61 new locomotives with
financing from other sources. These measures proved adequate to prevent
rail transport from becoming a major constraint on the post-war recovery of
the economy but did not prevent a substantial underlying deterioration in
the railways' operating performance. Indeed, as the draft notes, the
infusion of a substantial number of new locomotives in the absence of any
growth in traffic contributed to the reduction in pressure on NRZ to
utilize its assets effectively. The departure of staff also reduced the
effectiveness of procurement in the early years of the program. Overall,
the program, designed to be quick-disbursing, took more than twice as long
to implement as originally anticipated (six years actual versus two and a
half years estimated at appraisal). Also, a key policy objective of the
program was to provide the basis for addressing the large deficits of the
railways. Although as an interim measure, Government approved tariff
increases that enabled NRZ to cover its cash operating costs in the early
years of program implementation, the study designed to p.ovide the basis
for a strategy for a permanent solution to NRZ's loss-making operations was
unsatisfactory. No follow-on action was taken on the issue and subsidies
to NRZ have continued to increase. This project builds on the experience
with the Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program and addresses both
systemic weaknesses in operations and the institutional framework that is
needed to ensure adequate pressure on NRZ to utilize its assets effectively
and the elimination of the need for subsidies.
1.27            In 1983, the Bank approved the Railway Development Project
(Ln. 2342-ZIM, US$40 million) which provided assistance for the
continuation of technical assistance contracts entered into under Loan
1994-ZIM, the procurement of spare parts and training of NRZ staff. The
implementation of the project was slower than anticipated. The loan was
closed in June 1990 after several extensions at the request of the
Government. A PCR for the project is currently under preparation.
1.28            In the roads subsector, the First Highway Project (Loan
2282-ZIM, US$26.4 million) was approved in 1983. The project included
construction of new roads, assistance for training of MOT staff, road
feasibility studies and detailed engineering. The project also included a
national transport study (para 1.21) and a national feeder roads study.
The project was completed in January 1989, 27 months behind schedule. The
study components were also satisfactorily completed and accepted by



- 11 -
Government and formed the basis for the ongoing Second Highway Project
(Loan 2939-ZIM).
H. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.29            The Bank, through its sector work and the ongoing Railways
Development Project, has been instrumental in assisting Government and NRZ
in mapping out a coherent framework for the operational and financial
restructuring of NRZ. This work is consistent with one of the key
objectives of the Bank's strategy in Zimbabwe, which is to support
Government in its effort to restructure the economy to foster growth with
sustainable internal and external balances. The comprehensive
restructuring of NRZ's operations, assets, orgnnisation, and financial
structure to be supported under the project will help eliminate its losses
and turn it, over a period of time, into a highly profitable organisation
capable of making significant contributions to Government revenues. The
project would also improve NRZ's capacity to provide an adequate level of
transport services to Zimbabwe's productive sectors--a weakness which is a
major source of substantial economic losses to the economy. Bank
involvement in the project, primarily as catalyst for change, is essential
to ensure successful implementation of the proposed restructuring, and for
mobilizing donor assistance.
II. THE RAILWAYS
A. Background
2.01            The mainline network of NRZ was built between 1897 and 1904
to Link Harare and Bulawayo to each other, to newly developed coal fields
in Hwange in the northwestern part of the country and to the seaports of
Beira and Cape Town. The mainline was extended into Northern Rhodesia (now
Zambia) in 1907 following the discovery of lead, zinc and copper deposits
in the central part of that country. Subsequent additions to the system
focussed on extending the branch line network to connect areas of
agricultural and mining potential to the mainline network. In the early
1950s, the mainline network was extended to the southeastern border town of
Chicualacuala to connect to the southern railway network in Mozambique and
provide access to the port of Maputo for the country's expanding
international trade.   In 1974, the mainline was further extended from
Rutenga to Beitbridge on the border with RSA to provide a shorter,
alternative connection to the RSA railways network following increasing
disruptions to operations on the Beira line by Zimbabwean freedom fighters
and the total closure of the route on the independence of Mozambique.
B. Regulation
2.02            Because of its strategic role in the economy, NRZ has
always been subject to direct Government control. Its management and



- 12 -
operations are governed by the National Railways of Zimbabwe Act of 1973.
The Act specifies the objectives of the railway, its powers to achieve
these objectives and the extent to which these powers can be circumscribed
by prior Government approval or by ministerial directives. Under the Act,
NRZ's key objectives are: (i) to provide an efficient system of public
transport of goods and passengers by rail and, if it considers it
necessary, by other modes; and (ii) to be sufficiently cash generative in
providing such services to be able to cover its operating costs and debt
service obligations. The rates and charges for services rendered by NRZ
are subject to the approval of the Minister of Transport who also has to
approve proposed investments and disinvestments by NRZ. The Act also
provides for unconditional and global Government financial support of NRZ
operations to cover its cash flow deficits from operations as well as for
specific subventions to cover any losses incurred by the railways from
investments undertaken at the directive of Government. In addition to the
specific provisions of the Act, NRZ operations are also subject to the
country's macroeconomic management conditions, particularly the systems for
allocation of foreign exchange and the application of incomes policies to
control inflation.
2.03            At independence, the new Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ)
inherited a railways system that was well developed in terms of geographic
coverage but suffered from a number of significant structural weaknesses.
This set the tone for its regulation of NRZ. Firstly, in the period of
unilateral declaration of independence (UDI) by the white minority regime,
the railways' access to foreign markets for replacement of its capital
stock and for spare parts was severely limited by international economic
sanctions whilst routine maintenance of the infrastructure was increasingly
deferred as more resources were diverted in pursuit of the war against
majority rule.   NRZ was thus saddled with a highly heterogeneous fleet
with a significant number of units overdue for replacement. Secondly,
because of the labor intensity of railways operations before the advent of
dieselization and the vast array of skills required, the railways rapidly
developed into the largest single employer in Zimbabwe, particularly of
skilled artisans, as the network and traffic expanded. An important policy
of the pre-independence regime was the reservation of skilled and semi-
skilled positions and access to training for such positions primarily for
the white labor force. Many of the white skilled artisans and managerial
staff left the railways shortly before and after independence putting the
operating viability of the system critically at risk. Finally, the tariff
structure, which emphasized sub-economic tariffs for the bulky railways-
dependent traffic insufficiently cross-subsidized by high-valued goods
traffic, deepened the railways' reliance on Government subsidies for its
financial viability. The pervasive Government regulation and direct
involvement in managerial activities, which have prevailed throughout most
of the post-independence era, have fostered a culture in NRZ where
commercial orientation is no longer a primary function of the entity. The
effects of these weaknesses on NRZ are discussed in the following sections.



- 13 -
C.  Organization, Management and Staffing
(i) Organization and Management
2.04            NRZ's organizational structure throughout the post-
independence period is illustrated in Chart 1. The key features of this
organizational structure have been (a) an emphasis on functional reporting
lines with all key operating staff in the field reporting along functional
lines to an area functional head who in turn reports to the Assistant
General Manager (AGM) for a specific group of functions at headquarters;
(b) coordination of different operating activities at the General Manager
(GM) and AGI level at headquarters with limited coordination of the highly
interdependent day-to-day operating activities in the field; (c)
commingling of managerial responsibility for NRZ's trucking operations with
that for railways traffic planning and management.
2.05            This structure contained a number of critical weaknesses.
Firstly, the effectiveness of coordination at the AGM level was severely
limited by the background of the AGMs who have little general management
training and are generally conversant with the requirements of only one
discipline in their portfolio of functions. Secondly, limited coordination
at the area level, where operating decisions have their greatest impact,
inhibited the organization's ability to respond speedily to problems.
Further, area organizations for the different functions were not
geographically coterminous, rendering the little cross-functional co-
operation at the area level difficult to manage. Thirdly, lack of
functional co-ordination at the operational level was reflected in
deficiencies in planning procedures which are centered on -he needs of
individual functional areas rather than on corporate-wide analyses of
requirements and priorities. Under these conditions, investment decisions
have tended to be technically-driven rather than justified on economic and
financial criteria, and operating budgets have been driven by resource-
needs based on established and often inefficient departmental operating
practices rather than being informed by a corporate-wide commercial
objective and cost-effectiveness in operations. Finally, the trucking
operations derived little benefit from reporting to an AGff preoccupied with
NRZ's dominant railways activities. RMS is managerially self-sufficient,
enjoys a low degree of service complementarity with the railways and
operates in a competitive environment significantly different from that of
the railways. The regulatory system has provided little incentive to
change this structure. The system of global and unconditional subsidies,
by ensuring that all of NRZ's costs will be financed irrespective of its
operating efficiency, provides no incentive for NRZ to restructure itself
to be cost effective.
(ii) Staffing
2.06            At the management level, NRZ has a reasonably large number
of staff that are well-trained in their respective functional disciplines.
However, most have limited experience in their jobs and little or no
training in general management, in planning and control techniques in their



_ 14 _
fields and little knowledge of the integration of their disciplines with
the railways' other disciplines. This is partly a legacy of the
discontinuation, shortly after independence, of a system of rotational
training for entrants identified as having management potential. Below the
middle management level, tne quality of NRZ staff is also good, although
the general degree of experience is low.
2.07            Three major areas of concerns in the staffing of NRZ are:
(i) the efficiency of the procedures for selection of management staff;
(ii) the levels and structure of remuneration; and (iii) the numbers and
profile of skilled and professional staff. Staff Selection: Promotional
policy and the selection of management are, by tne Railways Act, the
responsibility of NRZ's management and Board. However, Government
interference in staffing, particularly in the early years of independence,
has been extensive. The original rationale for interference was to correct
the distortion in the racial composition of the management of NRZ arising
from the pre-independence history of job reservation. However, the pursuit
of this policy, which for an extended period required Government
ratification of most appointments, resulted in prolonged delays in
appointments, proliferation of managers in acting positions and the
selection of poor managers. It has also significantly inhibited the
freedom of NRZ's management to deploy staff in line with their capabilities
as both senior managers and the Board are uncertain of the limits of their
authority with respect to personnel matters. This managerial reticence on
staff selection has continued despite the cessation of an active policy of
interference by Government in NRZ personnel selection. Remuneration
Policy: because of NRZ's visibility in the economy, Government's
application of incomes policies designed to counter inflation has been more
stringent in NRZ than in either the smaller parastatals or the private
sector. This has led to the progressive erosion of wages for key workers
both in absolute and relative terms. As a result, NRZ is experiencing both
an increasing turnover of middle management and skilled staff whose
experience cannot be easily replaced, and considerable difficulties in
recruiting graduate and professional level staff. Staffing levels: NRZ's
staff productivity is excellent by developing country railways standards.
Nonetheless, consultants who have undertaken a review of its organization
have concluded that the current permanent staffing complement is at least
about 16% larger than warranted given the scope for improvements in
operating efficiency. This confirms the findings of an internal study of
staffing carried out by NRZ itself in 1986. The occupational profile of
staff is highly unfavorable with significant surpluses in areas where the
need for labor-intensive operations has been or could be reduced by
improvements in working systems and changed technology, and shortages in a
few areas critical for efficient railways operations. Significantly, the
one serious attempt NRZ has made to reduce staff was in 1987 when
Government attempted to put a ceiling on the level of subsidies by severely
curtailing NRZ's access to short term debt guaranteed by Government.



- 15 -
D. Physical Assets and Resources
(i) Locomotives
2.08            The NRZ motive power fleet consists of 30 electric, 80
steam and 285 diesel locomotives (as of late 1989). The 30 Co-Co electric
locomotives, acquired in 1984, are of 2400KW rating operating at 25KV,
50Hz, single phase, and were built by a domestic firm with equipment and
parts supplied by European firms. The steam locomotives, acquired between
1949 and 1957, are of the articulated "Garratt" type, and are based at
Thompson Junction and Mpopoma (Bulawayo). Steam operations are confined to
the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls sect'Jn where they have been progressively
supplemented by diesel locomotives as the density of traffic on this
section has increased and the steam locomotives' haul capacity has been
derated due to boiler efficiency problems. Diesel locomotives, accounting
for over 70% of engine-kilometers performed by NRZ, form the backbone of
the motive power on the system. The diesel locomotive fleet is highly
heterogeneous with as many as 13 different classes of different makes
(Annex 3-1). This diversity of the diesel locomotive fleet is a legacy of
the UDI days when, owing to sanctions, the options for standardization were
severely restricted by NRZ's limited access to suppliers. Currently, out
of a total of 285 locomotives in the diesel locomotive fleet, only 188 are
serviceable.
2.09            The trend of locomotive availability (defined as the
proportion of the serviceable fleet available for traffic operations) on
the system has been as followst
Availability of Serviceable Locomotives
(%)
Type of Locomotive       1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Electric                  -    64.0   55.6   55.4   67.2   73.0   74.2
Steam                  46.6   41.6   38.6   42.0   42.1   40.0   37.5
Diesel                 68.8   70.3   67.5   62.9   54.9   53.0   51.6
The trend of availability of the steam locomotives has been reasonable
given the aging of the fleet. All spare parts for this fleet are
manufactured or refurbished locally. The availability of the electric
locomotives has not been a serious concern. The availability of the diesel
locomotive fleet has deteriorated progressively in the last ten years; with
the main underlying cause being the multiplicity of types and makes. Many
of the classes of diesel locomotives have proved to be prone to problems
and failures and need intensive maintenance. The diverse fleet requires
good maintenance planning, an extended spectrum of technical skills and
adequate spare parts inventory to ensure its adequate maintenance. The NRZ
maintenance organization has been deficient in all three respects. Until
recently, no system of planning for the maintenance of the fleet and the
manpower and spare parts requirements for such work has been in use. The
rapid loss of skilled and experienced staff after independence and the



- 16 -
rapid turnover of staff trained by NRZ have undermined NRZ's ability vo
deploy the wide array of skilled staff necessary to maintain the diverse
fleet. This has been exacerbated by NRZ's inventory management system
which became increasingly deficient through the 19809 as a vehicle for
ensuring that the maintenance departments have the right volume of the
right type of spare parts at the right time. Finally, with the closing in
1986 of Loan 1944-ZIM which had provided most of NRZ's foreign currency
needs for spare parts, NRZ became fully subject to the domestic rationing
of foreign exchange. Although the use of allocated resources was highly
inefficient, its increasingly severe rationing compounded NRZ's problems in
ensuring an adequate supply of inputs to maintain an acceptable level of
availability of its diesel locomotive fleet.
(ii) Rolling Stock
2.10            Wagons:  At the request of the Bank, NRZ undertook, for the
first time, a physical census of its wagon fleet in December 1989 to
ascertain the number and condition of the wagons in the fleet. The census
results indicate that the total stock of NRZ's serviceable wagons is 12147
units distributed across wagon types as follows:
Open         Open     Tank Cars   Tank Cars    Others   Total
Hiahsided  Dropsided  (P.O.L.) 2/  (Others)
7,012      1,179       674          186        3096*   12,147
i including 600 wagons owned by ZISCO, the parastatal steel company, but
operated by NRZ.
About S1% (358u) of the fleet of highsided will be life-expired on a
chronological basis (i.e over 40 years old) by the end of the decade. Of
the other types of wagons, about 68 Z of the fleet of livestock wagons, 36%
of the tank car fleet and all of the fleet of specialized explosives wagons
will be life-expired by the end of the decade. The availability of freight
stock has been reported to be consistently over 902. However, this is an
unreliable figure in the absence in the past of knowledge of the actual
stock of own wagons on the system and the numbers of serviceable, fit and
sick wagons in this stock. Passenger Coaches: NRZ has a stock of 322
coaches for passenger services of which 170 will reach the end of their
accounting lives (40 years) between 1991 and 1995 and a further 63 coaches
between 1996 and 2000.
2.11            Given the absence of an incentive to be cost effective in
the acquisition and use of assets, NRZ has historically taken the simple
accounting lives rather than the condition of its assets as a basis for
programming investment requirements and has been planning for a sizeable
wagons and coaches replacement investment progrom over the last three years
on this basis. No account had been taken of (a) the scope for reducing the
number of wagons that would need to be replaced through more efficient use
2g/       Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants.



- 17 -
of wagons in operations and improved design of wagons or lengthening the
lives of wagons through improved maintenance practices; or (b) the
condition or likely condition of the assets programmed to be replaced.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and NRZ on a
more rigorous basis for future investment appraisals.
(iii) Permanent Way
2.12            The track on NRZ is laid to a 1067 mm gauge, the standard
gauge for southern Africa, used, besides NRZ, by the railways systems in
Zambia, Zaire, Mozambique, Botswana, Angola, Swaziland, TAZARA and RSA in
an inter-connected regional system. The mainline sections are laid mostly
with 54 kglm and 45 kglm rail on steel sleepers.  Details of basic track
standards are shown in IBRD MaP 22112. On the Harare-Bulawayo sections,
which has the heaviest density of traffic and includes the electrified
section between Harare and Dabuka, curves are 400 m and over in radius (i.e
not too sharp) and ruling grades are 1.25X or less. The Bulawayo-Victoria
Falls section has curves with radii of up to 240 m and a ruling gradient of
1.0. The Harare-Mutare section has curves with radii of up to 200 m and a
ruling gradient of 2.0%. Mainline axle-loads are generally 18.6 tonnes.
The condition of the track is good by international standards. The
maintenance organization for permanent way is soundly structured and
staffing in middle and lower grades is good and well-experienced. Senior
level management staff is well qualified but, with the resignation or
retirement of the older staff, is relatively inexperienced. Maintenance
systems are functioning effectively and maintenance work is programmed
systematically. No major works on the track are needed in the next few
yeara and surplus maintenance staff are being deployed currently on
contract track rehabilitation work in Mozambique.
(iv) Signalling and Telecommunications
2.13            The main telecommunications system is digital ultra high
frequency (microwave) based, and is in good condition. The Harare-Mutare
section has recently been provided with an optical fibre-based system, but
the telephone exchange at Harare is obsolete and maintenance spares are
currently obtained mainly from discarded exchanges of the same make and
vintage through the original supplier. Signalling and block working is
with a Centralized Traffic Control (CTC) system on the main lines, while
the branch lines are worked with a facsimile paper order system. The CTC
supervision equipment on the Harare-Mutare section is of mid-1950s vintage,
is unreliable and increasingly difficult to maintain. A significant
proportion of locomotive radios and portable radios used for the control of
operations need replacement due to their age and unreliable condition.
Personnel turnover and NRZ's inability to recruit staff is a severe problem
in this department and has resulted in about 50X of the management
positions being vacant currently.



- 18 -
(v) Information Technology and Systems
2.14            The bulk of NRZ's d-ta processing is undertaken on an off-
line batch basis on a mainframe c>):puter (NCR 8565M) with two megabytes
(mb) of main memory. The computer is about ten years old, obsolete and
prone to failure. The supporting peripheral equipment--tape decks and
drives, card reader, terminals and pr1iters--are equally obsolete and prone
to failure and were mostly transferred from an earlier system. Most of the
systems run on the mainframe were inherited from pre-independence days and
are written in NEAT/3 - an obsolete, low-level programming language not
supported by any other mainframe make or subsequent generations of the same
make. NEAT/3 is understood by few systems professionals; in addition, most
of NRZ's systems were poorly documented. As a result, maintenance of the
existing 40 or so systems which run on the mainframe is difficult and
systems upgrading to add desired features has been impossible. NRZ is
currently in the process of replacing this computer system with a new one
capable of supporting a universal programming language (COBOL) and with
four mb of upgradable memory with financing provided by the Bank under Loan
2342-ZIM. Two minicomputers (Perkin Elmers), with two megabytes of main
memory each, supported by a complex of 29 terminals distributed around the
railways for on-line data entry, are dedicated to running NRZ's train
dispatch information system (Advance Train Information System or ATIS) with
subsidiary data analysis based on its primary output undertaken on the
mainframe. The use of personal computers (pCs) is limited, with the six
pes available throughout the organization concentrated in the accounting
department.
2.15            Processing on the mainframe is mostly devoted to routine
processing of accounting, traffic data and payroll. The main computerized
accounting systems are the revenue and expenditure accounting systems and
the asset register. The general ledger is maintained on a pc. Most
significant financial analytical tasks based on data output from the main-
frame are undertaken manually. Timeliness of routine processing of
accounts is acceptable, but considerably impeded by the degree of manual
data entry and associated data verification processes. Traffic statistics
are generated as a subroutine of the revenue accounting system. Train
performance data and wagon hire and utilization data are processed on the
mainframe from data generated from the train dispatch system. The supplies
management system generates listings of requisitions fulfilled, updated
stock listings and stock holding positions relative to assigned buffer
levels. The system is clerical labor-intensive for input. Subsidiary
analysis on its output and the tracking of orders placed has to be
undertaken manually. Updating the payroll system has been difficult and
any analysis of payroll data has to be generated manually. Priority for
processing is assigned to payroll and accounting data. Traffic and other
operational data are subject to considerable delays. The usefulness of
NRZ's extensive data generation for management decision-making is limited
due to the primary nature of much of it and the required effort to analyze
it. Also, there is little appreciation of the extent to which decision
making can be enhanced through the tapping of the wealth of data currently
generated on all aspects of NRZ operations.



- 19 -
E. Operations
2.16            The salient features of NRZ's operating performance in the
last four years and the four years immediately preceding and following
Zimbabwe's independence are presented in the table below:
ZIMBABWE: NRZ's Operatino Performance
Net tonnes          Productivity
carried
Year       Diesel locos  Average no.    (million      Train engine km/  Wason km
In use     wagons on NRZ    tonnes)      day/loco In use  per wagon
1978           129.2         18043        11.95          858            59
1979           128.1         18S08        12.29          851           6S
1980           185.0         13695        18.80          as8           62
1981           127.6         18888        18.91          854            68
1985           164.2         18916        18.60          28c            55
1986           148.8         14457        14.04          262            St
1987           122.8         14042        13.90          248            49
1988            102.4        18255        18.68          245            48
Source: NRZ statistics
The striking feature of NRI's operating performance is the sharp decline in
productivity in the post-independence period. Locomotive utilization
averaged 354 train engine km per available locomotive in use per day
(equivalent to about 420 engine km) in the pre-independence period but
declined sharply after 1984 and has averaged only 246 km (equivalent to 290
engine km) in the last four years. The pronounced decline in productivity
is a result of a number of factors. Firstly, many systems of operations
and operating practices inherited from the pre-independence period are
inherently inefficient and have not been modernized (Annex 2-1). For
example, block train operations that allow better utilization of assets
account for only 151 of total freight traffic although about 60% of the
traffic carried by NRZ is suited to such operating practice. Operationally
irrelevant crew rostering tied to rigid timetables are still in use,
leading to the running of less trains than is possible. Assignment of
motive power to sections of track still follow patterns established in the
pre-independence period and lead to the need for numerous adjustments of
train loads to match motive power to sectional track characteristics. Yet,
the change in the composition of the fleet since independence and more
efficient train formation practices would permit the establishment of
uniform load requirements across the system thereby avoiding the delays and
detentions inherent in numerous load changes. Secondly, detailed
management, monitoring and control of operations has weakened considerably
since independence. NRZ collects detailed statistics on all key aspects of
its operations and these have shown the deteriorating trend in assets
utilization. However, systematic management action to address weaknesses
have never been prompted by the statistics collected for a variety of
reasons. Formal performance objectives for key departments are not a
feature of NRZ's management system and systematic reviews of performance



- 20 -
other than on day-to-day operations (which inevitably are crisis-oriented)
do not take place. More importantly, much of NRZ's middle and senior
management staff are relatively inexperienced and have been inducted into a
system that functioned on informal management control procedures only at
the start of a period when most of the experienced and cohesive staff that
are necessary for the effective functioning of such a system had left or
were leaving. Finally, there has been little effective pressure from NRZ's
Board or Government for more effective utilization of assets; relatively
easy access to national resources for new or hired operational assets
throughout much of the post-independence period made it possible for NRZ to
avoid required changes in the management of operations.
F. Financial Performance
2.17            A summary of NRZ's financial performance since independence
is provided in the table below and detailed in Annex 4-1.
ZIMBABWE: NRZ2s Recent Finencital Performance
(Zs millions)
1981/82
-19683/4!'  1904/86  198s/88  196,/67  1987/88  1988/89
Revenues                    --        20S.1    242.2   249.5    261.0    269.4
Operating Costs             --        221.8    274.4    269.6    304.0    888.7
Operating IncomoeW          (60.6)    (21.7)   (36.0)   (58.2)   (47.7)   (69.6)
Free Cash Flow
from Operations!'         (56.1)     (10.7)   (26.?)   (12.4)   (86.2)   (82.7)
Debt Service               (97.4)     (50.2)   (72.8)   (78.6)   (79.9)   (79.1)
Financing RequirementV/:   163.6       60.9    101.8     85.9    116.1   111.8
Government Support:
Subsidies Paid            91.7       81.8    60.0    80.0   100.0    120.0
Increse In Overdraft
Guarantees               52.1      16.6     19.0     10.8     20.8     -
Total Government Support'-   148.8     49.9    79.0    90.8    120.8    120.9
Notes:
a/        Cumulative.
Includes net rental income.
sf        Operating Income plus d6prectation plus net Investment In operating working
capital.
Free cash flwo plu debt servIce;
Difference In t-iiT Government support and financing requirement reflect NRZ draw
down of Its own cash belances or deferral of debt service payments or Government
long-term debt financing of track renewal expenditures charged to profit and loss.
Source: NRZ accounts.



- 21 -
2.18           As the table shows, NRZ's financial performance has been
poor. NRZ incurred operating losses in each of the five years to June
1989. Cash generation has been correspondingly poor with the cumulative
cash drain from operating activities amounting to Z$ 120.7 million over
those five years. Preliminary results for 1989/90 show an operating loss
of ZS 130.4 million and cash outflow from operations of Z$ 34.8 million.
Since independence, the cumulative cash drain from operating activities has
amounted to an estimated Z$ 212 million. This cash outflow from operating
activities compares to cumulative debt service obligations of Z$ 535
million since independence. Thus, since independence, NRZ has had a total
external financing requirement of Z$ 747 million to stay financially
solvent. This requirement has been provided by Government in the form of
cumulative budgetary appropriations of Z$ 583 million, guarantees of short
term indebtedness of Z$ 154 million, long term loans to finance essentially
recurrent track renewal expenditures and deferrals of debt service
payments. In addition, Government has on several occasions capitalized
deh't or assumed the foreign exchange risk on external direct loans to ease
NRZ's debt service burden. With this post-independence history of negative
performance and cash hemorrhage, NRZ is now close to bankruptcy with total
debt equal to about 100% of capital employed.
2.19           The underlying reasons for this poor financial performance
have been: (i) an inappropriate institutional framework (embodied in the
National Railways of Zimbabwe Act 1973) governing NRZ; (ii) inadequate
tariffs in relation to direct operating costs and NRZ's asset base; (iii)
high fixed costs in relation to NRZ's asset base; and (iv) poor capital
expenditure screening procedures and inappropriate debt financing of a
substantial proportion of NRZ's recent capital expenditure program.
2.20           Institutional Frameworks  By statute, NRZ enjoys
unconditional Government support for its overall cash flow shortfall even
though it has clearly defined obligations in the same statutes to be
financially self-sustaining. Under this regulatory regime, tariffs have
been closely controlled but no system of scrutiny of NRZ operations and
costs has been instituted. NRZ has had little incentive to introduce and
implement systems to ensure the efficient utilization of assets.
2.21           Tariffss  The major principle underlying the current tariff
structure is the need to ensure that no traffic is charged a rate greater
than it is able to bear. Low-value commodities, comprising the major part
of NR2's traffic, are carried at relatively low rates whilst traffic of
relatively high-value, such as petroleum products, is charged comparatively
high rates. This structure has meant that throughout most of the post-
independence period, low-value bulk commodities were carried at rates
significantly below NRZ's direct operating costs, while petroleum products
and other high-value products were carried at significantly above direct
costs (see Annex 2-2 (a) for the position in 1988/89). However, the
underlying cross-subsidies have not been sufficient to ensure
profitability. This problem has been exacerbated by Government's continued
reluctance to grant tariff increases on a timely basis to cover operating
costs. Although tariff levels have not been severely eroded between 1981



- 22 -
and 1989, with increases in revenues per net tonne-kilometer (NTKM)
averaging 112 p.a. relative to average inflation of 13X p.a., tariff
increases were approved with considerable lags thus eroding profitability
over long periods (Annex 2-2 (b)). In December 1989, GOZ authorized
substantial increases (12% to 50%) in tariffs to offset part of the backlog
of inflationary cost increases and redress the distorted structure of
commodity by commodity tariffs by allowing NRZ complete freedom, for the
first time, to distribute the increases to close the gap between direct
costs and tariffs for all commodities. During negotiations, a2reement was
reached with Government that it will maintain this policy.
2.22           Fixed Costs: Fixed costs account for an estimated 451 of
NRZ's operating costs, of which administrative costs account for about 501.
Over 90% of fixed costs are labor costs. At the same time as NRZ's
contribution margin per unit of rail service has been declining sharply (at
an annual average rate of about 15% since independence), administrative
costs have been allowed to increase at around 11% p.a. and overall labor
costs by 13% p.a.
2.23           Investment Screening and Debt Structures NRZ's procedures
for capital budgeting have been weak with little formal regard given to
financial and economic criteria (para 2.05). This has resulted in some
major instances of imprudent investments such as the recent purchase of
substantial amounts of rehabilitation spare parts for the DE7 class
locomotive shortly before they were scheduled for scrapping. Compounding
this problem, NRZ does not have a defined capital structure and finances
investments with debt which is periodically and on an ad hoc basis formally
converted into Government equity interest. The structure and composition
of debt has contributed to NRZ's poor performance in three major respects.
Firstly, debt has been contracted against assets that proved not to be
productive in use. Secondly, the preponderant proportion of debt was
contracted in a relatively short period after independence to finance the
cost of major long-lived assets on terms that imply full payment of debt in
a comparatively short period. These assets comprise a significant part of
NRZ's asset base. Even with highly efficient operations, the productivity
of the railways as a whole would not be able to support the related debt
service payments unless tariffs are extremely high and uncompetitive for
the duration of the period of extreme bunching of debt service obligations.
Finally, the major portion of NRZ's debt is contracted in foreign currency
with NRZ assuming the foreign exchange risk. The depreciation of the
Zimbabwe dollar coupled with NRZ's inability to (i) raise tariffs to offset
the related increase in costs, and (ii) effect gains in productivity,
contributed to an erosion of its ability to meet the debt repayments.
G. Regulatory Reform
2.24           In November 1989, faced with the collapse of NRZ operations
due to severe congestion in the major yards and the severe effect of this
on industrial activity and the projection of large increases in NRZ's
subsidy requirements (Annex 1), Government appointed a Task Force headed by
the Vice President of the country to undertake a thorough review of the



- 23 -
problems affecting NRZ and propose measures for their long-term solution.
The Task Force has recommended and Government has accepted a radical change
in the framework for the regulation of NRZ operations. The framework
outlines the following basis for NRZ operations:
(a)   Government Oversight of Operations: Cabinet to monitor NRZ
performance based on annually agreed operational targets. The
Cabinet Committee on Transport to monitor operation of the new
modalities for a supporting operating environment for NRZ embodied
in the framework to ensure that the requirements of NRZ are met.
(b)   NRZ Board and Manatement: NRZ Board and management be given
explicit financial and operational objectives that reflect
reasonable levels of operating efficiency and the related powers
to achieve these objectives. All Board members to be appointed on
the basis of their professional competence and the Board's links
to Government be strengthened by senior, non-voting representation
of the three key Ministries of Finance, Labor and Transport. The
General Manager to be subject to a performanc contract.
(c)   Organizations A new organizational structure (Chart 2) to remedy
the structural deficiencies of the old structure be implemented
4mmediately and to comprise the following elements: (i) area
management structure with coterminous traffic operations and
engineering zones headed by an area general manager responsible
for day-to-day coordination of operations and reporting directly
to the GM; (ii) a position of AGM for finance to advise
appropriately and play a key role in the development and
implementation of operating and investment plans and pricing and
cost-reduction strategies; (iii) regrouping of the functional
responsibilities of the AGMs, reduction of the day-to-day
operational role of traffic and engineering AGMs and headquarters
functional heads and strengthening of AGM's capacity for system-
wide operational planning and budgeting, functional performance
monitoring and quality control; (iv) creation of a strong central
planning unit with defined responsibilities for formulating
marketing strategies; and (iv) reorganization of RMS as an
autonomous operating division with its manager reporting directly
to the GM.
(d)   Staffing: Staff appointed to key positions to which they are
unsuited be redeployed immediately. The grading structure,
recruitment policies and staffing levels be reviewed and acting
positions be drastically curtailed. NRZ management to institute
an effective and fair personnel appraisal system.
(e)   Access to Foreign Exchange: NRZ's foreign currency requirements
for maintenance inputs, determined on a 'scientific basis' (i.e
based on maintenance plans related to its operating performance
objectives), be provided on an open general import license (not
subject to the current system of foreign currency allocation



- 24 -
operated by the Ministry of Trade and Commerce (MTC)) subject to a
usage audit. NRZ9s foreign currency requirements for properly
determined life-expired assets be provided for by the MFEPD before
the global allocation of foreign exchange to other sectors through
the MTC is made.
(f)   Tariffst Tariff increases be allowed to remedy fully the
structural distortions in NRZ's tariffs. NRZ be delegated the
powers to increase its tariffs automatically in July of each year
to cover increases in its direct costs of operation.
(g)   Capital Structure: The capital structure be rationalized by
Government financing all future infrastructural investments with
equity. Government to assume the foreign exchange risk on all
external loans to NRZ. Consideration be given by Government to
clearing the backlog of unpaid subsidies (Z$ 201 million at the
time of adoption of the framework) to cover NRZ's losses, which
have been financed mainly by Government-guaranteed short-term
borrowings.
(h)   Civil Service Bureaucracy: The civil service bureaucracy impacting
on NRZ operations be drastically reduced by limiting processing
times for NRZ-originated matters to one month for each ministry.
NRZ to be granted blanket authority on procurement for standard
proprietary spare parts subject to it following standard practice
for quotations and a post-event audit of such procurement.
2.25           Government has fully accepted the proposed framework as the
basis for its regulation of NRZ. The framework addresses comprehensively
most of the Bank's concerns about NRZ's regulation. However, a significant
omission from it is an explicit definition of Government policy on
subsidies to NRZ and recognition of the need for a non-contradictory set of
financial goals. NRZ should not need any subsidy under the new framework
if it operates moderately efficiently (para 4.06 and Annexes 4-3 and 4-4).
To assure that there are clear financial goals, and to safeguard against
NRZ exploiting the pricing powers granted to it under the framework to
cover up operating inefficiencies, agreement was reached with Government
during negotiations on explicit financial goals for NRZ tied to its
operating performance objectives. Under this agreement, NRZ is required to
earn a rate of return on its capital employed of not less than 4% in
1990/91. Target rates of returns for subsequent years will be determined
annually by Government in consultation with the Bank. Based on the
operational and financial evaluations undertaken for the project and the
level of cash generation required to ensure a self-sustaining degree of
financial performance, these target returns are expected to be 8% in
1991/92 and 1992/93 and 12% p.a. thereafter (para 6.01 (i)).
2.26           Government has already taken a number of measures to
implement the provisions of the framework. A new Board was appointed in
May 1990 with a clearly defined mandate to increase the railways operating
efficiency and to realize positive rates of return on its total capital



- 25 -
employed. This is a departure from past practice whereby the Board was
appointed with a mandate to implement the general provisions of the
Railways Act. A budgetary appropriation of Z$ 255 million was made in the
3overnment's budget for 199(1/91 to fund the backlog of unpaid subsidies to
NRZ, which amounted to Z$ 283 million as of June 30, 1990. Government has
already paid Z$ 160 million of the appropriated amount to NRZ and plans to
pay the remaining amounts in monthly installments by March 1991. Tariff
increases of an average of 20% for freight and passenger traffic were
approved by Government in July 1990 and implemented by NRZ. This brings
the cumulative increases in freight tariffs since the appointment of the
Task Force to 58%. Government has permitted these increases to be
distributed across commodities so as to substantially eliminate the serious
distortions in the relationship between the tariff and cost of movement for
major commodities. As an interim arrangement to the institution of an OGIL
system, Government has decided that the foreign currency requirements for
NRZ operations will be allocated directly by the Cabinet.
2.27           During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, it would have taken all
necessary further actions to implement all the substantive provisions of
the Framework for NRZ Operations and that NRZ's tariffs for its fiscal year
1991 would have been adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the
Framework (paras 6.02 (i) and 6.02 (ii)). This agreement covered, inter-
alia, the following areas and actions: (a) foreign currency allocation:
Government to detail the administrative arrangements to govern the
allocation of foreign currency to NRZ by Cabinet; (b) tariff adjustments:
Government to detail the delegation of powers to NRZ to adjust its tariffs
to compensate for inflation, to define the costs to be covered and the
relevant indices of increases in such costs; (c) capital structure: all
legal actions to be effected to enable NRZ to issue equity-type securities
thereby enabling the proposed financing of classes of assets in the future
to be effected; (d) performance contract: the execution of a performance
contract satisfactory to the Bank between the NRZ Board and the General
Manager of NRZ; and (e) monitoring and reporting arrangements: the detailed
definition by Government of the monitoring and reporting arrangements to
be complied to by NRZ under the framework.
H. Restructuring StrateaV
2.28           The changes in the regulation of NRZ embodied in the
framework and the performance-orientation of Government's proposed
oversight responsibilities represent, in effect, a comprehensive strategy
for the restructuring of NRZ operations to reverse its deteriorating
operating and financial performance. During appraisal, the elements of a
restructuring strategy were discussed with Government and NRZ. The
understandings reached then are consistent with the proposals adopted by
Government. The restructuring strategy discussed during appraisal consists
of four related elements supported by clearly defined changes in the
framework for Government support and regulation of NRZ. The elements
comprise: (i) an operations improvement strategy; (ii) an organizational



- 26 -
restructuring strategy; (iii) a phvsical asset restructuring and investment
strategy; and (iv) a financial performance improvement strategy.
2.29           The objective of the operations ress.ructuring strategy is to
restore NRZ's productivity to levels attained in the immediate post-
independence period. During appraisal, NRZ confirmed the attainability of
operating efficiency targets designed to achieve this objective and, with
the assistance of consultants, prepared a detailed Operations Improvement
Plan (OIP) outlining the changes in current operating systems and practices
that are necessary to attain them. The OIP is detailed in Annex 3-8. The
OIP has been endorsed by Government as an integral part of its new
framework. During negotiations, the OIP and its underlying performance
targets were reconfirmed with Government and NRZ as the basis of NRZ's
operations during the project period (paras 6.01 (ii) and 6.01 (xii)).
2.30           The organization restructuring element of the strategy is
designed to complement the OIP by effectively devolving managerial
responsibility for day-to-day operations to the districts whilst
strengthening headquarters operations planning and monitoring capacity,
streamlining reporting relationships to enhance managerial effectiveness
and reducing the number of redundant staff. The key aspects of this
substrategy will be: (i) the formalization and strengthening of operations
and management information and control systems; (ii) the related training
of management and other staff; and (iii) the institution of a post-
apprenticeship training program for artisans to accelerate experience-
gaining and the restructuring of grading systems for artisans to increase
the incentive for larger numbers of trained artisans to stay in NRZ. The
Strategy will significantly enhance NRZ's responsiveness to its customers
both through fostering greater contact at the area level and focussing
headquartersO efforts on strengthening its systems for market intelligence
to support the areas.
2.31           The objective of the physical asset restructuring and
investment strategy is to enhance the physical productivity of NRZ's
operational and infrastructural assets by increasing the reliability of the
existing fleet of locomotives through improvements in maintenance
management systems and practices, replacing aged and uneconomic assets
crucial to the attainment of the targets of the OIP and relieving physical
bottlenecks in the structure of the system. The program of investments to
support this strategy that was agreed with NRZ during appraisal has been
endorsed by Government in its new framework.
2.32           The central objective of the financial restructuring
strategy is to enable NRZ to achieve a reasonable return on capital
employed and a reasonable degree of cash generation through an efficient
operating cost and asset structure and good financial management practices.
2.33           These restructuring actions, if successfully implemented,
will lead to significant improvements in NRZ's operating and financial
performance. Firstly, at current levels of operating efficiency, NRZ has



- 27 -
reached the feasible ceiling of its operating capacity. This ceiling is
determined primarily by the number of locomotives it can hire from RSA to
supplement its fleet. Currently, 20 locomotives are on hire from RSA to
supplement NRZ's own fleet in moving 5.3 billion NTKMs of revenue freight
traffic and performing a basic passenger service; this hiring requirement
will rise to 24 locomotives with the inevitable scrapping of poorly
performing locomotives in the next two to three years (Annex 3-2). This is
the maximum number of locomotives that RSA can make available to NRZ. In
contrast, with achievement of the operating targets under the restructuring
strategy, NRZ can perform the current level of transport without the need
for hired locomotives and can cater to an incremental 1.2 billion NTKMs
with a total of 20 hired or new locomotives (Annex 3-2).   By utilizing
assets more effectively through increasing unit loads per train and
reducing locomotive and wagons cycle times (key objectives of the OIP) and
reducing the associated variable cost of staff and the need for unnecessary
hires of locomotives, the restructuring strategy would lower significantly
the unit variable cost of rail transport and ibe level of traffic required
to cover NRZ's fixed costs (para 4.09 and Annexes 4-3 and 4-4). These
central effects of the restructuring strategy are summarized in the table
below which assumes that the efficiency operating targets reconfirmed with
Government and NRZ during negotiations are achieved on the time schedule
planned by Government and NRZ (Annex 3-8 (b)).
1991         1993        1995
Freight Traffic (Million NTKM):
With Strategies:                   6079          6339       6657
Without Strategies:                   5394          5394        5394
Locomotive Hires:
With Strategies:                       18            0           0
Without Strategies:                       22           24          24
Wagon Shortfall:
With Strategies:                    3500          2900        2600
Without Strategies:                     5000         5000        5000
Short-Run Variable Costs (Z$ per NTKM):
With Strategies:                     .030         .032        .031
Without Strategies:                     .040         .040        .040
I.  Restructuring Strategy: Regional Context
2.34           Successful implementation of the restructuring strategy has
important economic and commercial implications for transit traffic in the
region. Firstly, at current levels of operating efficiency, NRZ has a
strong operating incentive to move traffic through RSA to enable it to
generate wagons from SAR that can be detained for domestic movements. This
is not optimal for the Zimbabwean economy (para 1.07). The economy of
Mozambique, subject to efficient operations on the Mozambican railways,
will be a major beneficiary of economically justified diversion of Zimbabwe



- 28 -
traffic from RSA. Secondly, the improvements in operating practices,
particularly the extensive use of block train operations and better wagon
tracing systems, will benefit the major countries using Zimbabwe to transit
their international trade traffic to seaports - Malawi, Zaire and Zambia -
in the form of improved service and transit times. Thirdly, part of the
reduction in the real cost of NRZ operations is likely to be passed on to
the transit countries particularly as competition from other transit
corridors (not incorporating NRZ) increases with the ongoing railways
rehabilitation programs in the region. Finally, the restructuring program
by emphasizing the effective utilization of assets provides a strong
incentive for NRZ as the largest originator or recipient of railways
transit traffic in the region (60% of all regional transit movements at
present) to take the lead in co-operative attempts at maximizing the use of
wagons which, for transit traffic, are the only railways assets traversing
national borders.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01           The basic objective of the proposed project is to support
the organizational, financial and asset restructuring of NRZ necessary to
enable it to increase the utilization of its existing capacity, cater
effectively to the prospective demand for rail transport and become
financially self-sustaining. The proposed project will help reduce the
economic cost of rail transport and stem the costly diversion of traffic
from rail to road. It would help to relax the current transport constraint
on production in sectors where road transport of inputs or outputs is
infeasible, improve the level of cost recovery in NRZ and reduce its claims
on Government resources and improve the prospects for the utilization of
the Mozambican transport corridor to the benefit of both Mozambique and
Zimbabwe. The project objectives are consistent with Government's broad
macro-economic objectives and are supportive of the significant changes in
the regulation of NRZ that GOZ is currently implementing.
B. Genesis of the Project
3.02           During the conduct of the Bank's review of the transport
sector in 1986, a number of underlying causes of NRZ's deteriorating
operating and financial performance were identified. These included a
diverse locomotive fleet, an inefficient inventory management system, poor
investment appraisal procedures, a distorted tariff regime and an open-
ended subsidy comitment from Government. The review was followed by a
number of detailed studies (diesel locomotive fleet restructuring,
investment appraisal methodologies, replacement of computer hardware
systems and strategy for redevelopmenr of software) on these and other
efficiency problems identified during supervision of Loan 2342-ZIM.



- 29 -
Proceeds from the recently closed Loan 2342 were used to address the most
urgent operational problems. The recommendations of the short term studies
and of two major follow-on studies to the TSM (financed by the Bank under
Loan 2342--Investment Study and Organizational and Financial Structure
Study), designed to provide an integrated basis for a longer-term
resolution of NRZ's capacity, organizational and institutional problems and
Government's framework for NRZ operations are the basis of the proposed
project.
C. Detailed Proiect Description
3.03           The project consists of the following components:
(i) Physical Investments
(a)   procurement of 25 new main line locomotives;
(b)   repowering of 43 shunting locomotives;
(c)   provision of locomotive spare parts for clearing arrears of
deferred maintenance;
(d)   procurement of about 520 dropsided and about 500 highsided
wagons;
(e)   procurement of 50 passenger coaches;
(f)   replacement of a telephone exchange, Centralized Traffic
Control supervision equipment, and portable and locomotive
radios;
(g)   procurement of a breakdown crane;
(h)   procurement of plant and machinery and service vehicles
on replacement account;
(i)   procurement of insulation equipment at the electrical
workshops;
(j)   electrification of about 27 kms. of track and provision of
over-voltage correction equipment;
(k)   railway training school equipment.
(il) Organizational Restructurina
(a)   744 person-months of technical assistance for management and
supervisory staff support and skills development;
(b)   management training and training school equipment;



- 30 -
(iii) Operational Restructurina
(a)   procurement of packaged OIS software and of computer
hardware;
(iv) Financial Management and Restructuring
(a)   nine person-months of consulting services to develop cost
accounting and control systems;
(b)   twelve person-months in technical assistance for the
procurement and development of accounting systems software;
(i) Physical Investments:
(a)   Main line Locomotives
3.04           Out of its current diesel locomotive fleet of 285 units (as
at late 1989), NRZ plans to scrap or set aside 130 units by the end of
1993. The scrapping program which is part of NRZ's diesel locomotive fleet
restructuring program, has been reviewed by the Bank and is reasonable
(Annex 3-1). During negotiations, agreement was reached with NRZ that it
will prepare a timetable for the implementation of the scrapping program
and for the disposal of scrapped locomotives which will be adopted and
implemented by it after review by Government and the Bank (para 6.01
(xiii)). Of the residual diesel locomotive fleet of 155 serviceable units
at the end of the scrapping program, 83 units will be suitable for mainline
service. The 83 units will consist of 3 classes of locomotives with
different performance characteristics. However, based on their relative
recent operating performance, these locomotives are equivalent to 71 units
of the most reliable and productive of NRZ's diesel locomotive fleet (the
DE1OA class). Based on a review of (i) the railways' traffic prospects;
(ii) the relative productivity of different makes of diesel locomotives in
the fleet; (iii) the capacity of the existing fleet of steam locomotives on
the Victoria Falls-Plumtree section; and (iv) potential improvements in the
efficiency of traffic operations and the prospective availability of the
diesel locomotive fleet, the requirement for mainline locomotives in 1997,
when NRZ's effective capacity is projected to equal the maximum forecast
traffic, will be for 95 DE1OA class equivalent units, leaving a shortfall
of 24 main line units (DE1OA equivalents). Details of the assessment of
diesel locomotive requirements are provided in Annex 3-2.
3.05           To fill the gap in NRZ's requirements over the next five
years, three broad choices have been examined: (i) acquisition of new
locomotives; (ii) repowering of some locomotives with suitable structural
characteristics capable of being fitted with equipment similar or
equivalent to DE1OA class equipment; and (iii) a mix of acquisition and
repowering. NRZ has identified the DE8B class of locomotives as the most
suitable class of locomotives for repowering. With assistance from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), NRZ had in 1988 embarked



- 31 -
on the design and building of a repowered locomotive using the DE8B frame,
but engines and electrical equipment from a different manufacturer. With
the assistance of consultants, NRZ has reviewed the relative economic
merits of (i) this repowering option compared to repowering with the
existing engine type; and (ii) the optimal repowering option compared to
purchase of new locomotives, and has concluded that repowering of the fleet
of DE8B locomotives under either option has marginal economic benefits.
GOZ and NRZ believe, and the appraisal mission concurs, that there are a
number of risks attached to this approach. In particular: ($) there is no
experience of repowering on the scale and complexity envisaged; and (1i)
the prototype needs long-term trials and evaluation. There are significant
risks that (i) problems in production will lead to significant slippage in
the delivery of locomotives as compared to the purchase of new ones; and
(ii) the repowered locomotives may prove significantly less reliable and
therefore less productive than new ones. Accordingly, GOZ and NRZ have
decided that it would be best to acquire new locomotives and focus NRZ's
engineering management efforts on the maintenance of its serviceable fleet.
The Bank agrees with this position and has confirmed that the marginal
economic benefits of repowering is highly sensitive to the option's
technical risks. In the light of this finding, the project provides for
the procurement of 25 mainline locomotives which are equivalent to 29 DE1OA
class units after adjusting for the greater productivity that can be
attained by new locomotives that will operate predominantly in the eastern
region where the track is better, the traffic denser and the hauls longer
and that will have a relatively higher availability. The surplus of 5
locomotives on assessed requirements will grant NRZ additional flexibility
in operations and would be subject to stringent controls of its use (para
3.35). The DE8A/8B locomotives originally slated for repowering will,
therefore, be set aside pending further operational and technical trials of
the prototype repowered unit. If these trials prove satisfactory,
repowering of the DE8A/8B locomotives could be considered later to meet the
shortfalls that would arise after 1995 when the phased scrapping of another
30 locomotives might cammence.
(b)   Repowerinz of Shunting Locomotives
3.06           The core of NRZ's shunting locomotive fleet is the DE9 and
DE9A locomotives comprising 89% of the shunting locomotives. The DE9
locomotives are being repowered under the ongoing Loan 2342-ZIM. The DE9A
fleet is powered by the same make of engine as in the DE8 series mainline
units. Similar problems have been encountered with these locomotives, with
poor reliability and complex and intensive maintenance requirements.
Repowering is not as technically eomplex as in the case of the DE8Bs since
only the engine would be replaced. A prototype repowering using the
engines to be fitted in the DE9 locomotives has already been successfully
undertaken by NRZ with assistance and production guarantees from the engine
manufacturers. The repowered locomotive has been performing satisfactorily
for over 24 months now. Under the project, it is proposed to repower the
43 remaining units in the fleet of DE9As with the same type of engine as
used in the successful prototype. NRZ's assignment of its shunting



- 32 -
locomotives to its various yards have been reviewed by the Bank and are
satisfactory.
(c)   Locomotive Spare Parts
3.07           NRZ has a significant accumulated backlog of scheduled
locomotive maintenance. The spare parts requirements for the estimated two
years of backlog have already been assessed under a short-term Maintenance
Action Plan agreed with the Bank under the ongoing Loan 2342-ZIM and have
been fully funded by Government. The spare parts requirement for the
deferred maintenance that will arise as the backlog is being cleared will
be funded under the proposed project. The foreign exchange requirements
for routine oxgoing maintenance of locomotives would be provided by the
Government.
(d)   Procurement of Wagons
3.08           A detailed assessment of NRZ's projected operating
performance and a review of its planned wagon scrapping program indicates
that, with the attainment of the wagon productivity targets under the OIP
and suitable reciprocal agreements on the use of wagons originating from or
destined to contiguous railways, NRZ would need to invest in 520 drop-
sided wagons over the next five years to meet the prospective demand for
rail transport (Annex 3-3) of high density commodities. These wagons,
which will be funded under the project, would serve a dual role as carriers
for both breakbulk and containerized traffic. The assessment indicates
that there will be a shortfall of about 1,000 highsided wagons by 1995.
During negotiation, agreement was reached with Government and NRZ that 500
highsided wagons would be provided for under the project. The balance of
the shortfall in highsided wagons would be hired from contiguous railways.
Since the retention of an unduly large number of wagons on the system is
one of the major contributory causes of inefficient operations, agreement
was reached with 1RZ during negotiations that (a) no later than March 31,
1991, it shall prepare and submit to Government and the Bank programs for
the scrapping and disposal of highsided and drop-sided wagons, including
timetables for the implementation of such programs; and (b) it shall adopt
and implement scrapping and disposal programs satisfactory to Government
and the Bank (para 6.01 (xiii)).
(e)   Rehabilitation of Coaches
3.09           The requirement for coaches to operate the existing level of
domestic passenger services has been estimated at 164 coaches, including
provision for maintenance and spares. An additional 50 coaches are
required for peak periods and for festive seasonal trains for a total
requirement of 214 coaches under the current level of service provision.
By 1995, the stock of non-life-expired coaches would be 152 units leaving a
shortfall of 62 coaches to provide the existing level of service. The
physical census of coaches indicates that a substantial number of coaches
that will be life-expired have serious structural defects and it will not



- 33 -
be cost-effective to rehabilitate them. Moreover, as NRZ completes the
structural adjustment of its fares to cost recovery levels (paras 2.26 and
2.27), it would need to upgrade the standard of its coaching fleet to stay
competitive with road transport particularly on the important Harare -
Bulawayo segment. To enable NRZ to continue to provide an acceptable level
and quality of service during the project period, agreement was reached
during negotiation that the procurement of 50 coaches will be provided for
under the project. For the balance of requirement of coaching stock, NRZ
would select coaches that are life-expired on the basis of age but that are
in reasonable condition and undertake minimal refurbishments on them for
use on festive and seasonal trains. To protect the financial viability of
the passenger services, agreement was reached with Government during
negotiations that passenger fares will be increased each fiscal year by
amounts sufficient to enable NRZ to generate adequate additional revenues
to cover the amortization of coaches procured during such fiscal year.
Agreement was also reached with Government that the passenger services'
revenues and attributable costs will be accounted for and disclosed
separately from NRZ's other activities in NRZ's annual accounts (paras 6.01
(iii) and 6.01 (xiv)).
(f)   Signalling and Telecommunications
3.10           The following equipment, which have reached the end of their
useful lives, is proposed to be replaced under the projects
(i) CTC supervision equipment on the Harare-Mutare section;
(ii) telephone exchange at Harare; and
(iii) portable radio sets for locomotives and yard operations
In addition, a digital data transmission link from the Computer Bureau to
NRZ's headquarters building is included in the project. This link will
reduce reliance on the public telecommunications network which is
increasingly congested and unreliable.
(g)   Breakdown Crane
3.11           NRZ currently possesses three breakdown cranes of 25, 35 and
50 tonnes capacity. These were acquired in 1931, 1953 and 1962
respectively. Apart from the inadequacy of capacity, the older cranes are
subject to frequent breakdowns and cannot be relied upon in emergencies. A
100 tonne diesel-operated crane is proposed to be procured under the
project.
(h)   Plant, Equipment and Service Vehicles
3.12           Overaged machinery and equipment in the workshops at
Bulawayo, Dabuka and Mutare, and permanent way maintenance equipment in
need of urgent replacement have been identified, and these items are
included in the project. The project also provides for the replacement of



- 34 -
essential rail and road service vehicles and spare parts for rehabilitation
of currently unserviceable road vehicles.
(i)   Electrical Workshop Equipment
3.13           The electrical workshop which undertakes re-insulation and
heavy repairs to electrical rotating equipment is deficient of essential
items of equipment like a vacuum pressure impregnation unit, coil winder
and a banding machine. With the aging of the locomotive fleet, the
workload on the workshop is increasing and this lends urgency to the need
for this equipment, which is proposed to be procured under the project.
(j)   Extension of Electrification
3.14           The existing electrified section of NRZ was constructed
without due consideration given to the pattern of exchange of traffic
between it and the diesel sections. In particular, the efficiency of
operations around Harare is considerably impeded by the design of the
interface between electric and diesel sections. Firstly, most industrial
traffic to or from Harare is destined for or originates from Msasa, the
industrial suburb six (6) kilometers from the Harare station and yards.
The electrification of the system, by terminating at Harare, gives rise to
a need for changes of traction, considerable amounts of shunting to and
from Msasa and the undue detention of wagons and congestion of the yards at
Harare and Msasa related to such activity. Secondly, most agricultural and
fertilizer movements on NRZ emanate from or are destined to Mcunt Hampden,
which is about 22 kms from the main line network and is the central rail
distribution point for the eastern region--the country's main area of
commercial agriculture. Again, due to the structure of the electrified
section, traffic to and from Mount Hampden is subject to traction changes,
considerable shunting and double-handling and the associated detention of
wagons. With the proposed introduction of block train services and other
measures to be undertaken as part of the OIP, the need to avoid yard
detentions and run through as many trains as possible becomes more urgent.
Under the proposed project, the electrified section of track will be
extended by 21.9 km from Lochinvar to Mt. Hampden and by 5.7 km from Harare
to Msasa to relieve the existing structural impediment to efficient
operations. The proposed work will consist of the extension of the
catenary system, minor modifications to yards and immunization of the
telecommunications system along the section to be electrified to prevent
the electrical field that will be created from interfering with
telecommunications signals.
3.15           Train operations on the currently electrified sections are
frequently disrupted by the tripping of locomotive circuit breakers caused
by permissible over-voltages in the power supply because the tap-changers
in NRZ's traction transformers do not have the provision for lower
settings. Under the proposed project, fourteen auxiliary autotransformers
are planned to be provided at the seven traction substations on the system
to correct the over-voltages.



- 35 -
(k)   Trainina school equipment
3.16           The equipment needs of NRZ's training school, consisting of
audio-visual aids and allied equipment, training models for communications
systems, CTC,locomotive maintenance, and library equipment are proposed to
be financed under the project.
(ii) Organizational Restructuring
(a)   Management and Supervisory Development Program
3.17           Management Development and Support: As detailed in Chapter
II, key operating systems and procedures currently in use on NRZ are
deficient. NRZ management are unfamiliar with modern and efficient methods
of planning and control of most functional activities in the railways. The
project will include about 372 person-months of technical assistance for
management development program. The assistance for the program will be
arranged in three phases: (i) a preliminary diagnostic review by a seven-
member management development team to familiarize itself with the systems
in use on NRZ in order to map out the desirable plan for changes needed to
enhance efficiency, and to identify the specific capabilities and training
needs of managerial staff; (ii) introduction of the changes in systems and
procedures, and training, both in school and on the job, of NRZ staff in
managing efficiently with the changed systems; and (iii) subject to a
midcourse review after 12 months from the start of the first phase, the
extension of the scheme to cover a wider body of NRZ's management.
3.18           Supervisory Skills Development: There is also a need for a
systematic skills upgrading program for NRZ's supervisory level staff in
most operating departments. Agreement has been reached with NRZ to provide
such assistance in the proposed project on a basis similar to that for the
Management Development Program. The initial core team of technical
assistance would consist of seven persons, to be expanded to 13 persons,
subject to the mid-term assessment. A total provision of 372 person-
months has been made for this component in the project.
3.19           The midcourse review for both technical assistance programs
will be conducted by the General Manager of NRZ, assisted by independent
outside experts in consultation with the Bank, and will evaluate the
effectiveness of the system changes and the transfer of technology and
know-how, taking into account corporate, departmental and individual
performance results. Detailed Terms of Reference for the Management and
Supervisory Development Program were agreed with Government and NRZ during
negotiations and are attached as Annex 3-4.
3.20           A number of railways systems around the world have
undertaken a radical restructuring of their organization and modernization
of their management, planning and control systems in response to regulatory
changes similar to the ones now being implemented in Zimbabwe. During
appraisal, Government and NRZ expressed their wish to tap this valuable
experience in the restructuring of NRZ. The shortlist of firms to provide



- 36 -
assistance under this component will be limited to operating railway firms
with such experience or consulting firms closely allied to such railways
with the ability to draw personnel from such railways. The team providing
assistance will be expected to draw a considerable degree of support, for
both systems modifications and training activities, from its parent
railways.
(b)   Management Training
3.21           As part of the management development program, NRZ's
managerial and supervisory staff would need exposure to other well-
developed and well-run railway systems' methods of operations. This will
be organized mainly in the form of secondments for structured work
experience on other railways systems but will also include support for
attendance at short term specialized courses organized by such railways and
professional institutions. The railways will be chosen for the secondment
of NRZ staff on the basis of their strength in given functions and
nominated NRZ staff will spend defined periods of time on study and work
tours on such railways. Provision has been made in the project for 66 such
overseas secondments and courses of an average duration of three months
each. The final program of such secondments and training will be devised
by NRZ after the diagnostic phase of the management and supervisory
development support program.
3.22           In addition, there is need for enhancing the qualifications
and specialized knowledge of selected middle and senior management staff by
long term professional courses of study in universities and professional
institutions. It is proposed to provide for ten such courses of an average
duration of 18 months each.
(c)   Studies
3.23           The following studies are proposed to be carried out under
the project:
(i) Locomotive Maintenance Audit: This study will audit the
functioning of the Preventive Maintenance System for locomotives on NRZ
with special reference to quality control measures, timeliness of
corrective actions and the effectiveness of monitoring systems. The
consultants doing the study will also be charged with the responsibility
for establishing a permanent Inspectorate to carry out the auditing
functions as a regular measure and as an aid to effective maintenance
management. Draft Terms of References for this study are attached as
Annex 3-5.
(ii) Manpower Study: The background to the need for such a study,
which has been mandated by Government, is detailed in Chapter II. Draft
Terms of Reference for the study are attached as Annex 3-6. Implementation
of the agreed recommendations of the study will be critical to the
sustainability of managerial improvements to be sought under the project.
Accordingly, during negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and



- 37 -
NRZ on the timing of key milestones in the conduct of the study and the
modalities for implementation of the study's recommendations. Agreement
was also be reached that the recommendations of the study will be
implemented only after the Bank's views have been taken into account.
(iii) MIS Studys The weaknesses in the structure of NRZ's information
systems are detailed in Chapter II. The main project priority is to
strengthen selected information systems in key operating departments as
expeditiously as possible. However, NRZ management has two medium-term
objectives for its information systems. Firstly, NRZ management intends to
reduce the clerical effort in information generation and analysis in all
departments. This is currently a serious impediment to producing timely
information needed for decision-making. Secondly, NRZ management intends
to create common corporate databases from which suitably formatted
information can be made available to different layers of management. This
is in contrast to the current system where all data is made available to
all layers of management in substantially the same unprocessed form. Much
of such data is of little or limited usefulness or relevance to many of the
layers of management to which it is disseminated. To realize these
objectives a detailed review of information systems in all departments
needs to be undertaken, user requirements at different levels ascertained,
commonalities of information requirements across departments established
and the feasibility and options for linking data requirements across
departments evaluated. To assist NRZ in undertaking such a task, the
project provides 20 person-months for the conduct of a Management
Information System (MIS) study. Draft Terms of Reference for such a study
are attached as Annex 3-7.
(iv) Provision has also been made for a lump sum (US$0.41 million) to
be utilized for short term specific operational and efficiency studies that
may arise in the course of the execution of the project.
(iii) Operational Restructuring
(a) Operating Information System
3.24           A pressing need for personal computer (pc)-based decision
support systems in the yards and the locomotive depots has been identified.
These systems will assist NRZ staff in tracking wagons despatched to
sidings and satellite yards from the major yards and terminals and in
tracking the performance of individual locomotives assigned to the various
depots. Lack of effective monitoring systems in these areas is a major
contributory factor to the unduly high detention of wagons in yards and
customer sidings and the consequential chronic under-utilization of wagons
as well as NRZ's inability to devise effective routine maintenance plans
for its locomotive fleet. NRZ has already made substantial progress in the
design of such systems. The hardware and software requirements for these
subsystems will be financed under the proposed project.



- 38 -
(b)   Substitutional Technical Assistance
3.25           NRZ has a number of unfilled vacancies at the engineer,
officer and artisan levels in the engineering departments and the Computer
Bureau. These vacancies will need to be filled whilst NRZ trains an
adequate nuiber of replacements and creates an incentive climate conducive
to the retention of such personnel. Agreement has been reached that such
assistance will be provided under the project. In respect of artisans, the
assistance will be tapered off to match the output of NRZ's training school
and the introduction of incentive system. It is expected that the
implementation of the recommendations -f the Manpower Study (para 3.23
(ii)) to be undertaken under the project will assist in reducing the
turnover of skilled and trained staff in NRZ; this substitutional
assistance will, therefore, be time-bound. In addition, as a matter of
precaution, a small provision of a "turnover contingency' has been made for
possible slippages in NRZ's plan to train, attract and retain suitable
staff; this would be used only to cover unavoidable needs to keep up the
performance targets agreed under the OIP. The content of the
substitutional assistance to be provided under the project is as follows:
Engineers                       16 person-years
Computer Officers                9
Artisans                       120
Staff Turnover Contingency      12
(iv) Financial Management and Restructuring
(a)   Cost Accounting and Control System
3.26           NRZ's cost accounting and control system will be crucial to
the effective monitoring and control of the efficiency and cost-
effectiveness of its operations. The current system is inherited from the
pre-independence period and is deficient in several respects. Firstly, it
is primarily a computerized expenditure accounting and budget monitoring
system. Although costs are accumulated by numerous activity centers and
departments, the focus of the system is not to facilitate the analysis of
operational reasons for underlying cost variances but to track expenditures
for the financial accounting system and against budgeted departmental
levels. Departmental budgets are based mainly on histori_al patterns and
bear little relationship to operationally optimal expenditure levels.
Tracking of operational causes of significant cost variances requires
detailed manual analysis or time-consuming investigations. Secondly, the
system has not been subject to any detailed review since independence,
largely because any changes would be beyond the capacity of computer staff
to implement easily. As a result, the definition of cost centers is not
necessarily of relevance for cost control. The project will provide
assistance for a review and redesign of the existing cost accounting system
to enhance its usefulness as a tool for cost analysis and control. Much of
the preliminary review work will require detailed knowledge of the existing
system and will be undertaken by NRZ staff. However, due to the limited
experience of NRZ staff and their limited knowledge of budgetary control
systems in existence elsewhere, NRZ will require an estimated nine person-
months of consultative assistance to review and suggest improvements to the



- 39 -
designs, to assist in the identification of sources of systems software and
in the selection of software. The project provides for the acquisition and
contract development of software and its related implementation.
(b)   Financial Accountink Systems
3.27           In line with its program of mainframe computer replacement
(para 2.14), NRZ is reviewing its financial accounting system to determine:
(i) the changes in data gathering and analysis required; (ii) the likely
and desirable changes in reports generation; (iii) the range of accounting
subsystems to be computerized; and (iv) the interface between accounting
subsystems and between the accounting information system and other systems.
The project will provide assistanc for the acquisition of computer
software packages and the contrac- development of software. Provision has
been made under the project for    person-months of implementation
assistance.
D. Cost Estimates and Proiect Financing
Proiect Costs
3.28           The total project cost, including price and physical
contingencies, is estimated at US$263.4 million with a foreign exchange
cost of US$161.7 million or 61% of total costs. The estimated project
costs are summarized in (Table 3.1) below and detailed in Annex 3-9. GOZ
has decided to waive all taxes and duties for project components. Price
escalation of 4.9% p.a. for foreign costs and 10% p.a. for local costs have
been included in the costs estimates. The rates for escalation of foreign
costs are based on the Bank's projection of manufacturers unit value (MUV)
index for the project implementation period. It is assumed that the
divergences between foreign and domestic costs will be offset by
adjustments in the exchange rate. The project costs are estimated on the
basis of an implementation period of six years, which is consistent with
the experience of the Bank in implemertation of infrastructure projects in
the region and of the previous projects in the subsector in Zimbabwe. GOZ
and NRZ are planning on the basis of implementing the project in four
years. This target implementation schedule (Chart 3) was confirmed with
GOZ and NRZ during negotiations (paras 6.01 (iv) and 6.01 (xv)).



- 40 -
Table 3.1 Proiect Cost Estimates
Local    Foreign    Total      % Foreign
(US$ million equivalent)
New Locomotives                      --      50.0       50.0        100.0
Locomotives Repowering              2.1       6.0        8.1         24.0
Locomotives Spare parts              --       2.2        2.2        100.0
Dropsided Wagons                   18.0       6.0       24.0         25.0
Highsided Wagons                   20.9      10.3       31.2         33.0
Passenger Coaches                  10.0      10.0       20.0         50.0
CTC Renewal                         2.2       4.8        7.0         69.0
Radio Equipment and PABX            0.6       1.7        2.3         74.0
Digital Transmission Link           0.1       0.9        1.0         90.0
Breakdown Crane                      --       2.5        2.5        100.0
Plant & Equipment                   0.3       5.2        5.5         94.0
Service Vehicles                     --       4.7        4.7        100.0
Electrification Extension           2.7       4.2        6.9         61.0
Overvoltage Correction Equipment   0.1        1.2        1.3         92.0
Information Systems                 0.3       1.6        1.9         84.0
Technical Assistance                5.6      12.8       18.4         70.0
Training                            0.3       2.6        2.9         90.0
Studies                             0.6       1.1        1.7         65.0
Total Base Costs                63.8     127.8      191.6
Physical Contingencies              6.2       6.7       12.9
Price Escalation                   31.6      27.2       58.8
101.7     161.7     263.4          61.0
3.29           The cost estimates have been derived on the following bases:
(a) new locomotives: recent quotations obtained by NRZ and neighboring
railways for mainline locomotives; (b) locomotive repowering: recent
quotations for engines and other components obtained by NRZ and NRZ
assessment of labor costs and factory overheads for production work; (c)
technical assistance and consulting services: actual costs for similar
services in NRZ adjusted as necessary to take account of prevailing rates
for similar services from other geographic sources experienced by
neighboring railways; (d) computer software: recent experience of rates for
similar products; and (e) electrification extension: past NRZ experience of
electrification and manufacturers' responses to NRZ inquiries on likely
prices for components for the volumes likely to be required.
Financing Plan
3,30           The proposed IBRD loan of US$38.6 million and the
participation of the cofinanciers will amount to US$98.1 million and would
finance about 372 of total project costs and 612 of foreign costs. The
project will be cofinanced by USAID, KfW, Austria, FINNIDA, Switzerland and
DANIDA. A further US$28.4 (18%) in foreign costs relating to the
locomotives component of the project is likely to be financed by USAID
whose grant agreement covers all the shunting locomotive to be repowered
and the first tranche of mainline locomotives to be procured under the



- 41 -
project (para 4.14) and who has indicated the likelihood of a project paper
amendment to cover the second tranche of mainline locomotives. The
financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2. The financing plan
was confirmed with Government during negotiations (para 6.01 (v)). A grant
agreement covering the financing of the locomotives to be procured under
the project has been signed between USAID and Zimbabwe.   This was one of
the conditions of effectiveness of the loan agreed with Government during
negotiations. The Bank loan will be made to Zimbabwe for a term of 20
years, including a five-year grace period on repayments. All donor funds,
with the exception of financing for the electrification component, will be
made available to GOZ on the donors' terms and will be onlent to NRZ (para
6.01 (v)). Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations that
the Bank loan, net of the provision for financing of the electrification
works, and all donor funds will be onlent to NRZ at Government's standard
variable rate to parastatals for a term of 20 years, including a five year
grace period on repayments (para 6.01 (vi)). The rate is computed annually
based on the weighted nominal (Zimbabwe dollar) average cost of the pool of
outstanding Government debt. The current rate is 10.51. This rate is
about 75 basis points (0.75%) higher than the rate on a recent term loan
contracted by NRZ from a local merchant bank. The cost of the
electrification component proposed to be financed by the Bank will be
netted against the total funding to be onlent to NRZ and passed on to NRZ
as equity, in accordance with the provisions of the Government's new
framework for NRZ (para 2.24). The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between Government and NRZ embodying the on-lending terms and
conditions agreed at negotiations will be a condition for loan
effectiveness (para 6.02 (iii)). The loca,l cost of the technical
assistance and training component of the project will be financed by NRZ
out of its cash flow whilst the balance of local costs net of the
electrification component will be borrowed from the domestic market by NRZ.
E. Proiect Implementation
3.31           The project is to be implemented over a six-year period,
which is consistent with the profile of Bank implementation for railways
projects in the region. NRZ will be responsible for execution of all
project components. NRZ has had experience in implementing two Bank
projects - Transport Rehabilitation and Imports Program (Ln. 1994-ZIM),
which closed in December 1986, and the Railways Development Project (Ln.
2342-ZIM), which was closed in June 1990. These two projects have,
however, suffered from delays due in large part to difficulties in
complying with Bank procurement procedures, and to difficulties related to
GOZ procurement procedures and the limits of authority for decision making
on tenders. The former problem will be addressed by the proposed
establishuent of a Project Coordinating Unit staffed by adequately
experienced NRZ employees, who will undergo a period of training to
familiarize them with the procurement procedures of the external financiers
of the project, including the Bank. In addition, the Management
Development team consultants will include a specialist for the Supplies
Department, and for this post, a person with proven experience in
international procurement procedures will be chosen to assist NRZ staff.
With respect to the second problem, Government has decided under the
framework for NRZ operations that authority for all tender decisions



TANA S.2   rnwcmwcu  Kmz
:DVXZM  FVC
GoOI          9W1     WAID        DM         KU W     1WiS      FPi   AIU1A         ToTML  IBm_    0AP
La                     81.1       -         89.4       -         -          -         -         -         70.5      70.8        0.0
Low2 a.e                                      -         -         -                    -                    2.9        .9        0.0
_gm                     S6.8          _                                                           -        0_.8       65.8       0.0
o_nw.                   39.4    -             -         -         -          -         -          -          .4    .4   0.0
CMc Rb le                8.6                  -         -         6.4        -         -          -        10.0       10.0       0.0
Rbdre.                   0.9       -          -         -         -          3.5                  -         8.3       1.2        0.0
T . Islam, ULe           0.8       1.X                  -         -                    -          -         1.4       1.4        0.0
Sr.edm Crn.                   -         -               -         -                    8.8       -          8.8       8.8        0.0
pite 1                   0.6       3.0             -              1.2                  -         -          8.8    S .5          0.0
Pie 8                    1.6       -          -         -         -          _              -               1.0       1.0        0.0
Pie" a *\-                         o.*        -         -         -          -         -          1.8       3.0       2.5        0.0
0..ice V.iel: WIal       -         3.1        -         -         -        J-                                .1       2.1        0.0
sd        -         8.9        -         -                    -         -          -         8.9        8.9       0.0
II... bta,<bla           4.0       5.S             -         -         -          -              -         10.1      10.1        0.0
0tW eonoction            0.2       -         -          -         -          -         1.4       -          1.0       1.6        0.0
1f     h   sm           0.8        .1        -         -         -          -         -         -           .6       2.0        0.0                                      t
Techlncal A..)ame        8.09     14.0        -         2.1       -          -         -          -        8S.8       36.0       0.0
TPOlWN                   0.4       1.9        -         1.6        -         -         -          -         8.9       8.9        0.0
09dl1e                   0.9       1.5        -         0.0        -         -         -          -         8.4       2.4        0.0
T?fi      1S.5       80.6       80.4       s.7       7.6        2.8       4.7        1.8     368.5      N36.5       0.0
/ Pt Is Nm..l le. WV.ikab
Pie"l3,  w.atri..1 Workahe
PI, t 8: Por_mat 1su Epiuus



- 43 -
financed by international agencies will be delegated from the Government
Tender Board to NRZ subject only to the prior review requirement of the
agency concerned. This decision was confirmed with respect to prospective
Bank-financed procurement during negotiations (paras 6.01 (vii) and 6.01
(xvi)).
P. Procurement
3.32           The procurement procedures for the Bank-financed components
are as follows: (a) Works: The electrification extension works, with the
exception of the necessary track relaying component, will be carried out by
contract. Contract award will be on the basis of ICB under the Bank's
guidelines. Since the annual per capita income of the country exceeds the
threshold for domestic preference, there will be no preference for domestic
bidders. The works will include supply and erection of the masts and
transmission equipment, as well as the necessary interference suppression
equipment for communication lines. The design and specifications for the
equipment will be prepared by NRZ and would ensure compatibility with the
existing electrified section while ensuring competition; (b) Goods:
Mechanical workshop equipment and machinery, rail service vehicles and road
service vehicles will be procured as three separate lots under ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Locomotive spare parts will be
appropriately packaged and procured on the basis of advertised competitive
bidding from locomotive and/or equipment manufacturers and reputed
suppliers who can produce proof of satisfactory supplies and performance;
proprietary spare parts, available only from original manufacturers, up to
an aggregate value of US$1.0 million, will be procured by direct
negotiation;   Services:  Contracts for teahnical assistance for Management
Development and Supervisory Skills Development will be in one package, and
will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of
Consultants (1981) to the best-evaluated firm from a short list of firms
comprised of operating railways entities or consulting firms with adequate
back-up in terms of personnel and expertise from an operating railways.
The Substitutional Technical Assistance (para 3.25) will be a separate
package. Each study will be an individual package. The selection of firms
to provide these services will be on the basis of the Bank's Guidelines for
Use of Consultants. (d) Contract Review: The works, goods and services
bidding packages and all bidding packages for goods over $100,000 would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation resulting
in a coverage of 97% of the value of all contracts. The balance of the
contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award. The procurement of items to be financed by the cofinanciers will b2
on the basis of their own procurement procedures. The procurement
arrangements were confirmed with Government and NRZ during negotiations
(paras 6.01 (vii) and 6.01 (xvi)). The procurement methods are summarized
in the table below:



- 44 -
Procurement Methods and Costs
Procurement Method
Prolect Element                           ICB      LIB       Other     Total
(US$ million)
(figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IBRD)
I.   Goods
A. Locomotives and Locomotive
Spare Parts                         1.9      --       71.5        73.4
(1.9)               (1.0)      (2.9)
B. Rolling Stock                        --       --       112.5      112.5
C. Signals & Telecoms                   1.4      --        13.1       14.5
(1.2)                          (1.2)
D. Plant & Equipment                    2.9      --         7.7       10.6
(2.7)                          (2.7)
E. Service Vehicles                     6.0      --         --         6.0
(6.0)                          (6.0)
F. Information Systems                  2.4      --         0.2        2.6
(2.0)              (0.1)       (2.1)
II.  Civil Works
A. Electrification                      9.8      --         1.8       11.6
(5.5)                          (5.5)
III. Services
A. Technical Assistance                 --       --        25.9       25.9
(14.8)     (14.8)
B. Training                             __       __         3.9        3.9
(1.9)      (1.9)
C. Studies                              --       --         2.4        2.4
(1.5)      (1.5)
Total                            24.4       --      239.0       263.4
(19.3)     __       (19.3)     (38.6)
G. Disbursements
3.33           The loan will be disbursed on the following basis: (i) 1002
of foreign expenditures for equipment, material and locomotives spare parts
or 701 of the cost of imported goods procured locally; and (ii) 100% of
foreign expenditures on technical assistance, consulting services and



- 45 -
training or 70% of the cost of services procured locally. All disbursement
claims would be fully documented. In order to expedite disbursement of
funds, a special account with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million
(equivalent to about four months of estimated expenditures) will be
established in foreign currency. The special account will be replenished
by the Bank in accordance with procedures agreed at negotiations (paras
6.01 (viii) and 6.01 (xvii)). A schedule of estimated disbursements is
shown at Annex 3.10.
H.  Reporting and Monitoring
3.34           During appraisal, agreement was reached with NRZ on a
Quarterly Progress Report comprising a brief narrative on each aspect of
the restructuring program, interim financial results and serious problems
experienced or anticipated and specific assistance, if any, noeded. The
narrative will be supported by a detailed annexure covering the following
areas:
(i) Procurement of goods, to cover all funding agencies, in separate
groups of items for each.
(ii) Procurement of iervices.
(iil) Implementation progress of OIP.
(iv) Performance indicators.
(v) Implementation of recommendations of studies.
3.35           During negotiations, agreement was reached with NRZ that in
its annual operations budgeting exercise, it will provide, no later than
one month after the end of its fiscal year, projections for the following
year of its locomotive and wagon hiring requirements, its use or
disposition of locomotives and wagons assessed to be surplus to
requirements, if any, and its operating costs and revenues based on
explicitly specified performance targets for the year and manpower and
locomotive fleet zestructuring actions to be undertaken during the year
(para 6.01 (xviii)). To facilitate this exercise, an integrated
operational-financial model was developed as the basis of the projections
for this project and senior NRZ planning and finance staff are familiar
with its use. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOZ that NRZ
will provide, t,o later than six months after the completion of the project,
its contribution to the project completion report in a form satisfactory to
the Bank (para 6.01 (xxii)).
I. Accounting and Audit
3.36           NRZ's annual accounts are audited by a Zimbabwean affiliate
of a reputable international accounting firm and are released within six
months of the end of the financial year. The auditors are acceptable to



- 46 -
the Bank. NRZ's accounting and internal control systems are adequate to
ensure the acceptable recording and reporting of all project-related
financial transactions. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
NRZ that project-related transactions and the financial performance of
NRZ's passenger services' operations would be separately accounted for and
audited by its auditors and furnished to the Bank together with NRZ's
audited consolidated annual accounts and the auditor's management letter
within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para 6.01 (xix)). The
audit report would contain a separate opinion on the operation of the
Special Account.
J. Environmental Impact, Industrial Health and Safety
3.37           The project is expected to have marginal beneficial or no
impact on the environment. The main thrust of the assets restructuring
component of the project is to replace inefficient diesel locomotives with
more modern, efficient and reliable diesel locomotives. With the
improvement in technological as well as operational efficiency, there will
be a reduction in the fuel consumed per unit of transport service provided,
as well as a reduction in emission of unburnt gases as a consequence of
Improved combustion in the cylinders of the new and repowered locomotives.
There is no track rehabilitation or construction involved in the project,
and the existing track is almost wholly laid on concrete and steel
sleepers.
3.38           The system for the disposal of used engine lubricating oil
is environmentally sound. NRZ has a well-established record of collecting
such oil in settling tanks and sending it to the oil industry for
recycling.
3.39           NRZ uses weed-killers on the track to keep it free from
weeds. The weed-killing compounds used, tog'- .her with the rates of use
p.a., are detailed in Annex 3-11. The compounds have no known adverse
environmental impact. Cleaning chemicals used in workshops have also been
reviewed and are detailed in Annex 3-11. These chemicals are not
environmentally harmful and the staff using them are provided with adequate
protective clothing and gear. NRZ does not use chromate compounds as an
additive for engine coolant. Instead, Nalcool 2100 is in use; this has not
been reported to have any toxic effects on workers in contact with it.
3.40           NRZ has a well-established and well-staffed Occupational
Health Branch. In addition to medical assistance, the senior staff of this
branch monitor health and safety hazards, and investigate industrial
accidents. Use of protective gear is also monitored. However, it has been
noticed that there is a degree of neglect on the part of staff in using all
the protective gear provided. NRZ is organizing staff seminars and courses
to get over this weakness and improve safety consciousness of the staff. A
Safety Committee with workers' representatives has also been formed, and an
annual Safety Competition organized. Locomotive drivers have their eyes
tested every two years. Similarly, staff employed in exceptionally noisy
areas have periodic ear tests carried out. Staff working in areas with



- 47 -
fumes--the foundry, paint shops, smithy, etc.--have lung capacity tests
carried out periodically. Staff working with lead-bearing materials have
periodic blood tests carried out.
3.41           NRZ has a well-established and well-run training program on
industrial safety and safety awareness covering all staff:
(a)   a one-week course for new recruits on workshop safety,
precautions on electrified sections, health and
hygiene, fire protection, and first aid;
(b)   short refresher courses on industrial safety and
health for all supervisors undergoing training; and
(c)   general talks on safety matters conducted periodically
at the various work centers.
3.42           To support NRZ's industrial safety and health training
efforts, the project will provide for the financing of a small quantity of
audio-visual equipment and also medical testing equipment for NRZ's
Occupational Health and Safety Branch.
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Historic Financial Performance
4.01           NRZ's recent financial performance has been discussed in
Chapter II.
B. Financial Restructuring Strategy and Prolections
Financial Goals
4.02           During appraisal, agreement was reached with Government and
NRZ on a financial restructuring strategy to stem and reverse the
deterioration in NRZ's financial performance. The goal of the strategy is
the attainment by NRZ of financial self-sufficiency on a sustainable basis.
This goal was confirmed during negotiations. Specifically, NRZ should, by
the end of the fourth year of the implementation of the project, be
sufficiently profitable and cash-generative tot (i) cover its operating
costs including an adequate provision for maintenance of its operating and
infrastructural assets; (ii) meet its existing debt service obligations;
and (iii) generate an additional cash flow sufficient to cover the annual
equivalent cost of future replacement investments in operating assets to
maintain its effective capacity. This overall level of cash flow
generation is consistent with a rate of return on NRZ's projected capital
employed of about 12Z p.a from 1994 onwards.



- 48 -
4.03           The financial goals will not be effective if (a) they
coexist with contradictory policies on subsidies, including subsidies on
capital inputs provided by Government in the form of equity; and (b) NRZ,
under reasonably cash-generative operations, retains an unduly large level
of profits with no prospect of productive investment in the business. To
ensure that the financial goal is effective, agreement was reached with
Government during negotiations that the rates of returns to be set NRZ from
its fiscal year 1992 would be consistent with the specific financial goals
agreed (para 4.02) and the agreed operational efficiency targets (para
2.29). The evaluation of NRZ's financial performance (paras 4.05 to 4.10)
and Annex 4) indicates that this would imply no further subsidies from
Government since transitional cash shortfalls from operations could be
comfortably financed by short-term debt. Agreement was also reached with
Government during negotiations that, no later than March 31, 1991, the
Board of NRZ will prepare a statement on its dividend distribution policy
to be adopted by it after taking into account comments by Government and
the Bank (paras 6.01 (ix) and 6.01 (xx)).
Restructuring Actions
4.04           Implementation of the financial restructuring strategy will
involve concerted actions in seven key areas:
(i) Volume-based Revenue Enhancement: At present, NRZ's ability to
cater to the demand for rail freight transport, given the existing low
efficiency of its operations, depends on its ability to import significant
amounts of rolling stock and locomotives from RSA. The ceiling on such
assets that RSA can make available to it has been reached and by extension
so has NRZ's effective capacity with current operating practices. Against
this, the underlying additional demand for freight transport over the next
five years has been estimated at between 2.0 and 3.4 million tonnes p.a.
The ability to earn the related incremental revenues from such traffic is
central to the financial recovery strategy.
(ii) Variable Cost Reduction: The cost incurred by NRZ per unit of
service performed is significantly greater than could be achieved with more
efficient operations. Firstly, hiring of locomotives is not warranted by
the size of current operations which under modestly efficient operations
can be performed wholly with NRZ's fleet. Secondly, with modest gains in
efficiency the hiring of wagons should not exceed an average of 3,500 per
day, even with the projected maximum traffic on offer over the next five
years. This compares to hires of over 9,000 per day from RSA under recent
operations. Thirdly, the system of rigid working to a timetable by train
crews, maintenance management practices, the large number of units of
relatively poorly performing locomotives and the large number of
inexperienced artisanal staff in the locomotive workshops lead to a larger
than necessary work force in these areas, excessive generation of overtime
and overtime payments per unit of productive activity performed. The
effective addressing of these issues -- to which GOZ and NRZ are committed



- 49 -
-- constitutes the major means of improving the contribution margins earned
per unit of service provided, i.e, of improving NRZ's profitability.
(iii) Fixed Cost Reduction: Under the project, NRZ will embark on a
major study of working systems in all departments with a primary objective
of deciding on an appropriate level of staffing for the system.
Implementation of the findings of this study -- scheduled to commence in
the second year of the project -- is currently anticipated to lead to a
reduction of about 2,500 in NRZ staff by 1996 for a total reduction of
about Z$ 34 million p.a. in labor costs at current wage rates.
(iv) Capital Restructuring: GOZ has recently adopted a capital
structure policy for NRZ (para 2.27). This policy will lead, in time, to a
significant rationalization of NRZ's capital structure and a much improved
matching of productive assets and their associated financing. It would
also reduce the volatility of its debt service obligations whilst ensuring,
through competitive onlending rates, that NRZ does not enjoy an effective
subsidy on its capital costs.
(v) Investment Screening: NRZ will subject all proposed investments
in excess of Z$ 100,000 to financial and economic screening by NRZ's
Corporate Planning Unit in conjunction with the AGM (Finance). The
investments incorporated in the project comprise all the major investments
planned for the next five years and are closely tied to a clearly defined
and comprehensive restructuring strategy. To reinforce prudence in
investment policy, agreement was reached with Government and NRZ during
negotiations that (a) NRZ's annual investment plan will be reviewed
annually with the Bank; (b) that NRZ will make revisions to such plans
taking into account any comments made by the Bank; and (c) that NRZ will
not in any fiscal year undertake investments outside of those included in
the plan, as reviewed with the Bank, costing in aggregate more than US$2.0
million equivalent without prior consultation with the Bank (paras 6.01
(xi) and 6.01 (xxi)).
(vi) Improved Working Capital Management: At over 115Z of its annual
usage of materials, NRZ's inventory levels are excessive. The high levels
of inventory reflect poor assessment of requirements, long lead times in
processing orders and in deliveries, uncertainties as to access to foreign
currency and considerable amounts of dead stock. The strengthening of
inventory management and maintenance planning already underway and that
will be supported under the project is expected to lead to significant
reductions both in this costly tie-up of working capital resources. NRZ
will take concerted actions to reduce the level of debtors which
historically has far exceeded what would have been dictated by its strict
compliance to its credit policy. The financial strategy provides implicit
incentives to NRZ to maximize the cash flow generated from its services.
However, to reinforce this incentive, agreement was reached with GOZ and
NRZ during negotiations that, by June 30, 1992, accounts receivables, net
of amounts outstanding from contiguous railways which are subject to
complex accounting reconciliations, should not exceed the equivalent of 45
days of annual revenues and that NRZ will provide to the Bank, semi-



- 50 -
annually, a status report on its accounts receivable (paras 6.01 (x) and
6.01 (xxiii)).
(vii) Tariff Increases: With implementation of the above restructuring
actions and policies, NRZ's cost structure will be relatively efficient.
To generate sufficient revenues to cover such costs and earn an acceptable
return on capital employed, GOZ has already announced its approval for and
NRZ has implemented increases in tariffs of 20% with effect from July 1,
1990 to be followed by another 202 increase in January 1991. Although the
proposed 1991 tariff increase is not necessary to protect NRZ's financial
position given efficient operations as agreed under the OIP and timely
implementation of the project, the additional cash flow it will generate
will add significantly to the potential amounts that could be distributed
to GOZ whilst not adding significantly to the delivered cost of most
commodities and not impairing NRZ's cost competitiveness. Specifically,
the tariff increases implemented to date and planned to be implemented will
increase the final per tonne prices of most commodities by between 0.52 and
5?, assuming that the full increases in tariffs are passed on to consumers.
Only in the cases of coal destined to farmers and granite are the expected
increases in final prices, at 41% and 49% respectively, substantial. The
increases in the final prices of these commodities reflect their relatively
low unit prices and the huge implicit rail transport subsidy currently
enjoyed by them. To protect NRZ's cash flow from erosion by cost increases
in its inputs and payroll outside of its control, GOZ will as part of its
framework, permit NRZ to increase its tariffs annually, at its commercial
discretion, to cover increases in its direct costs (para 2.24 (f)).
Financial Projections: The Impact of Restructuring Actions
4.05           The impact of the financial restructuring actions on NRZ's
prospective financial performance has been evaluated on the basis of three
scenarios: (a) with the project and the traffic projections made for the
project (full capacity); (b) with the project but assuming that traffic is
constrained to the without-project level; and (c) without the project and
without sustained implementation of the package of restructuring actions.
The traffic forecasts are summarized in Chapter IV and detailed in
Annex 5-2. A key feature of the projections is the assumption that, based
on the implementation profile for the project (para 3.28), no efficiency
gains will be realized in the first three years of the project.
Accordingly, NRZ's effective capacity is constrained to the pre-project
capacity for those years. The maximum projected traffic demand is realized
in 1997 with the progressive implementation of the restructuring actions
detailed in paras 4.03 (ii) to (iv) above. The projections also assume
that the proposed January, 1991 tariff increase of 20% is implemented.
Tariffs and operating costs are fully adjusted for inflation until the end
of project implementation. Other key assumptions used in the financial
projections are detailed in Annex 4-3.
4.06           The effect of the financial restructuring strategy in the
with-project and full capacity scenario is summarized in the table below
and detailed in Annex 4-3.



-  51  -
1991      1995      1997
(Z$ million)
Rail Revenues                       500       926       1081
Variable Costas Rail                228       305        353
Contribution Margins Rail           272       621        727
Other           5          7         7
Total         277       628        734
Fixed Costss                        247       327        348
Free Cash flow                      (38)      272        384
Debt Services                        84        74        100
Net Income:                         (25)      226        311
Dividend Distribution                 0         0        187
Return on Capital Employed            42       35%        26%
4.07           If all efficiency improvements are taken but traffic is
constrained to the levels achieved in 1988189, NRZ's projected financial
performance is summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 4-4.
1991      1995      1997
(Z$ million)
Rail Revenues                       500       800        883
Variable Costs: Rail                228       286        315
Contribution Margins Rail           272       514        568
Other           5          7         7
Total         277       521        575
Free Cash Flow                      (38)      169        234
Net Income                          (25)      101        126
Return on Capital Employed           42       212        152
4.08           Without implementation of a financial restructuring strategy
underpinned by a well structured program of efficiency improvements but
assuming tariff increases are implemented as assumed (para 4.04), NRZ's
financial performance is projected as follows:
1991      1995      1997
(ZS million)
Rail Revenues                       500       795        874
Contribution Margin: Rail           272       462        509
Other           5          7         7
Total         277       469        516
Free Cash Flow                      (38)       87        106
Net Income                          (25)       57         75
Return on Capital Employed           42       202        192
4.09           As the above tables and the related annexes indicate, NRZ's
financial performance will be dramatically transformed by full
implementation of the financial strategy. In particular, under the
assumption that 602 of NRZ's net profits are distributed to Government from
1996, cumulative cash transfers to Government in the form of dividend
payments will be about Z$ 900 million between 1996 and 2000. Even if



- 52 -
traffic is constrained under the project, NRZ's financial performance will
be fully satisfactory. Without the strategy, NRZ's financial performance
will be satisfactory but its financial viability will be wholly underpinned
by its ability to exploit its pricing power as a monopoly transport
provider for captive industries without the benefit of efficiency
improvements. The cost structure and traffic breakeven level of NRZ under
the three scenarios are illustrated in the table below:
NRZ's Prolected Cost Structure and Breakeven Level
(1997)
With Project    With Project
Without   & Constrained       & Full
Prolect     Traffic         Capacity
Rail Revenue/NTKM (Z$) aI/         0.162        0.164            0.162
Variable Costs/NTKM (Z$) bl        0.068        0.061            0.055
Contribution Margin/NTKM (Z$)      0.094        0.103            0.107
Fixed Costs (Z$ million) cl          409          344              348
Breakeven Traffic (million NTKM)    4351         3340             3252
Breakeven Traffic (1 of traffic)     81%          62%              49%
a/   Diffrence, in unit rivenuee  eflect differencee In aix of traffi;
b/ Fuel and maintenance costs for Ahunting lo otive  are defined as fully variable with traffic actlvity  however  in
practice thie variability Is limited; thi- accounts for the decline in unit variable easto in the iths-project and full
capacity  ompared to the with-project and ecstrained traffic came;
M/   Including depreiation.
4.10          Without the project, NRZ's variable costs per unit of
freight service performed are projected to be about 23% higher than with
the project with full achievement of the target operating efficiencies.
With the project and full realization of the projected operating
efficiencies but no growth in traffic, NRZ's operating income breakeven
traffic level (the level of traffic required to cover all operating costs)
will be about 3.3 billion NTKMs compared to 4.3 billion NTKMs without the
project. With such an efficient cost structure, NRZ would have required a
tariff increase of about 40% in 1989190 in order not to have needed any
subsidies from Government.  In contrast, with its current (fiscal year 1989
adjusted for pay awards) cost structure, NRZ would have required increases
in its tariffs of an estimated 80% to achieve overall profit breakeven.
The difference in tariff requirements is in effect an inefficiency charge
on users.
Financial Projections: Risks
4.11          Three types of risks are attached to NRZ's ability to
implement the financial restructuring strategy:
(a)  Endogenous Organizational Risks: These risks relate to the
likelihood that NRZ management may not be able to effect the
changes in operational practices that underpin the volume gains



- 53 -
and cost reductions that are the pivotal elements of the financial
strategy;
(b)   Operating Environment Risks: The significant business risk facing
the strategy is that the traffic projections may not materialize
not because of restrictions on NRZ's capacity but because of
adverse macroeconomic conditions and specific industrial or
sectoral problems not anticipated in the forecasting process; and
(c)   Regulatory Risks: NRZ management may not sense the freedom, in
actuality, to exercise the powers in the framework to undertake
the full measures to restructure its costs and to ensure that its
cash flows are not eroded by inflation or the willingness or
ability of major customers to settle their bills for services
rendered on a timely basis.
4.12           During appraisal, these risks were evaluated in detail by
GOZ, NRZ and the Bank. NRZ has already changed its organizational
structure to render it more adaptive to the requirements of the new
performance expectations. The project will provide support to strengthen
the capacity of management and NRZ's capacity to train its work force. GOZ
has outlined a performance monitoring framework for NRZ that should ensure
that pressure on NRZ to perform effectively is maintained and impediments
to such performance outside the control of NRZ management are resolved
expeditiously. These measures are considered adequate to insure against
the endogenous organizational risks. Since appraisal, NRZ has consistently
done better than most of the key operatingefficiency targets agreed under
the short-term (interim) phase of the OIP.
4.13           In relation to the operating environment risks, the primary
concern is that if the projected traffic does nct materialize, NRZ will be
left with project assets that could not be productively employed. This
would have two effects: (a) it would leave NRZ with debt service
obligations on assets that make no contribution to its cash generation; and
(b) it would reduce the pressure on NRZ to utilize its assets effectively.
To address this risk, the traffic forecasts were carefully reviewed on a
sector-by-sector basis during appraisal and are considered to be
conservative. To reinforce this conservatism, it has been assumed for
purposes of the financial analysis that NRZ's effective capacity will be
constrained to the 1988189 level between 1990191 and 1992/93 thereby
effectively leaving between 0.7 billion and 0.8 billion NTKMs of traffic
unsatisfied and the projections of NRZ's ability to meet fully the traffic
on demand (its effective capacity under the project) lagged by 2 years from
199411995 to 1996197. If this lagged effective capacity is realized, there
will be no redundancy of project assets. If NRZ's operating performance is
satisfactory but traffic remains constrained to the 1988/89 level,
locomotive assets provided under the project will be redundant (Annex 3-
2). However, this will not adversely affect NRZ's financial performance
given the favorable impact of operating cost reductions on NRZ's traffic
breakeven level (para 4.07). The residual concern is then the extent to
which this asset redundancy would affect NRZ's operating efficiency. GOZ



- 54 -
and NRZ are fully aware of this concern, but believe that it will be
substantially mitigated by GOZ's strong commitment to an effective system
for the monitoring and control of NRZ's operating performance. To further
safeguard against the adverse Impact of redundant assets on operating
performance, during negotiations, agreement was reached with GOZ and NRZ
that, as part of the annual operations and financial plan exercise to be
undertaken during project implementation, NRZ will provide the Bank for its
comment the expected size and disposition of any operational assets
(locomotives and wagons) projected to be surplus to its requirements during
the year (para 3.35).
4.14           A specific and significant traffic risk is that the
petroleum pipeline extension project (Feruka to Harare) will materialize
(para 1.16). Although petroleum products traffic accounts for only 6% of
NRZ's projected traffic in 1997, revenues from this source are projected to
account for 142 of total NRZ rail freight revenues. The estimated net
effect of the loss of such traffic is a reduction in cash generation from
operation of about 101 of gross operating cash flows. This risk is thus
material but not particularly profound for the project's financial
viability. However, the loss of this traffic will render 8 new locomotives
redundant. Under such circumstances there will only be an economic
justification for 17 new locomotives (including provision for operational
flexibility). To minimize this risk, agreement was reached with GOZ during
negotiation that procurement of locomotives will be tranched with an
initial order of 17 locomotives to be followed by the additional eight (8)
locomotives if justified by more certain traffic prospects. Any
procurement action in relation to the additional eight locomotives will be
initiated only after approval by the Bank (para 6.01 (xxiv)). This
agreement has been endorsed by USAID, the cofinancier for the mainline
locomotives in the project. USAID plans to cover the financing of the
second tranche of locomotives, if they are required and subject to
satisfactory performance of NRZ, through a further appraisal aud amendment
of the grant agreement with Zimbabwe.
4.15           Finally, with respect to the regulatory risks, Government is
committed to ensuring that its framework for NRZ operates effectively.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on actions to be
taken to ensure the smooth and sustainable working of the elements of the
framework (paras 2.27 and 6.02 (i) - 6.02 (ii)). Some of these actions
have already been effected.
C. Financial Proiections: Financial Rates of Return
Base Case
4.16           The base case financial returns to the project are
summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 4-3.



- 55 -
Base Case Financial Returns
Base Case
Financial Rate of Return (%)                    50
Net Present Value (NPV) Q 10% (Z$ million)    639
The base case financial rate of return (FRR) is based on NRZ's free cash
flow generation assuming the project's efficiency objectives and the
projected traffic are realized. The base case return, at 50%, is good.
4.17           Conceptually, the base case FRY can be partitioned into two
components: (a) the effect of the restructuring actions to be supported by
the project on NRZ's cash flow generation assuming no growth in traffic;
and (b) the impact of the project on both NRZ's unit operating costs and
effective capacity. If traffic is constrained to the "without project"
level, the project's main effect would be on improving NRZ's management of
its operations. The major operating assets to be procured under the
project would be redundant under these circumstances. However, the FRR at
23% would still be satisfactory, indicating the crucial nature of the
management improvement component of the restructuring strategy and project.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.18           The main risks faced by the project are outlined in paras
4.08 to 4.11 above. The breakeven analys4,s (para 4.07) and the PRR with
constrained traffic indicate that the project financial returns are robust
to declines in the projected traffic levels. This robustness depends on
the operating efficiency objectives of the project being met and the
consequential savings in operating costs being realized. To test for the
sensitivity of the project base case financial returns to reduced operating
efficiency, achievement of the performance targets was lagged by three
years to the end of the project implementation period. The results of this
sensitivity analysis are summarized below and detailed in Annex 4-6:
Sensitivity Analysis
FRR   NPV (10%)
(2) (Z$ million)
Base Results                 50        639
Delayed Efficiency
Improvements                 21        307
4.19           The large erosion in project returns indicated by the
analysis points to two key lessons (a) that close attention needs to be
paid to the endogenous organizational risks during project implementation;
and (b) that GOZ, in its role as both regulator and owner of NF.Z, must
continue to apply pressure for effective performance from NRZ management.



_ 56 -
To address the former risk, the formulation of the project pays close
attention to the need for close monitoring and review of the performance of
NR? and that of the management and supervisory development teams, whose
success will be crucial in enabling NRZ to realize and sustain the planned
improvements in operations.   Annex 6 presents the proposed Bank
supervision plan during project implementation.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic Forecasts
5.01           Summary details of NRZ's recent traffic performance are
given in Annex 5-1. The projections of demand for rail transport have been
made using a commodity-by-commodity approach. This is similar to the
method used by the Government Railway Traffic Estimates Committee (RTEC),
(the body, comprising NRZ and relevant ministries, that coordinates
sectoral forecasts of demand for rail transport), although the results were
significantly different for a number of key commodities. These differences
were largely caused by: market changes since the last set of questionnaires
were returned by users; critical examination of the capacity expansion
plans forecast by some of the major users; and the elimination of
inconsistencies and/or over-estimates which tend to creep into user-driven
forecasting systems. Also, the projected traffic exclude individual
commodity movements of less than 100 tonnes from any given origin and NRZ's
movements of its own supplies. These tonnages are included in the RTEC's
forecasts.
5.02           Twelve major commodities were analyzed, representing 682 of
the revenue-earning non-transit traffic recorded in 1988-89. Transit
traffic was considered separately and has been projected to stay constant
at the 1989 level with no significant adverse competitive factors
anticipated. Based on this analysis (Annex 5-2), demand for rail transport
in Zimbabwe is forecast to be 14.7 million tonnes in 1990-91, rising to
16.2 million tonnes in 1994-95, compared to the actual amount of traffic
carried in 1988-89 of 12.7 million tonnes on an adjusted basis. The
equivalent figures for net tonne-kilometers, taking account of expected
changes in the pattern of traffic, are 6.1 billion in 1990-91 rising to 6.7
billion in 1994-95, compared to 5.4 billion of revenue traffic in 1988-89.
5.03           These forecasts are lower than the "1989 Traffic Estimates"
of the RTEC, mainly because of different forecasts for Coal, Maize and
Sugar and the adjustments for below-100 tonnes traffic. The official
estimates regularly overshoot the actual out-turn, although they are
achieving steadily greater accuracy. The last two years have seen a marked
improvement, with an overestimate of less than 10% f r the one-year-out
forecast.



- 57 -
B. Prolect Benefits and Costs
5.04           The project has been designed as an integrated package of
operational improvements, capital investments, institutional reforms and
financial restructuring. Since many of the benefits which emanate from
these various components are not susceptible to precise quantification, the
following approach has been adopted in assessing the project's economic
return. The costs of all project components have been included in the
analysis, while the quantification of benefits has focused on two key
effects of the project (to which all components contribute), viz. an
increase in NRZ's capacity and the quantifiable reduction in variable
operating costs as a result of the expected improvements in operating
practices and investments. As a result of the capacity increase, traffic
which would otherwise have to go by road (at best) will be able to go by
rail; whilst the effect of improved operations would be the reduction of
the economic cost of rail transport for existing traffic.
5.05           Based on the Bank implementation profile for projects in
this sector, it is likely that there will not be sufficient progress in the
implementation of the project in the initial three years to lead to an
increase in NRZ's effective capacity (revenue traffic carried).
Accordingly, it is assumed for purposes of the economic and financial
evaluation that NRZ's effective capacity will stay constant at the 1988/89
level up to 1992193. In 1993/94, it is assumed that NRZ's effective
capacity would be equal to the projected level of demand for 1991/92.
Thereafter, NRZ's effective capacity lags the underlying projected demand
for rail transport by two years. NRZ will attain the maximum projected
traffic only from 1996197 onwards. This assumption is considered
sufficiently conservative.
5.06           Without the project, operational modelling of the system's
performance indicates that aru-ual revenue traffic could not grow beyond the
adjusted 5.4 billion net tonne-kilometers achieved in 1988-89, given that
NRZ would reach the ceiling of locomotives that RSA can make available to
it for hire (Annex 3-2). Under these circumstances, the projected
incremental traffic would either go by road or not at all. There may be
certain situations where private sector producers see their profit margins
eroded by the higher financial cost of road transport and therefore scale
back production. In these instances, it is assumed that the economic cost
to the country of the lost production is greater than the additional road
transport costs (in economic terms) would have been. Consequently, the
appropriate counter-factual assumes that all incremental traffic would go
by road, if it were not able to go by rail.
5.07           The economic costs of road transport in Zimbabwe are
estimated to be Z$ 0.115 per net tonne-kilometer, which includes vehicle
operating costs and certain road maintenance and rehabilitation costs (i.e.
accounting for both variable and semi-fixed costs). In contrast, the long-
run variable economic costs of rail transport are about Z$ 0.037 per net
tonne-kilometer under the project and about Z$ 0.046 without the project.
The semi-fixed costs of carrying the incremental traffic by rail (such as



- 58 -
new locomotives) are iacluded in the project costs.  The project's savings
are therefore Z$ 0.09 per net tonne-kilometer. Further details on the
estimation of road transport costs are given i.3 Annex 5-3. The projections
of rail transport costs are based on the analysis of NRZ's operating cost
structure, converted to economic costs (Annexes 4-3 to 4-5).
5.08           There are several quantifiable benefits which have not been
included in the analysis of the project's economic return. Their omission
clearly makes the analysis more conservative. The most prominent of these
benefits is the likely cost savings from reduced shuntings which would
occur if operating practices are changed or improved. Further, the OIP
will improve the management of railway operations through devices such as
the Train Briefing Book and an upgraded wagon tracking system.
Organizational change effected under this and the ongoing project will lead
immediately to more focused area management and in the long run to greater
breadth in the senior management ranks. Greater depth will be ensured by
specialized training aimed specifically at senior management.
Institutional changes will lead to NRZ receiving greater support from
Government, except in the form of subsidies, which will be eliminated as a
result of the financial restructuring of NRZ.  Finally, to the extent that
Improved operating practices and systems reduce the occurrence of crises
(such as the complete congestion experienced in October-November 1989), the
large one-off costs to the economy of the lost production which often
ensues from such crises will be avoided.
5.09           Project costs include estimated base costs plus physical
contingencies and exclude duties and taxes. Foreign exchange costs,
representing 612 of total project costs, have been shadow priced by
applying a factor of 1.5 to the assumed exchange rate of Z$ 2.3 to US$1.
C. Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
5.10           The economic returns to the project, are summarized below and
detailed in Annex 5-3.



- 59 -
Proiect Economic Returns
Economic Rate of Return Net Present Value (10%)
(Z)                (Z$ million)
Base Case                             20                      361
Sensitivity Analvses
(a) Project Cost Up:
(i) 10%                              18                       315
(ii) 20%                              17                       269
(b) Traffic: Growth
(i) Down 10%                         19                       305
(ii) Down 50%                         13                        84
(c) Benefits Delayed: 3 Years            13                      108
(d) Road/Rail Costs Difference:
(i) Down 10%                         19                       305
(ii) Down 50%                          13                       84
(e) Combination: a(i)+b(i)+d(i)          16                      209
The base case economic return (ERR), at 20%, is satisfactory.  The
sensitivity analyses indicate that the ERR is robust to adverse out-turns
in key variables (see also page 3 of Annex 5-3).
5.11           To test further the sensitivity of the project's economic
returns to possible adverse outcomes, an analysis of the switching values
of key variables affecting the project's viability was undertaken.
Switching values indicate the extent to which the variables can increase or
decline in value before the project net present value falls to z.ro at a
given discount rate. In this case, a discount rate of 10% was used as a
benchmark for the project's economic viability. The switching values for
key variables are shown in the table below:
Switching Values of Key Variables
Traffic Growth (2 of Base)                              35%
Road/Rail Savings (X of Base)                           35%
Road Transport Costs (2 of Base)                        56%
Rail Transport Costs (2 of Base)                       177%
Project Costs (X of Base)                              178%
The switching value analysis confirms the robustness of the project's
economic returns.
5.12           Differences between the base case ERR and FRR reflect the
relative distribution of the economic benefits of the project between NRZ
and its customers and differences in the valuation of net benefits. The
significant source of difference between the financial and economic
evaluation are as follows: (a) valuation of foreign costss the ERR takes
account of the implicit overvaluation of the Zimbabwe dollar; (b) passenger
services: the economic analysis does not attribute any benefits to the
investment in coaches whilst taking the related costs of operation and



- 60 -
incremental capital assets into account; in contrast, the financial
analysis assumes that passenger transport fares are increased sufficiently
to recover the incremental cost of investment in the service; (c) fixed
cost reduction: the economic analysis takes account only of the increase in
NRZ's capacity and the reduction in variable operating costs as a result of
the project with no account taken of the structural change in NRZ's fixed
costs as a result of the proposed organizational and operational changes to
be effected under the project; the savings in manpower costs arising from
these proposed changes have been captured in the financial analysis. The
difference in the NPV of the benefit streams for both evaluations is
marginal if adjustments are made for the differences identified above. This
indicates that virtually all the quantifiable economic benefits of the
project are captured by NRZ. However, NRZ's financial performance under
the project is expected to be sufficiently good to enable it to
redistribute part of the benefits to its customers (through price
reductions) or to Government (through paying out part of its surplus as
dividends) without adversely affecting its financial position.
D. Electrification Component
5.13           The project's electrification component has been analyzed
separately to determine its optimality. As described in Chapter III, the
project includes the electrification of the Harare-Mt. Hampden and the
Harare-Msasa sections, so that the electrification of the Dabuka-Harare
section can be rationalized. The main benefits arise from: (i) lower
running costs (crew and electricity use); and (ii) avoidance of unnecessary
changes of engine and reconfiguration of trains for those loads which could
go straight through from Dabuka to Msasa or to Mt. Hampden and vice-versa,
with consequent savings in shunting costs and increased wagon utilization.
The full costs of the electrification component have been included in the
overall evaluation but only cost savings arising from the substitution of
electric locomotives for diesel locomotives on the Lochinvar to Mt. Hampden
section have been taken into account. The cost savings from reduced
shunting and wagon delays and use of electric locomotives between Harare
and Msasa have not been captured in the analysis.
5.14           The economic return of electrifying the Harare-Mt. H_mpden
section is estimated to be about 20%, while the return from electrifying
the Harare-Msasa section is estimated to be about 28%. This compares to
financial rates of return of 19% and 29% respectively. Details of these
analyses are available in the project file.
E. Passenaer Coaches Component
5.15           NRZ operates two pairs of express passenger trains on a
daily basis between Harare and Bulawayo (477 km), one pair daily between
Bulawayo and Victoria Falls (470 km) and another pair of daily express
trains between Harare and Mutare (279 km). Up until June 1989, an
international service to Botswana and RSA was operated on a daily basis
between Bulawayo and major cities in Botswana and RSA in cooperation with
SAR and Botswana Railways. This service is now operated by Botswana



- 61 -
Railways and SAR with NRZ providing trackage rights for the Zimbabwean
segment. As part of the trackage arrangement, Botswana Railways and SAR
also provide domestic passenger services between Bulawayo and Plumtree, the
major town on the Zimbabwe border with Botswana. The coverage of the
passenger network has been progressively reduced through the 1980s to
eliminate all operations on the branch lines and the operation of slow
trains on the mainline. Passenger traffic has nonetheless grown
significantly from 1.6 million passengers in 1980/81 to a peak of 3.1
million in 1988/89 (Annex 1), a growth rate of 8.9% p.a. Passenger
ridership declined to 2.9 million in 1989/90, largely as a result of the
transfer of capacity to the international operations of Botswana Railways
and SAR. With no new investment in coaching stock and declining
availabilty of the existing stock, coach occupancy rates, which averaged
about 65% in the early 1980s, are now reportedly close to 100%. The growth
in ridership can be accounted for by two factors. Firstly, until December,
1989, :.4trols on passenger fares have been relatively more stringent than
on bus fares. By November, 1989, fares between major urban centres on
ordinary (slow) buses were between 50% and 60% higher than on the
comparatively more comfortable railways economy class. Secondly, as NRZ
reduced its service coverage, the quality of service between the major
centres served improved markedly to the point where transit times on the
densest route (Harare - Bulawayo) are comparable to those by road. Given
this latter factor, the recent increases in railways passenger fares (total
increases in economy class fares of 54% since December, 1989) have had no
significant impact on overall ridership.
5.16           As noted in Chapter III, the proposed investment in coaching
stock is to replace part of the existing coaching fleet that will be
overaged and structurally inadequate for operations over the next five
years. An economic evaluation of the proposed investment has been
undertaken on the basis of the assessment of the relative economic costs of
investment in new coaches compared to service provision by road transport.
Details of the assessment are in Annex 5-4. The analysis is based on NRZ's
average passenger haul of 420 km. The operating costs of NRZ's passenger
services are based on the financial projections for 1990191 whilst those
for road transport are based on data from the NTS, as periodically updated
by MOT. The analysis of NRZ's overall operating performance indicates that
with improved efficiency in freight operations, no new locomotives are
required for the existing level of traffic ('reight and passengers).
Accordingly, only the present value of the future replacement cost of
locomotives assigned to the passenger services are taken into account in
the assessment of the capital costs of the passenger services' operations.
For purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that the steam locomotives
currently assigned to passenger services between Bulawayo and Victoria
Falls will be replaced in 1995. Based on their current age and condition,
it is assumed that the electric and diesel locomotives assigned to the
passenger services will not be replaced for 4.nother 20 years. The
operating costs for the passenger services used in the analysis do not take
account of the efficiency gains that should lead to lower overall operating
costs that are expected under the project.



- 62 -
5.17           The economic evaluation shows that, at a discount rate of
102, the long-run Incremental cost (per passenger-km) of the railways'
passenger services is, at Zc 2.4, about 28Z less than the unit economic
cost of provision of passenger services by road transport (Zc 3.3) over
comparable distances. Even if the productivity of buses on inter-city
routes was 50% higher than the current levels (100,000 km p.a), the long-
run incremental cost of the railways' passenger services would still be
about 102 cheaper. The proposed replacement investment in coaches is thus
economically sound.
F. Proiect Risks
5.18           The project faces four main risks: first, the traffic growth
may not materialize as projected; second, operational improvements may not
be achieved; third, the project's institutional arrangements may not be
sustainable; and fourth, as in all projects, there may be cost over-runs
and/or delays. As the switching values analysis has demonstrated, traffic
growth must decline to about 35% of the projected amount before the project
has a zero NPV. This decline would result in revenue traffic in 1996-97 of
about 5.8 billion net tonne-kilometer. The projected increased demand from
the thermal power stations after the expected completion of the
refurbishment program in December, 1992 alone accounts for the incremental
traffic that is required to meet this target.
5.19           Even if the demand for rail transport is present, it is
possible that NRZ will be unable to carry it all if operational
improvements are not achieved. To combat this problem, technical
assistance has been focused more sharply on senior management and on
certain technical areas where the need is greatest. Furthermore, the
project includes a number of concrete enhancements to NRZ's operating
practices, such as a Train Brief Book, a computerized wagon tracking system
and a new organizational structure with an emphasis on area management. In
the case of NRZ being able to go beyond the efficiency performance targets
that have been set, there is also a risk of redundancy of locomotives. The
procurement arrangements for locomotives are sufficiently flexible to
safeguard against this eventuality. The third risk concerns the
sustainability of institutional changes brought about by the project. In
this regard, Government's commitment to a revamped regulatory framework is
clear and this risk is believed to be acceptable.
5.20           Finally, there is the risk of project delay or cost over-
run. In this case, the risks should be acceptable. As the sensitivity
analysis has shown, the project's ERR is not very susceptible to cost
overruns. In any event, the likelihood of either delay or cost over-run
occurring to a significant degree is slim, given the fact that civil works
make up less than 3% of project costs, the implementation profile is
conservative and the price estimates for the major expenditure item, the
locomotives, are based on information from a recent tender.



- 63 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01           During negotiations, the following agreements were reached
withs
GOZ:
(i) that NRZ be set an explicit financial goal of a rate of return on
its total capital employed at the beginning of its fiscal year of
4X for Fiscal Year 1991 and that, in each Fiscal Year thereafter,
NRZ be set a rate of return on its total capital employed to be
determined by GOZ in consultation with the Bank (para 2.25);
(ii) operating performance targets for NRZ (para 2.29);
(iii) that passenger fares will be increased each fiscal year by
amounts sufficient to enable NRZ to generate adequate additional
revenues to cover the amortisation of coaches procured during
such fiscal year; and that the passenger services' revenues and
attributable costs will be accounted for and disclosed separately
from NRZ's other activities in NRZ's annual accounts (par& 3.09);
(iv) the implementation schedule for the project (para 3.28);
(v) the financing plan for the project (para 3.30);
(vi) the terms on all project debt including the basis under which the
proposed Bank loan would be on-lent (para 3.30);
(vii) the procurement arrangements for Bank-financed project components
(paras 3.31 and 3.32);
(viii) the operations of the special account for the disbursement of the
proposed Bank loan (para 3.33);
(ix) that, no later than March 31, 1991, the Board of NRZ will prepare
a statement on its dividend distribution policy to be adopted by
it after taking into account coments by GOZ and the Bank (pars
4.03);
(x) that NRZ's accounts receivables, excluding r'ceivables on
contiguous railways' accounts, at each of itt fis^al year ends
shal;, not exceed 45 days and that a report on the status of
accounts receivables will be provided to the Bank semi-annually
during project implementation (pare 4.04 (vi));
(xi) that (a) NRZOs annual investment plan will be reviewed annually
with the Bank; (b) that NRZ will make revisions to such plans
taking Into account any comments made by the Bank; and (c) that



- 64 -
NRZ will not in any fiscal year undertake investments outside of
those included in the plan, as reviewed with the Bank, costing in
aggregate more than US$2.0 million without prior consultation
with the Bank (para 4.04 (v));
NRZ:
(xii) the OIP program and the operating performance targets (para
2.29);
(xiii) that, no later than March 31, 1991, NRZ shall prepare and submit
to Government and the Bank, programs and implementation
timetables for the scrapping and disposal of locomotives and
wagons; and that scrapping and disposal programs and timetables
satisfactory to Government and the Bank will be adopted and
implemented by NRZ (paras 3.04 and 3.08);
(xiii) that passenger fares will be increased each fiscal year by
amounts sufficient to enable NRZ to generate adequate additional
revenues to cover the amortization of coaches procured during
such fiscal year; and that the passenger services' revenues and
attributable costs will be accounted for and disclosed separately
from NRZ's other activities in NRZ's annual accounts (para 3.09);
(xiv) the implementation schedule for the project (para 3.28);
(xv) the procurement arrangements for Bank-financed project components
(paras 3.31 and 3.32);
(xvi) the operations of the special account for the disbursement of the
proposed Bank loan (para 3.33);
(xvii) that NRZ will provide to the Bank, no later than one month after
the end of each fiscal year, projections of its requirements to
hire locomotives and wagons, its intended disposition of any
operational assets surplus to its requirements and its operating
costs and revenues based on explicit performance targets and
manpower and locomotive fleet restructuring actions to be
effected during the year (para 3.35);
(xviii) that NRZ will submit to the Bank, no later than six months after
its year end, audited annual entity and project accounts and the
auditor's management Letter including an opinion on the operation
of the Special Account (para 3.36);
(xix) that, na later than March 31, 1991, the Board of NRZ will prepare
a statement on its dividend distribution policy to be adopted by
it after taking into account comments by GOZ and the Bank (para
4.03);



- 65 -
(xx) that (a) NRZ's annual investment plan will be reviewed annually
with the Bank; (b) that NRZ will make revisions to such plans
taking into account any comments made by the Bank; and (c) that
NRZ will not in any fiscal year undertake investments outside of
those included in the plan, as reviewed with the Bank, costing in
aggregate more than US$2.0 million without prior consultation
with the Bank (para 4.04 (v));
(xxi) that NRZ will provide, no later than six months after completion
of the project, its contribution to the project completion report
in a form satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.34);
(xxii) that NRZ's accounts receivables, excluding receivables on
contiguous railways' accounts, at each of its fiscal year ends
shall not exceed 45 days and that a report on the status of
accounts receivables will be provided to the Bank semi-annually
during project implementation (para 4.04 (vi)).
(xxiii) that procurement action with respect to the eight locomotives
that would be required for oil movements between Feruka and
Harare be initiated only with the approval of the Bank (para
4.14).
6.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOZ on the
following conditions of effectiveness:
(i) that Government has taken all actions required to implement all
the substantive provisions of the Framework for NRZ Operations
(para 2.27);
(ii) that NRZ's tariffs for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1990
have been adjusted in accordance with the relevant provisions of
the Framework for NRZ Operations (para 2.27);
(iii) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
NRZ covering the on-lending terms for the proposed Bank Loan to
Zimbabwe (para 3.30).
6.03      Based on the above agreements reached, the project is suitable
for a Bank Loan to Zimbabwe of US$38.6 million on standard terms to be
onlent to NRZ.



STill APPRI153L UBlOR'?
SZCOD RAILAiY ?ROTJECT
SELECTED OPERATIONAL STATISTICS
I.     IUFRSIrNUCT , STAFF
TIV  PCUER AS Stl QCLLIU TOCK-                   UYI1       uia                    I         !1I         ufl&     au        un        FM
Route - KM                                      3,394      3,394       3.394      3,394     3.394      3,394    3,394      3,394     3,394
Traeck - KM                                     4,286      4,286       4,286      4,286     4,286      4,286    4,286      4,286     4,286
mAter of Staff                                 19,79      20,149      20,112     19.530    19,651      19.444   17,838 if 17,408    17,170
Electric Locomotives     * Oned                                                       9        27          30       30        30        30
- On LIne                                                   8         24         28       27        28         29
- Aveltoble                                                 S         13         iS       18        21         22
D1esel Locootives       - Owed                   275        283         325        322       318         313      307       307       .8
-On Line                218         192        220        240        243        229      222       192        188
- Availatle             128         111        151        169        164        144      122       102        97
stem Locotives           -        Oaed            134        131         130         96        94         92        92        92        80
- OnLine                 72          84         88         87         82         76       73        ?8        75
- Available              37         42          41         36        32          32       31        31        29
PassunWr Coawe    -         O  ed                 356        352        352         353       390         381      361       540       322
- Available             293         262        260        240        297        258      240       240        220
Freight w*a                Owwd 2              12,979     13,05T      13,174     12,949    t2.999      12,721   12,540    12,300    12,147
- Avaltlo            12,250      12,283     12,327     12.147    12,110      11,739   11,286    11.070    10,932
11.     TlUFflC
No. of Passengers ('000)                        1.580      1,825      2,050       2,218    2,471       2,713    3,104      2,740     3,126
Freight Tomes ('000) A                         13,909     13,316     13,856      14,125    13,662     14,045   13,903    13,626    13,614
Freight Net Trame Ks (10')                      6,611      6,259      6,289       6,412     6,202      6,573    5,932      5,569     5,287
/1      Redution due to separation of Botwane System.
I/      Includes specialized wagons of ZISC0.                                                                                                               
l       Includes railway service freight and psrcels.



8TAff APPRAZ  EB1OR
SECOOD RDIUIY P303C!
SELECTED OPERTIONAL STATISTICS
111       fiR        flM       fUM       fill       fMl    f          fil       FYN
Itl.   OSRATIhG EFFICtECIES:
Locomitive Availability (%)
Electrie                                                64.0      5S.6      55.4    67.2       73.0     74.2
Diesel                  58.6       S5.8      6.8        70.3      67.5       62.9    54.9      53.0     51.6
Stem                    S1.0       50.0      46.6       41.6      3B.6      42.0    42.1       40.0     37.5
Wagon AvalabilIty (X)                          94.0      94.0       93.6       93.8      93.2      93.2    92.0       90.0     90.0
Lcoet1ve Utilizatifn
(Looo KajLocmstvSe In Use/Day)
Electrc                  *-                            331       343        420     447       331      325
Diesel n.A.                       378       320        281       275        305     291       292      294
Stem                   337        222       208        249       264        268     264       282       282
net TOMe KwHagon Dayow                       1.501      1,421      1,421     1.269     1,221      1,251    1.157    t,046      936
Staff Prodaetivity
C'OOO UtboEeployw/Year)                        334       311        313        328      316        338      333      31?       308
0a
Bas8 ed an all uasons Inel4ding fofeln ralt""y magers an the systes, except for FYtS-FY8 Wwen it mgs bssd an oswwrsip.                         t4



- 67 -
ANNEX 2-1
page 1 of 2
IDOAMI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SZCOD RAILWAYS PROJECT
Weaknesses in NRZ Traffic O2erations
1.        Detailed studies of NRi's operations have identified specific
areas of weaknesses in NRZ's operations and the potential for greater
utilisation of existing assetst
(a) Locomotive utilisation: NRZ currently utilises available
locomotives for only about 60S of the time for which they are
available and this ratio is a significant improvement over
recent years when it has been as low as 502. Although data on
the time utilisation is systematically collected, no analysis of
the data is undertaken. Consultants undertook a detailed work
sampling study to identify the causes of locomotive idleness
when made available to traffic. The detailed observations at
yards and on line indicate that most of the loss of productivo
time can be avoided by more intensive supervision of yard
operations (252 of observed loss of time could not be attributed
to any operational cause by yard staff), minor investment in
fuelling facilities in yards to avoid trips to depots (122 of
observed loss of time) and improved scheduling of trains (about
202 of lost time due to line not clear).
(b) Wa*on controls NRZ serves a large number of sidings developed by
its customers. The charges for service to these sidings do not
discriminate between the size of the sidipgs and their distance
from the serving major yards and have provided an incentive for
the proliferation of many small sidings at variable distanoes
from the main yards as well as the development of subyards by
NRZ to better serve clusters of remote sidings. There is no
effoective system for monitoring the disposition of wagons once
detached from trains and despatched to consignees sidings. Lack
of such control Is a major contributory cause to undue detention
of wagons and decreased wagon productivity on line service. A
secondary effect is that it also inhibits rational planning for
formation of trains which contributes to suboptimal use of
motive power.
(e) Train utilisations a number of factors adversely affect the
officient utilisation of trains thereby limiting the systems
effective capacitys
* ,wtaon loadings recent studies have indicated that highsided
wagons (812 of NRZ general purpose wagon fleet) are, on
average, loaded to only 802 of their potential carrying
capacity whilst dropsided wagons are loaded to 902 of their
potential eapacity. This practice, which reflects lack of
adequate control over the appropiate matching of
commodities to wagon types and tariffs not sensitive to



-68 -
ANNEX 2-1
page 2 of 2
underutilisation of capital assets, leads to suboptimal
utillsation of the tractive effort of productive
locomotives end a corresponding increase in unit carrying
costs.
load variations: efficient train movements on the NRZ
system are constrained by a large number of differential
trailing loads over numerous sections of the track. These
trailing load restrictions reflect variations in the
topography of the sytem but, more importantly, variations
in the tractive capacity of the locomotive fleet assigned
to various segments of th. system. The need to reduce or
enhance train loads to meet traction and track
differentials leads to a combination of underloaded trains
and underexploitation of the capacity of operational assets
and undue delays and detention of wagons and loads at
numerous change points. These costs can be avoided by more
rational assignment of locomotives to different streams of
traffic and Imposition of uniform load requirements on the
system.
(c)  crew utilisation: NRZ operates goods trains to timetable with
crew rosters tied to the published timetable. Crews are paid
exclusively on the basis of hours worked and can book-off with
full pay after four hours of awaiting the departure of their
timetabled trains. This system cannot work in conditions of
undue detentions of locomotives and wagons at yards and frequent
detentions of trains on line caused by signal and locomotive
failures. It also has the added deficiency of inbuilt
incentives to delay. The existing crewing practice results in a
combination of high costs of operation, running of a lesser
number of trains than possible or of shorter trains.
(d) Traffic management: a detailed review of the distribution of
rail traffic indicates that about 60S of this traffic,
representing about 200 individual movements of commodities
between various points on the NRZ system, can be organised in
block trains and not be subject to sorting and detention at
intermediate yards and terminals. However, only iron ore and
coal traffic for ZISCO, accounting for 152 of total revenue
traffic, is organised on this basis. The current predominant
method of traffic management, which requires aggregation of
loads for different destinations and sorting and marshalling en-
route, thereby subjecting traffic to the other constraints on
the efficiency of NRZ operations, accounts for much of the
underutilisation of NRZ's haul capacity.



_                    1        hk    SClt    e;:t       Ut   r    Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t *'It  U4- 11#11h .SJW
_ ^                               ;6~~~~~~~~Is  ia'   tS4.  .ti:   i*IIK    9:   vv   a   c#  3w, 3fl4it
*      4,,                                                 m* w^            u.b .1t    :        ..  ?.  *t.t
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o O     Ul        1t1   tt@1      *:.    Ih    X        :       t 
-   NIM                                           It-      41.    al,      tgI      40   t    IU. C    ((         _  
w .                                                        w        Kit    VW      c               9,Su Of    13 3zt Om
e@                                          01        334"    4461   l"       1    36   .i:  1i  t5  iniu3aSu
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~3-                    tsa    ts IM           Ulft  el   X   i        is    'OsiS on sea
EL t  t-  MlW-           C till    oi   1    to    9  9U 'wit ou1s a W
S   p, . 61-  "16        4"     6803    K X         Is  VA       am 1) la)
mK*      U-    LIla      WI    Ku    n    it   I   o1i                  IMa
41-    Ill    0141     1363     19    u    *8   66  368             s 
W        S      W6       1    tto   0    lot  6ea11    *tSi )   m
OK       a0    k66       SU    CM  ,        4     ml 68  164s8    )   am
Si-      W0     am       00        8    ll 4       U   oile *0        wMO
008-    146     no*      UK      a*    a    ltu    SI                 U5U
Si       itl    u        M U     hat         to   66   8 Uaeos
00-     -*               ont   kV       U    6*   a    II      0m1m sISIa
66K     84.     iS       OS      KU    46  n8   49 rsi  ii 
48-    11-    UK         iR      WU     U    id    3       S    mm ie saw
611_
836     045      6*     8ut       04      U         8  * I b     *     _)U5
SW      dI      dl        *     0             141    I  is 20UUn wSee
os      18      us       i        s    u    #.   a   is    _m ot
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              s       M        u    a  nu           Kg          SA   1 1 *_1
up      141a    "a 9I            65    3            of Wt  Usuw $s,   tls
M86     04 01            lS 511 au gm M              I  as6   (wubI3iUie
Sa-   4ul-    go        so      am      a           I S R1m"  a
mF        $    au        an      ttU    it   W    *11  "I mma we=
836-  UU6       846      64      53     5    30  Ol  58  Iiib "
as-    no        at      86       to    I    I      8  88           _  51
tC*I     ItF     tZ4        mm aII       Ca         II             mmt Z
cu1-     WF  as          no      at           Ca         a      xuw
vC-       o-    to       lo      mu           lIs                 N"  l
au-      W       M       go      O            0          a    #ms111111
6W-    Mtl-    iU        No      #MS         in    O   S             Lo 303
534-    Wll    to6      too6    No      K    W4         co ii     U15
08-    388-    mal    ago       0*6  will683M                     Samoa
Iut     aIu     "of             lilt    ats  Jr    a                    so
ttU-     1-      A       an      .      U     M     I    i           h
s       56      *e-a     us     MIS   88 .8                   _er
SUb     SUB     SMB        Om    US
IS-)u55e314u31MIS          ge-      o WW    TAW 38                 16)
I     0       5       1       3      0    3                    .............
gI-I Ams
ltmNaMOAao SSOo aOtY saallI.x AO mOSilWdaOD :
135roud II SAVM1IV
iOdai '1VSI VddV  MIVS
3MflVUHIZ



w          tl       ta        tiu       {^              uc *         t         jrS
668-      bu-        ISt      48        colt      8                  tt't    ? 6  5   t8 2 s
86S       64        tog            L td         At               3A toot
to ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      C           tl 0     1 eiI $10          ZKI              0     t    4ft              U12
co1-        I-      661       Lst       SK1      to     A      '4   lv        v8Put 16 limb
811-       W-        N        tLilt     8s89     It     ML      I   sit          3  NbUS
86-      *t-        881S      (tll      WI       8  S tyt   Cl   Ut  1MUM 13im8 suB
lt-        64-      ii         WI       65       It    pit  I  9t    Its a    ")
6-          tI      la$       aIll      bit      et     tt      9   Ks                3iw
*1-   t     8       *I6       Ka        Nu       Is    on      a    lit             hIs3e1
61U1-     tm-       iau         t l     i         t 1  U  .'U    i'   1                )i
tF-         o        to88      61a       881     I       6     tt   tip 6
U58-    6m-         669         5       Nu       a             S1 II  1    18t   SN  ai
0-         IF.      W;        t6        Sul      U      6*    "l   lit                  WS
ii-        ma       wm        fat       msl      *      tIc    I     o         Wu wi  NW
hi-         68       U64       18       146     18 lI G Wm          W              mum)
Ut6       ttl-      au         WI       no       4      (At     I   t*                lima
855-      #4-       68a       61        6        t      cm    t1   W*                    a a
8-        44-       an        Si"       two      t      9     U    go              3U6
94         aS          s                  W      SO a8   m      1    *              1 oItUs
U-        Lu-       6ul       niu      1ou      -4    an       a    go              NoD es
W          g-   Nw    tI   gUO   a   gt                        a  to                    AV
St-         Id       tU        1         lit  at        a 1    a   16   III3a
811-      il-       (As       i6       ga       a  1  tt      Ii tl          13315 4
1*-       611-      4661      44l       t8       a      In    is   IU  tZlUSS 131t5
ow        &L-       kw8        m 611    81       06     KU    " 8 OK  a " E     m         1365
ew  t 1t-    w                Om    gal   *    go  au t5 tool sWIs 131
4611-     W6-       Uan   t    11       UK  tU          tSl    1    51                   &i
498-                 to         W        go      IL    oi       t    W61         S*3"   Jule
mI-       8a-       VA         8t8      on3       t     gm    n1    W                 UsW
bti        11-      aUttu               "to      a   1               tu         tal ) 
I                                           *1~~~~~~~~~99-  686-  Ult      885       91       46    64t    Ii   Cli         416) U
0                                                            USw to-       t     tI-  061  s81        m1     U      66    m1    *lU          (MI) TM
161-     15-       nU         ml       bit             W11    so   as    U           Ulus
|                                           ~~     ~ ~      ~ ~~ ~~~~Ul  6  95  * 1   6(8      t      18   Ui   UlI
u-          U    lNu    in   do   a   W   u 8                                      anSO
la-       "1-      611        s         nu.       a     Ng146     66 411               1W
Ut        IU5-      US        641       686      46t    446   U4   881                  MI
80-      8l-        MD        ran       m1      9      Ss    t    tit             sU _
111-     85-       4eg       ttU       n1       Ui     818     I   g1                  go
1         *6-       8a        au             U          84   91   1t8        t      A33WI
W5-       4t-       an        at46      b86      46     4t    III   868            6itiU84
4*        itl-      WlI       856       Ul6      K      tK     *      t                 MA1
-         86- tU              CUlf       196     St     St l91    Ul 1311MS
WF         16-      6        8g        "l 58  *8t8  U          t31   46    6t 5121111 i* I1
11-      888       011     1 a           I t    1      lb    Ut    to      m   am 101111l
"a-      ml-        64        1au       414      a      bt   got    II                  Ndl
868        u-       out        m8l      tw8      1      1      6      is                am1
sOW       SO        55           46t)    6.
m1  6O     ml6a i6    16    W               Nu
t-3) 45-3   m13452  I                    1 M    mall now   w   N
8  6         8         i~s       3       6      3      6     8              .....
61 t



c4 4O                                                                                       fl$j UO 
|4 a                                                                                                poses (, j 1 lo)  qo) ung pus   a   ;
{!                            P  eq  4tpe  q>" JO} ~~~~~~~p ln*q .suJ'u  118BJ uo
:CuoI oommux3 4iMtg
14 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       w
(111  SM  ILIS   WI     OW  I0C 106H  OrQ  e.          T-60A
09gu-  on                Aol    S       u    m W      i  1    nuL  -    imil
SU      SW      EM      6805    ISIS    U    99  *'  0G1UO 3 D1USj1"
0*      Uilt    505      9905    MIU    K    in    I  go tlmmo
cui     am      U& a1                   5     I" w      Om    I1W tJ8lU
at       k: tIRK         ct      NW     a            1  w      U      Om"b
Mt       liot    SM      el    Sou     S    01  1 I,  cm    -Sir Sa
un       at      IIi    0165     UK    a    tSe.   l   I    361W 3
to8     &a1    gm5       *11     K9M    5    1   If  05 13M uhS  @10
uI      UK      UKI      1 5a SO              tot  I 910    1    U"Mu
aos    to       lw       Ka     nog  Ut    0* lWI  pH5             13S15
WI      su      u SW  0          *nt Sil  5   8K   ii  511 _fhIl  1WUS
9JJ     "a1  en          WIt   Omt  w    is    9 GU num                  sMlo
all     mr    rw        no      nu    a    ltv  Go  llt              i
us      *UI     UK       nuat as    *    of  uS   m            tt
W-      01-     45       Nu       OK    L1 Ol   t     IN UsUm  uWuA
UN-   559-    955        #tt    515    U    i&   1  s e
dn      tow  mu          Ur      to     gs   Om                        I" *a
tV-     Fa       dul     Wt       OK    a1     4    a   do    lilo    am
5* U-     -    Om        gm      act   ai   le   LU  lU              *ASl mUS *
Si-    55-    au         Ng 050  5 0         01   al  at0           3UWWII
tS.-      *-    tlS       il     m 1           toS  U a1 O     I      *501
a   111     ula                ,,, w  ", 1   t        MJAO
W   g0s      Ot      [a t    a      gF       *s
sum     sum                 g, M.
N0W mm5  565 am5    he SlOW  I"   VW
( - 3) is -Jo  I  W  50 flWO  J1M    503306w  TAW  3                Alta")
I     U       9        3       5     4    3                  ........ .I
-------------------------------.-----------------  ................ ......  .



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAYS 11 PROJECT
NRZ: HISTORY OF TARIFF INCREASES
19112                1983                  1986
.DSTE Am2ED           hjl~~~-211v I9h Oktuy 19!]u   OB                           U)891l2v1
DATE GRAiNTD                  1.7.f12              1.5.83                1.1 .8                1.1.87                1.2.M9
A      n             A       B          A             3          A                     A       U. 
Tariff/C.woodity Group                                   '()    (b)
I -4                                            40%    25%         10%   10%    loft        5A      5             I1
5- 9                      -       5'           40%    25%         10%    10%   10!         S" 5e '(                      1(
10                        -       5%            40%    25%         10%l   1      109'       S,                    1t'   10%
11                        139      %            409    25%         10%0o 10%    1r         2f,                            tot
12                        139    5%             40%    25%         17%   20'   15%         1o'    I C,            25%     IQ%
13 - 14                   13 51    %            40%    25q         17S'   20`    15'       l0rs     1%            3CC     14' 
Livestock                 20r   20%             40!1    25%        I0%   15%   15"'        1O(     l'             20%     1( n
Tank Cars                 4W      5T   .        40%    25%          5%    10%    lw        NJL    Mo Increase    1%        1it
Containerised Traffic       -     NtL            409    25%          5%   10%   ION        tilL      5             IC%     i4t
Upper Class                 -      5%           10o    10%         NIL   NIL   10%         10%    3Ff'            1.IL    1O%
Economy Class              -       5            10%    l%         NIL   NIL  1"          35%     35%            3Vt    )nl
Parcels and Luqgage         -      5            40      25%         10    10%    10%        59'                   2%       10(%
?I1lk and Creas                    5%            40%    25%         10%   1IO    10%        5       5%            20r      10
Mlscellaneous               -      5             40%    25%         IC%   1l0   1a0         5%                    2f1     10
NOTESt A-V rate increase requested
8-!V rate Increase granted
- Aruended subnfssions were compiled during the Intervening period.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page . of 5
ZIHBA3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SBECOD RAIVAYS PROJECT
NATIONAL RAILWAYS OF ZIHBABWE
LOCONOTIm  STRATEGY - 1989-94
1.       Introduction.       Among the various factors contributing to the
unsatisfactory operating results on the NRZ, one of the most important and
significant has been the poor performance of its locomotive fleet, in terms
of availability and reliability, coupled with high maintenance costs. The
comparatively newer electric locomotives have been performing satisfactorily,
and the performance of the steam locomotive fleet, though currently poor,
could be improved with local resources.  The locomotive problem is mainly
confined to the diesel locomotives which account for 702 of the total engine
kms, and has its main origins in the highly heterogenous fleet of   13
different classes of locomotives. This is a legacy of the UDI days when,
owing to various internat.onal sanctions, the options for standardization
were severely restricted, The back-bone of the diesel locomotive fleet today
is the DE1OA class locomotive, sixty-one units of which were procured in 1982
after independence, and which have been performing well. The other classes
of locomotives are beset with technical, inventory, maintenance and skill
spectrum problems.
2.       The availability percentages on the NRZ are calculated on the basis
of the ratio of the average number of locomotives made available to traffic
on an hourly basis to the number "effectively on line', meaning the total
fleet, reduced by the number of locomotives 'set aside' for scrapping and
major rehabilitation or repair work. The historical availability figures are
given in Table 1. In respect of the diesel fleet, which is the main cause
for concern, while the availability levels in terms of the above definition
are currently around 502, it really means that only about 332 of the owned
fleet is available for traffic.  From this figure must be discounted the
number of locomotives which encounter failures and defects and their
aftermaths on line service. Allowing for this unreliability factor, the real
availability of the diesel locomotive assets owned works out to be about as
low a figure as 302, which highlights the seriousness of the problem.
Table 1. Locomotive Availability
Type of Loco      1984          1985          1986           1987          1988
O 1E   At  O          EAX    O       AZ    0   EE  AZ   0 I E   hA
Electric       18 9.3 64   30  24.1 55.6  30 27.8 52.9  20 27.3 57.7 30  28.1 74
Diesel        318 240 70.3 316  243 67.5 309 226  63.7 307 207  59.0 307 189  54
Steam          96  87 41.6  94   82 39.6  92  76  41.4  92  73  42.8  92  78  41
0: No. of locomotives owned
Et No. of locomotives 'effectively on line'
AX: Availability as a percentage of 'E'



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 5
3.       The class-vise position of diesel locomotives is given at Table 2.
It will be observed that the 61 locomotives of the DE1OA class carry the
bulk of the traffic. Arrears of deferred maintenance need to be cleared to
improve availability and reliability, which entails the provision of spares
and artisan/supervisory/managerial skills, and no other action is needed to
keep the full fleet in service foz the rest of its residual life of at least
20 years. As regards the other classes, a detailed strategy has been worked
out and agreed upon with NRZ.
4.       DE2 Class:  (17 locomotives).  These locos would be phased out by
the end of 1992. Only fast moving running spares would be ordered in 1990.
5.       DE3 Class:  (15 locomotives).  These locos would be phased out by
the end of 1992. Only fast moving running spares would be ordered in 1990.
6.       DE4 Class:   (13 locomotives).   These locos have undergone re-
powering in 1982; phasing out wvuld commence in 1995 subject to a technical
and economic evaluation at that point.   In the meantime, the electrical
cabling would need attention to improve availability and reliability.
7.       DE5 Classs  (15 locomotives).  These locos have been found to be
extremely difficult and costly to maintain, and major failures and defects
have been occurring. S rapping of these locos would commence straightaway
as when they are rendered ineffective and need major repairs. No more spares
would be ordered; cannibalized parts, and spares in stock would be used to
keep the residual fleet in service. The series is expected to be phased out
by the end of 1990.
8.       DE6 Class:   (9 locomotives).   These locos have been giving a
reasonable level of service. The current fleet is being retro-fitted with
updated components. The series will be continued in service, and phasing
out will be planned after 1995.
9.       DE7 Class:  (32 locomotives).  Scrapping would be done as and when
the locos breakdown and need major repairs, commencing straightaway.  The
stock of spares will be used to keep the residual fleet in-service till all
are scrapped by the end of 1991.
10.      DE8 Class:  (14 locomotives).  None are in service, and all the
locos in this class would be scrapped straightaway.
11.      DESA and DE8B Classess  (18 and 19 locomotives).  The option of re-
powering these locos w:s examined in detail.   NRZ had undertaken, on an
experimental basis, the re-powering of one on DE8A class loco with an EMD
engine, identical to the one on the DElOAs. The repowering proposal entails
major structural modifications on the frame on the DE8A class, mainly to
accommodate the heavier engine (heavier by 6 tons) within the axle-load
limitations, and comparatively smaller structural modification on the DE8B
class to remain within the loading gauge on NRZ.   There are inherent
technical risks in the modifications - to a greater degree on the DE8As - and
the success of the repowered locomotive has to be judged by extended field



- 75 -                       ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 5
performance. The repowering proposal, which consists of replacement of all
assemblies and components above the deck, is more expensive than a normal
simple replacement of the engine alone. It has marginal benefits, based on
a 20 year residual life of the re-powered locomotive, with a traction motor
change midway through the 20 years.   The proposal is also attended with
production uncertainties, taking into account the level of skilled manpower
availability of NRZ and the already high staff turn-over, which is likely to
be exacerbated if the re-powering work is entrusted to an outside firm.
Furthermore, NRZ has to concentrate on, and establish their preventive and
scheduled maintenance systems, which are much in arrears. Assuming a 10I
discount rate, an equivalence ratio of one DESB to 0.9 DElOAs. and an
expected residual life of 20 years, the NPV of the financial cost of
repowering is 932 the cost of a new loco, and, in economic terms, it is 92Z.
The marginal benefit would not exist if (a) the equivalence ratio falls to
0.8 as a result of less-than-anticipated availability or reliability levels,
(b) the repowered unit lasts less than 14 years, or (c)the initial costs of
repowering exceed estimates by 82 or over.   In the background of these
factors, the option of acquisition of new locomotives is preferred to that
of re-powering. These locos would be set aside as when they are due major
repairs.  If all goes well with the DE8A prototype, then :he re-powering
option can become a useful supplement in case of unexpecte?d shortages of
locomotives in the future, or when scrapping of steam locomotives becomes
justified. To meet the shortfalls during the project period, new locomotives
for main line services would be purchased.
12.      DE9 Classt  (20 locomotives).  These are due to be re-powered, and
this could be carried out with the Caterpillar 3512 engine, which is the
successor to the D 398 engine, and has also been proven in locomotive service
applications. The exercise would be spread out over 2 years and the purchase
of 20 engines for the purpose would be funded from the ongoing Railway
Development Project - Ln 2342-ZIM.
13.      DE9A Classt  (44 locomotives).  These locomotives have been found
to be problematic in the maintenance of the engines with cylinder-head, fuel
system and other problems, resulting in NRZ having to use them in down-rated
tandem service, and poor availability and reliability. NRZ has repowered one
loco, replacing the Pielstick engine with the Caterpillar 3512 engine. No
major modifications were involved. Re-powering of this class is programmed
over a period of 3-4 years,and NRZ would seek funds fr3m a suitable bilateral
donor in the proposed project.
14.      DH2 Class:  (8 locomotives).  These would be continued in service
till 1995, when phasing out will commence. The replacement needs will be
covered by the DE9 and DE9A repowering program.
15.      Overall Positions  Thus, by 1994, only the following classes of
locos vould be left in the fleet, and they are expected to give an
availability rate of 75Z, on a 'number owned' basis:
DE4 Class   - 13 locos  I
DE6 Class   -  9 locos  3 83 locos for main-line service
DE1OA Class - 61 locos 3



- 76 -                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 5
DE919A Class- 64 locos  J  iZ locos for shunting and
DH2 Clsss   -  8 locos  3      departmental service
16.      The locomotive fleet strategy outlined above would bring about the
desired improvements in operational results only with the following
supportive strategies all of which are addressed in the proposed project.
.1)   Rationalization of allotment of maintenance workload betueen
workshops. NRZ proposes to undertake the heavy maintenance
workload of DE4, DE6 and DE1OA class locos, as vell as the
locos to be newly acquired, at the Bulawayo Workshops, which
cater to the Electric  locomotives  as well.    The heavy
maintenance of DE9 and 9A classes would be undertaken at
Mutare workshops.
.2)   The running maintenance workload would also be rationally
distributed between the maintenance depots as follows:
Lochinvar: DE1OA, DE4, DE6, and DE9/9A locomotives
Dabukas DE9/9A class
M'popoma: DElOA, DE9/9A, DH2 classes and the new class.
This   rationalization  would  enable   the   conservation,
concentration, and development of scarce specialized skills
on NRZ, and also be conducive to better inventory control of
spare parts.
.3)   A spares procurement system providing for adequate liaison
between the consuming, stocking, and ordering departments.
A beginning has already been made on the NRZ in the ongoing
Railways Development Project with the setting up of an inter-
departmental Joint Task Force to estimate and prioritize the
ordering of locomotive spares. In the proposed project, this
arrangement would be institutionalized with adequate computer
back-up, and the necessary linkages with the Finance and
Accounting Departments. The project provides funds of both
for clearance of arrears of maintenance and for normal
maintenance.
.4)   A staffing, training and man-power development strategy, with
productivity-based incentives is incorporated as an essential
component in the proposed project. The Technical Assistance
component, including the management support element would play
a major roles in developing, testing, installing and initially
maintaining the new systems, policies, and practices.
.5)   A carefully monitored program of preventive maintenance on
the five classes of locos which would be continued in service,
is an integral part of the proposed project.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 5
.6)   In the interests of quality assurance,  an audit of the
maintenance work in the workshops and depots is being
undertaken, and forms and important component of the Operation
Improvement Plan (OIP).   Specialized technical assistance
would be provided for undertaking this Audit, and also to
implement the recommendations flowing from tkis Audit, which
are expected to include setting up and/or refinement of
monitoring, recording, and inspection systems, with special
emphasis on training in quality control measures.
.7)   The monitoring of performance of the train operating crew
would also receive special emphasis in the project.   The
number of major train accidents resulting in loss of limb and
life, as well as serious damage to railway assets has been
high on the system. Apart from the fact of the multiplicity
of locomotive classes operated at random by drivers, NR2's
inspection staff on the train operations side has also been
found to be inadequately trained. The project would address
the need to rationalize, as far as possible, the number of
classes of locos handled by individual drivers as part of its
streamlining of its train crew policy, and also the training
needs to improve the quality of the inspector's cadre. This
is expected to yield dividends not only in terms of minimizing
accidents, but also in terms of improved locomotive handling,
better trouble-shooting capability on the part of the train-
crew, and a reduction in fuel consumption.
17.      Thus,  NR2's  proposed  locomotive  strategy has  a multi-pronged
systems-based approach and the various requirements and needs of NRZ have
been addressed in the proposed project. Coupled with the measures proposed
under the OIP, the implementation of the project should witness a progressive
improvement in availability, reliability and productivity of the locomotive
fleet, with self-reliant and efficient maintenance and operations management
systems.



- Stust.  of1 Si oS Locwtivo - 19W
I      l                                            I          I        I        I  b I  I           Utbli..    I IMi.t.I
_1l'  Tro         I  r         La" EBte  Tr_. I tzr et I  lb                             A, II.            K  perl   e 
SClo                        rs et l         Iw -r -e t e-.                  It   _   -  1   * I-s    to am   taiure   nSa I Eqoiv.e
K I  U co-co-  Eheftwic          ism   E_Else. 114E.11t06  1Elee000  1 Ebc  1#   17            14       n       Ul1    69    5.0  1  4.9t
OE8      -C_-C.-  Electric       186      -de-       -do-       -di-        161       1i        | Ii            4 5      4 41I  7.4 4.9S     1
Ot4       CO-C.   elSeOti1       181      II"s        EE         are"       is"      1i1s               g       m       l        1.:    I."
01 S      CoC.o  11estrie        no        sm         M        sleusso      1_7I 2    1  1 S       1            307 I   Ms8 1    it       t. is
1 4        Co-C.   Eteio         1566      II         a          a          16         9        7       a       66      am        2.L     4.06
K 7        CseC  tlIrtwIt         7      W-Asa.    SW            SW         1on       5U       14                s 1s    _       4.71    1.66
K 0        Cs-Co   Stlceebi       1U     l.th.   Ple,l*l Al tho             07s       14       a                 a 0I    -   I   _       :.:
@  oh      ct-C.   electric      17       -.-        -U-        -11-        son              | 11                 E!u            1n.4      .11
ll a      C-c    Elesrhc         16       -4.-                              19M       10      1i         4           C                    S."
NAM       Cs-Co   el.letr        3         a                     am i                                   as      42    f 2461  ft. " U                1
II 9 100-"    ltlerle             on       at1 "          1.    OE          so        go   U                     70U   .94
Kt 6%     al&l Et-l"   1114 l     onW  as'          lo"Is        a    1"          1    4       It1m    io                        S-" 
10         5.-S.  t r _1 l666"             6 tee rpl d l         e *       1W1       6 "19 le
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ thDatoofi
tern qf (Trust,. e"ffot a 6tlea melow hm) for the elOm of locomotiveo
o..er.  to that f.r the 3gM  Clowm  foe, of emseima
s w



2149
0tILaS It POROEJI
Ip t. .wECh hETOILOD oSUSIT OF L9CPOWTIE  ltIRE IS at
W4C944B    6010EU         PAW"   t. JK1lU  tLIIU               UT. '        Ut. mm,    Wm            tw16t.    401Et0           17E49  E       1           GM1 e10                 SIh                       SIUU
NAM        IA O  T. )VIICTIMt VIC. FALLS  ?t. OM     LIm  IN  Bl0t                    VEST. lICt    IIUTf90     319l1t6    (..0192i          SVIUO       wI      tnmm           CUImlm        mm 6t 6.*M   U
0s*2stet ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    vfm          W"easm                  twm$aS      omm_          ___ "w _    _6=f  .6Womm *|e  @ wa  n s  eN                                        m 
-tt-toa  htetnto  Itel            271         171          3            12('         IS          147           91          1t6         251          ll'          122          19t          19           22          ItS          307          102
stStE"lolll
t014La4i       43742        651815      11SS7bO      IS3t          3072         190          5b34    '   74919       050          217M5        162%bl       5326         13422         5044        5436       12W0         12093
ztI      2153         12939   ; 37924          01b423       11338        26434         9231       59012      s5o0          103296        86601       1225         13165         4067        1064   47   n9           72t
iBIS       1I.659       41456       0263          44413        19314        5216t        35232       15196        481         114449       11:964       4Iti           257          976        412        921t1           224
70141. Ot4It  54(6625. 
fPtP?Sd1iwut 03K'tap          275593       47466        920636        623         19374        5276         35232       5912        5100         11444        11496t!       4100        131t          406         431m        anon             t
Srwritliet--oe. ithr.           1.54         1.54         1.5t         t.54        9.5t         1.54         1.54         1 .54       1.5          1.54         1.54         1.54        1.54         154         1.54         1.54         1.54
litUIto9. htr                 424413       ?W971      149969?       133091       293          99259        54257       90o7s       119640       1710         l174(        63147        20274         6264        67331      120IW7T       t11932
611,110 4.  tr.l lot&lt      5635603
01ib3s StrN traction
Pl --Yl.F4LS                   0                   951VC              9           9            tt           O d  1                                e 0                       tt0         t 0          0            0
PillP, hem   I-actloo         424413       1379m        566732       133091       29616        8125         54257        "679       7tN"*        176250       1499          63147        2027t4       64          07331
1~1anpt O,'ettlont
ttl rton. Olt. d                 r7           si1 0144.                 iI*          53          145           97          1t3         694          2)           I19 1"                    23            1           IT
hes1 Late.  est                 15.61        1.11        13.27         3.12        9.10         2.9          2.00         2.13       19.42         4.13         4.11         1.41        0.47         9.15         1.5S
'alai houl tat"s               17.65
O,VIved *or fmub%  WIlo   40
t... _..__...._. __. ,_ .,_
*- all traftic mants i t htatdl Ittotemottes units wr  31 ea  mitvalntat
Xt 106 to.ehtCe 'lwtNW te  1  Ewntatmon of 'assr.'sntms we:-  vaqlatittv - but IUtfid/ lee-ts-     - 409 km
et .c"lsve 9tt    ctittl
4t  'ann O peay t    uuwtlt, gI stew  l.t otlws not mitft"l   to 1twte.bellst t         mosto etc.
1;kN%9 bawd OR WMo  traile lfA      d ["tOf Ite. touujtfe:o eLe eeIM'g  Wuhonu: 110CM11nd41110     ,uP9  I*b,18a,w4. Uumeut
0t. *8aise -        htq.   PtSea    . 'lawdte-hadv   all otter t   rtims  Ti0d   am  tonsltrent: elstripi:atetin of UtOalt.    _ itp-tb
wnd to Dn coasltul to 99bt
**  ".t  ieldi  trtniu,.o t lwo Alve4 tra          stt r_:gu r  aervices ad utc&-o  tratns doti, km  bss uautN0   ewaratelnl   ONtItdD
Setice:      Owt   etosto. etmntstz 
II
r 



90
N
to
N                                                                                                                    -         -                                                                  -     -            -~~~~~~~~~~~S W   1444111PP 3O   W   4t   M4W11   WU1JMJNW     31    14Pl  A     w j&I6" I8   -
$0641. fi 1016144100 4 a) Ode"".
SWOJ40; SOA  WItsms;ng Ao   li  104"I     '643.- VI 9045303114 04 lS0
JSA  tls3S1I15555JttX  erh  to U145Ig  3 *   04544t50 11*1p438     54XD1)15 to UlF4         t 411I        * ljt't t a"   me S-t ,I
.00KW   p4-JSAOt4gIS uelz '3l  SV NgNW  *414          Wf101         V19r04 ONM   U 0 " tO    01  BO S0 13UJ  110  4111 04 _  4 t
11011368 Weis 9SISO  3
ftk M *otfzl-ilSthA"IM $U - AptiottlaS .saJt SU*WjGWj e0 #A1194J." lts MO tS&Atz aSrm.*#Ao twl
3311tA41510 443 33 OA  oiliv1  55,4060)03 1514g)  s54 6)           * 15 04  Ill '
91 li             U10I t4'   loo-0
SJ;         ovo          we            ui          o-i          WI          tU11         wi           010         *41           Zf't Si1 WU                           #*4n        "0n                415  *ONf 1 10114
9*          9                        if           91    4631   6           46*          lit          0(3         oil,                      (It         A(           990          z803         Of 110112"1  854 1443,
6S        tilt         Glitz        944k         U6196       606101       91861        omit3        6WO*        *196         0            Ol364        1119       gm"00        160            1043194  lsWIQ  *UVj
o                              9            0           0            0            44           0           0            0            0            0           0            0            Sul"1        0           0           IDIllPiiI*-  ON
go                                                                                                                                                                       '1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0143M   "4 1%  'slin
W1'9014     94s1  *106) 4446 19404
99141 *6014        6649         119        98146        9661         1,19'bi      405401      964*u        064933       461*9        t4114       49i         tolbi        Uble36       18b416      54860                  'Al  1501u5nl
*ri        fU                       SIH S91       WIt          t*1        itfft,      W4*1          jt           L9 I        tSl.'t       it4         ;           toll         t'i          Ct1          *t*3                 W AGt Xf Ptt
mus          *39*        196f         866)4        61491        84931       01*3*1       160141       401          Wi66        siLst        di"9         1131        906W0        31911SI      1361i9       ular5        102)36.14 )10013S4.js
993   199*4        f611         WI(          RI          64919       .16*313       5*414       0663#4       zo66;        64*64        46399       66111        41306        tiqvil3     S349         621*36       MO$
muk         59)419       tin1        8Kit          (49         041*1         39*s;       144401       louts1      s664          143(1       * 1          6004        90"00        66661        WM~1         64374        Al
9963         30066       UEW          &44          m6l9         sup         IBM91        410061       046U4        16m         994*9        9WM4         MU36        18406        4*4*64       30*          106109       TWa 19101
01  dK  n  6t      Ul          oti          la           Of           16          itt          Si           Ott          w           tit          lit         1441 WIN104994 tOWSM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~64110  t9
oA                mm          a so   o m              o sm           as        O      m        b Od         Om           A o        em     'm     a     lgW       M       6OLW         SmIC5d       OM         V,e sn4 *D
,3>~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y  Issl SI M110lZ
591          401         t-l          2t1          4'1          441l        (13          411l         31          i*93          34'         *41          63f          0('1        141          1*'1         z            *34p 151554  351s>0333
a,t    s       *;Z'Stf  SSS'iC l       Sflfl      Z'tS I n*ffl   l*#S        *tblfll     *sbetf      FtSt' C  a                Ut8 n*       Pin*        Snnnf   Sleot            S *nSe.f  Ctt4'tA    *th*l,.lr          eit,X    q,
(*463)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4x.
I' IMI3IIUIAlU DIdesINi                                                                            am is
"Mt t21II'3                                                                             p
_   ,_  ,B,_"_  ._, ,._, " ,, .... " " ,",W,"@ __","_ , ,, *,s,33_ *,l ,,,g, wstwu    irs,"_,
_    lt3k111 Iql iX  tZ  s         eti  llefil]  351i3d  '*stSt tOU'&30  'ilS tSiStiili-tXSbj-ltb  tseit & bt3    3S1 6 



il"MIE
idif ApfRdiS4 REPORT
RAILYAVS 11 PROJET
uITH PROJECT: DIESEL LOCNOTIVES REDUIRENENT
1990i91    1991)92     1992)93     1993)94     1994195     IM1%b       199b)97
DEIOA      DEIOR       OEIOR       DElGA 0E     EIA        BEIOA       91E0
thnline Luoutives                              EQUIV UNITS OUIYV UITS LIY  UNITS EIItV UNITS EWUIV UNITS EWUIV UNITS EDIV  UNITS
DE2                                               2.03        1.13        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.0i
O3                                                3.26        1.0         0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.0
DE4                                               2.42        2.42        2.42        4.52        4.52       4.52        4.52
KS                                                0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.0         0.00       0.00
D                                                4.3b        4.71        5.00        5.04        5.04        5.04       5.04
BE                                                u.0          .00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
DEBISA                                            0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.09        0.0                    I
DEB ai                                            0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00 
DE9 at                                            0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.0h        0.00       0.00
ME9A t                                            0.00        0.00        0.0 (.00                0.00        0.00        0.00
EiOft                                            61.00       61.0        61.00       62.00       61.00       hi.00       b1.*
NEN LOCOS bi                                      9.00        0.00        0.00       15.02       20.79       28.99       28.89
TOTALt MAINLINE FLEE7                                73.01       70.66       68.43       85.58       91.35      ".44        ".44
hdel  LKcomott  Reired ior Ooeratuons cJ            19O.34      106.34      106.34      103.43       87.05      92."        94.24
hmel LoKootIvs Snortfali d.                          33.20       35.67       37.91       18.05       -4.31       -6.46      -5.20
ehre tocoKotiv   Rpired e*                           21.51       23.08       24.52       13.47        0.00        0.00       0.0
Notes:
at thew classes assueea assloned excLusively ta sfnuntinq, ballast or otner railways mm-services
o/ New LoKottives opase@ In to eillinate need tor nlring by 194.1995: equivalence factor New Loco: DE 104 c 1.155tl:
c. based an pertormance targets tnnex 5.9) adjusted for isplementation lag of 3 vears assused in project analYses and sectional
traffic density torecasts tin Project  ies
di in BE 104 equivalent unitst negative = surpiust
e/ DE 10 shortfall adjusted tor diiterences in achievea avatianiattv and uttilisation
oetwen IRL BE 104 fleet and nired Iacaeotivesx
Source: NRZ statistics and mission ueuoi ot Nl ooerations



- 82 -                                          ANNEX  3-2
il"Havi"                                Page 4 of 4
i'AFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILVAYS 11 PROJECT
WITH i;RJECT i CONSTRAIIED TRAFFIC: DIESEL LOCOG7Hi;ES RMEUIREMENT
I990/91     19?1192     I9i2193     1993:94     1994/95     19WiDa
DEIOA       DEIOA       DE10A       3EIOA       EIOAE10        0.
Tasniune u reeaovu                              EdUIV OMITS EQUfY UNITS E3b1V UITS EQUi bhITS NOWIV AjTS E3b1IV bNi'S
OE2                                                2.03        1.13        0.00         0.00        0.00        z.9
i7i3                                               3.26        1.40        0.00        0.00         O.00        0.0d
DE4                                                2.42        2.42        2.42         4.52        4.52        4.52
0S                                                 0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        O.00
GEo                                                4.3o        4.71        5.00         5.04        5.04        5.04
wr,{7                                              0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
OE84IA                                             0.0        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        O.do
DEE8 al                                            0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        d.dO
DE? ai                                             0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        9.00
DE9A a,                                            0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        O.%
EO104                                             61.00       61.00        61.00       61.00       61.00       ol.O0
rdW LOCOS bl                                       0.00        0.00        0.00        15.02       20.79       28.89
TOTAL: MIWLINE FLEET                                  73.09       70.66       68.43        85.58       91.35       99.44
Diesel Locomotives Reouired for Onerations Ci        106.34       106.34      106.34       74.39       74.39       73.54
Dhesel Locosotive  Shartiall di                       33.26       35.67        37.91      -11.19      -16.97      -2i.?9
'4ref Loatotoives Reuired e/                          21.51       23.08       24.52         0.00        0.00        0.4;s
I---s-     - ---  -    _         ___                                    _
Not"s:
di fnese classes assuem  assigned ticlusively to shunting, ballast or other railways ownervice:
at ew LACosOUYti   onased in to elisinate  ed  for hiring by 1994/1995s equivalence factor Nw LocaDE 10    1.42:1
c/ based on oerfornnce targets tAnnex 3.9) as laggen to conform with impleentation schedule useu in oroject analyses
ano sectional traffic density ioreKast  (in Project Files,
o/ in DE IOA equivalent units: negative a surplus;
e/ DE 1IO shortfaii adjusted for differnce  in achieved availability and utilisation
oetne    4R1 OE iOA ileet and hired locomotives;
5ource: NfZ statistics and Nission modl of NRZ otrations



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAY II PROJECT
REqUIREYENT OF "S-
1991    1992    1998    1994    190S    1996    1997  WrnH1 4
A. WAON REqIRMEN
1.  wnITm  ZzmaaU
LOCAL          9674.16 9674.16  6674.16 6726.18  5670.7  6S26.28 7091.06  674.16
EXPORT          1585.6S lS85.6S  1566.86  1286.S6  1186.09 1244.48  1265.46 1686.65
TISPT           1S54.27  15C4.27  1554.27  686.88  67. 71  68.20  912.49 1554.27
MOTAL         11914.09 11814.06 11614.06 9849.04 7714.57 6S66.69 9242.03 11914.08
2.  OUT Of ZIMBABWE
RSA/BOTS           822.84  822.84  822.4  886.70  886.94   47.87  847.56  822.84
BEIRA           177.09  17.09  177.09  217.96  221.99  286.48  265.76   7.o09
WAPUTO           108.81  108.81  108.81   99.86  106.49  110.08  106.09  108.81
ZAU/ZAIRE          192.81  192.81  192.81  408.76  418.21  420.29  415.24  192.81
TOTAL           786.06  795.05  796.06  1062.12 1060.68  1110.17 1106.67  796.0s
8.  TOTAL REqUIREMENT                  12609.18 12090.18 12609.18 9911.16 8796.10  972.18 10848.70 12609.18
00
B.  COMMITMW  TO SIUPLY WAO
BY OTNER RAILWAYS
(a) RSA
IMPORT INTO ZIB1AWE             1654.27  14.27  1564.27  88.88  657.71  86.20  912.49 1554.27
EXPORT INTO ZIMBSUE             1664.27  1664.27 1654.27  806.88   857.71  686.20  912.49 1654.27
WIThN RSA                        815.90  815.90  815.96  240.02  248.68  247.80  268.08  81.69S
(b) SEIRA                           120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00  120.00
TOTAL                         8544.60 8644.60 8544.50 2188.28 2079.00 2189.76 2201.06 8544.60
C.   NET TO BE PROVIDED BY NR7          9064.68 9064.68 9064.68 7?77.86 6716.10 7882.87  8147.64  9064.68
D.  AVAILABLE DiN NRZ                   7256.00 72568.00 7256.00 7256.00 7260.00 7256.00 7256.00 725.O0
E.  SURLUS(+)/$fRTFALL(-)             -1608.68 -1806.68 -1806.68  -521.86   589.90 -876.87  -991.64 -1906.68
0:  Without Project  ftfiecy Targts t
og|



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAY II PJECT
REQUIREMENT OF OS! WAGONS
19w    1992    19w      1994    19C    1i9m    1?  WITHOUT 0
A. WAGON R_NIIREMW
1. wmmne wmm
LOCAL          480.85  489.88  489.88  851.44  837.00  487.16  485.89  489.85
EXPORT         1122.12 1122.12 1122.12  910.70  877.S   757.71  8-.85 1122.12
IMPORT          290.59  290.50  210.59  208.02  201.89  100.08  186.80  200.59
TOTAL         1052.54 162.54 1062.54 140.10 1406.74 1868.49 1497.04 1652.54
2. OUT OF ZDiEASE
RSA^              224.45  224.45  224.46  274.46  274.07  247.84  28.12  224.45
52.05   52.65   52.05   16.01   66.61   65.75   57.10   52.65
MAPUTO          285.5s  285.5   285.59  810.75  810.71  242.17  809.40  28.50
ZAM/7AIRE           0.58    0.58     .5c8   11.8    11.92    0.86   11.74    8.68
TOTAL          510.22  519.22  519.22  662.95  658.01  566.12  668.58  519.22
8.  TOTAL RE_JIEMN4                  2871.75 2871.70 2871.70 2181.11 2120.65 I86.61 2160.57 2871.76
B.  COMMIT0N  TO SUPPLVAGONS
BY OTH  IRAILYS
(     A) 
IMPORT INTO ZIAIW              2O.59  290.59  290.59  208.02  201.98  18.8.  105.80  290.59
EPRT IN  ZIMBABWE              290.69  290.59  290.59  200.02  201.98   18.08  105.80  200.59
WHIN NSA                        56.12   68.12   56.12   62.00   68.16   61.70   62.70   58.12
(b)  EIRA                         60.00   60.00   60.00   90.00   60.00   60.00   60.00   60.00
TOTAL                        719.80  n9.80  719.80  54.18  547.04  516.96  408.80  719.80
C.  NET TO E PROVIDED    NERZ         10652.40 1052.40 1052.40 1570.98  1578.01 1419.05 1.2  1062.40
0.  AVAILABLE IN NZ                   1179.00 1179.00 1179.00 1170.00 1179.00 1179.00 2170.00 11".00,
0: Without Project Eftft cls.y Targets 



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAY II PROJECT
REQUIREMENT OF TANKCARS
1991    1992    1998    1994    1995    1998    199?  WITHOUT a
A.  POL TANKCARS
1.  TANKCARS REQUIE
TANKCARS:DIESEL            806.39  308.89  806.89  68.89  881.10  401.66  897.72  308.39
TANKCARS:PETROL            187.23  137.28  137.23  182.72  189.48  148.32  153.78  137.23
TANKCARS:PARAFFIN           41.76   41.76   41.78   86.43   86.48   86.43   86.43   41.78
TOTAL                      487.a8  467.89  487.88  5S5.58  657.01  584.41  567.93  467.38
2.  TAWKCARS AVAILUBLE            549.00  549.00  649.00  649.00  S04.00  604.00  467.00  549.00
8.  SUAPLUS(*)/SHORTFALL(-)        61.62   61.62   61.62   18.47  -63.01  -60.41  -120.98   61.62
S. AV0AS/AVTUR TANWCARS
1.  TUNKCARS REQUIRED              27.28   27.28   27.28   54.87   57.09   58.82   61.08   27.26
2:  TANKCARS AVAILABLE             10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00
8.  SUlfRLUS(.)/SHORTFALL(-)      -17.28  -17.28  -17.28  -44.37  -47.09  -46.82   -61.08   -17.28
C.  ETHANOL TA6CCARS
1.  TAWNCARS REQUIRED              19.06   19.90   19.96   86.99   3B.09   so.99   86.99   19.99
2.  TANKCARS AVAILABLE             82.00   82.00   32.00   82.00   32.00   82.00   82.00   82.00
S.  SURPlUJS(+)/SH0RTFALL(-)       12.02   12.02   12.02   -4.99   -4.99   -4.99   -4.99    12.02
D.  MOLLASSES TAUECARS
1.  TANKCARS REUSJIRU              13.00   18.00   18.00   25.28   25.26   26.26   25.26   18.00
2.  TASKCARS AVAILABLE             27.00   27.00   27.00   27.00   27.00   27.00   27.00   27.00
8.  StWILUS(.)/SHORTFALL(-)        14.00   14.00   14.00    1.74    1.74    1.74    1.74   14.00
0:  Without Projoct Efti.eIncy Target:
P41
0I
to,



Annex 3-4
-87 -                               Page I of 8
ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
mmNICAL ASSISTAN  FOR MvANAG.,MT AND LUPEISORY            T
T--     OF  rgagi
1.       b               The National Railways of Zimbabva (N.RZ),
with the assistance of the Gowexuent of Zimbabwe, the World Bank and
other funding agencies, vill be executing the Railways II Proje.t dring
the period 1990 - 1996. he project envisages investments in assets for
rehabilitationt "placement and modemisation, and also includes a
major cnponent of Technical Assistance for project iplementation for
Managment and SuperVisory Dewlopment.
2.        IQz During the Initlal years of the project, NPWZ
Intends to substantially ilprove the quality and calibze of Its
management and supervisory personnel in specific areas. Tis period
dill also be utilised to upgrade, modoenise and streamline the working
systems and procedues, so as to achieve the objectives of efficient
corporate working, enhancement of transport capacity, optimisation
of asset utilisation, and improvement of staff productivlty, all
of which. call for a sustainable improvmnt in managerial and
supervisory capacity capabilitty, and efficiency, One of the major
weaknesses Identified in the system is the lack of managerial and
supervisozy expesience at various lewls, and an effective thrAst to
acoelerate the rate of acquisition of experienoe with the help of
expert Technical Assistance would be necessary.
3&       Technial Asstanca PlAnS    The T.Ao is proposed to be
arranged in the phases for both Mana     t and Supervisory
Developent programs;e
(a)  A preliminary dlagnostic review by a fourteen member
Manag_ent and Supervisory  ievelojmnt and Support
Team (MIDT) to failiaiee themselves with the systms
in us cn NBZ in order to map out the desirable plan
for the chnges needed to enhance efficiency, and to
identify the specific capabilities and traninrg needs
of anagerial and supervisory staff In specific areas.



Annex 3-4
-~ 88-Page 2 of 8
(b) The introduction of the changes in systems and procedures
and commencement of training and support to NBZ managers
and supervisors in project implementation and respective
specialised areas of work and sound railway managoment
practice with particular referenoe to the changed systems
(Including management of change).
(c)  Subject to a mid-course review after twelve months by the
General Manager of NAiZ assisted by NBZ Management to
evaluate the effectiveness of the system changes and
transfer of know-how by taking into account corporate,
deparbmental, sectional and individual performance
results. the T.A. scheme wll be extended to cover a wider
body of NRZ's managers and supervisors. At this stage,
it will be possible to custom-tailor the scheme to suit
the priorities needed for both Managers and Supervisors.
(d) The Management and Supervisory Devwlopment Team will, wdth
the assistance of their Aailway organisation and NBZ,
develop training programmes and attachment for on job
training of NRZ personnel with theIr Railway organisation.
4.        ptsilod Cotet of Technical Assistancs
Phas One *    This phase will last for three months and
the fourten member team will consist of experts in the following areass
Area Managmnt
Traffic Operations
Plaming (Maxketing/Costing)
mechanical Engineering
Electeical Engineering
SInTeleccs. Engineering
Supplies Mianagement
Diese Locomotive Maintenance (Mechanical}
Diesel Locomotive Maintenance (Blectrical)
Electric Traction (Infrastrucuae)
Signal 0 de6mms.
Tuafic Operations (2)
Supplies



Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 8
- 89 -
SuDulies Manacement
Stock Control Systems - .i;anual and Computerised
Procurement procedures - international and local
Inspection Systems and Quality Control
Liaison with Consuming Departments
Inventory Control
Mtlan Management
Th Team of experts will carry out a quick diagnostic surey of the
senior, middle managers and supervisory level staff on NiZt and of the
corporate working systems and procedures and computer applications,
efficiency and economy in resources (both human and material) to be
incorporated. This would identify the areas of weaknesses, both in
personnel as well as systems, which need to be corrected. A plan of
action will be drawn up and finalised in close oo-ordination and
collaboration with N1Z.
Phase Two &    This phase would last for nine months with
the same number of experts, and covers the eommencement of implementation
of the Training and Systems Introduction Plans prepared in Phase One
and would consist ofi
[a1ining Plan
(a) Organisation of formal and/or informal classes for
groups and indilviduals to present and discuss proposed
system changes, as well as to address deficiencies in
knowledge and experience as observed during the diagnostic
survey. These classes would necessarily have to be
very inter-actiLe in nature.
(b)  Close on the job monitoring of the individuals and
groups assigned to each expert in order to ensure that
the level of performanc is brought up to agreed
standard and that the performance targets are
achieved.
(c) The experts will organise repeat, refresher or
additional classes as dbemed neoessarY to ensure the
attainment of the required upgrading of management
and supervisory experience and the oroper introduction
and implsmentation of the revised systems of working.



Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 8
- 90 -
td) The expert Team will also arranga to prepare
detailed procedural manuals and documantation
to supplementreplace existing documntation as
necessary. They will also prepare the neoessary
course material for the teaching staff of NKZ's
Training Centre with whom they will work in close
liaison, so that the Training aGentrs and its staff
are adequately equipped to run suitable appropriate
general management/supervisory courses for NMZ's
management and supervisory staff after the departure of
the experts.
ge)- The experts will via the NRZ Project Co-ordinator
review periodically the programmes outlined in (as
to (d) above with the D)epartment Head, the Naz
Project Co-ordinator and the relevant Assistant
Ceneral Manager. This review team will keep the
General Manager, through NBZ Project Co-ordinator,
advised of progress achieved and problems encountered
and plans proposed.
(f) lhe experts will carry out an initial evaluation of
each officer or supervisory staff assigned to him
and thereafter, undertake a reevaluation every
-quarter with specific reference to on the job
moitoring carried out by them and this evaluation
report wlll be submitted by the Expert Tea Leader
through NIZ Project Co-ordinator to the General
Manager. In cares where there is need for counselling
by higher management, this should be specifically
mentioned In the evaluation rsport.
(g) The experts wdll de vlop general management and
supervisory tgaining progras ;s for use by NIZ In
the training and development of all cadres of
Officers and supervisory personnel.
(h)  Each officor or supervisor receiving this support and
training will, likewise, evaluate the assistance
received every quarter and report it to his
departmental head who will forward the same thogh
NRZ Projects Co-ordinator to the General M4anager.



Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 8
- 91 -
(S)   The experts will maintain individual diaries
of their wozrk with brief notes on activities
undertaken by them and these voula be noted
and initialled, with comments wheze necessary,
by the attached officers once a veek.
Systems DeveloWcgnt and Imnlementation
(i)   The experts wdll, after a thorough evaluation
of N&Z systems in use in the Departments/Sections
to which they are assigned, amend or where
necessary develop new systems, regulktions
and procedures including computer applications
wtere necessary or methods of working/undertaking
specific tasks with a view to improving the
overall efficiency of the Departnent/Section
and productivity of NRZ employees concesned.
(ii) Any amenduents to existing systems or new systems
developed must be discussed with the Depart-ental
Head/relovant Assistant General Llanager and the
N1Z Project Co-ordinator prior to implementation.
(Iii) Where such changes impinge on employee conditions
of servioe or any collective bargaining agreement the
NiR Project Co-ordinator will through the office of
the Chief Manpower Manager solicit and negotiate
Union Agreement.
Phase Three s     At the end of phase two, there will be a mid-
course evaluation of the efficacy of the Technical Assistance scheme as
implemented thus far. This review will be carried out by the General
Manager of N?Z and his review team, assisted by the World Bank Mission
and Government of Zimbabwe. The review will cover the effectiveness of
the system changest the transfer of technology and know-how, and will
take into account the corporatet departmental and individual performance
sesults compared to targets. Subject to the results of this review, the
tezm of the experts will be extended and expanded to cover another
additional 576 person-monthst this is subject to review by the IBZ and
World Bank. The following is an indicative provision for the whole
schem covering all thzee phases; it is, however subject to modification
and fine-tuning after the mid-courSe review:



Annex 3-4
Page 6 of 8
- 92 -
1.l
Area Management ...*...*..******.....**  36 person-months
Traffic Operations .................7 3                n
Commercial Operations .....................   24
Mechanical Engineering ....................  84
Blectrical Engineering ....................  36
Signal/Telecom. Eng. .................e.....  4
Supplies Management  .......................  60
Manpower Planning Development ........*.....   12
IDTAL .* .........          ... .. ... 372
2*       SUD@rvsorXV
Diesel Loco liiaintenance (Mechanical) ...... 54 person-months
Diesel Loco Maintenance (Electrical) ....0..............  54  
Electric Traction (Locos) .................  24
Electric Traction (Infrastructure)  *.......   36
Signals/TeleoOMMS.  .............o .          36 '
Traffic .....*-*                             108
Supplies *6e*eee-e-- . .e ee.*-e               0       n
=TAL   ......                               372 n
The functioning of the expert teaM will be on the same lines as detailed
for phase two, subject to changes that may be introduced as a result of
working experience in the earlier phases and the mid-course review.
URLE    &EI I JR,
Apart frm undertaking specific assignments for the department to
which he is attached    the Team Leader will W-
(i)       Liaise with NEI on matters pertaining to the welfare
of mgmbers of his team. 
(ii)      AEct as his orgenisation's representative in Zimbabwe
and be available to discuss with NRZ any issues pertaining
to the project.
(iii)    Co.ordinate the activties of all members of the project
team in liaison with the NUZ Project Co-ordinator.
(iv)      &e responsible for the psrformance of members of the team
and required to ensure that it is of a high and acceptable
standard at all times.



Annex 3-4
Page 7 of 8
- 93 -
5.        ReDortina Recuirementsa      Within two months of their
arrival in Zimbabwe, the Team of experts will submit the draft
diagnostic study report and the draft plan of action through
NEZ Project Co-ordinator to the General Mianager. This plan of
action will be discussed, finalised and fozmalised wvith NRZ
Dlanagement and Eaview Team and the final report and plan of
action should be ready before the end of the third month, when
Phase One will ccme to an end. At the end of every quarter,
thereafter, the Team of Experts will submit a Progress Report
through the NRZ Project Co-ordinator to the General i.ianager; this
report will include the individual evaluation reports referred to
earlier.
6.        Qualifications and exoerienos of exqrts:       The experts
shall have basic University degrees (Engineering degrees in tho case
of Engineering and Supplies management experts) and shall be members
of recognised and relevant professional institutions. the experts
for Phase One will be the Lead biembers for each discipline, and they
should have had proven and successful experience in their respective
fields of railway management at senior levels for at least 15 years.
The Team Leader shall be a traffic operations expert. The Area
Management Experts shall have had experience in general railway
management at area or divisional level for at least ten years.
The systems coverage in experience needed for each of the disciplines
will be as follows:
Area Mbnagements
Transportation Planning
General Management (Railway)
Inter_departbental Co-ordination
Optimisation of asset utilisation
Staff productivity
Public and Customer Relatlons
Costing, Tariffs, Marketing
Labour kolations
Monitoring of Performance of all departments
Traffic Operations:
Transportation Planning
Railway Traffic Planning and Operations
Monitoring of Performance
Optimisation of asset utllisation
Staff Productivity
Tariffs and Costings
Man Management
Customer Relations



Annex 3-4
Page 8 of 8
- 94 -
fingineering:
Railway bechanical, Electrical or Signal/Telecas.
&ng. as applicable
Prewntive Maintenances Planning, Scheduling and jioview
Performance Analysis$ Biquipment and staff
Incentive Scheass Staff Ptoductivity
Equipment Specification
Quality Control
Alan Ilanagement.



- 95 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 2
ZAM&M
SlAP? APPRAISAL EXPORT
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
NATIONAL RAILAYS OF WDNBAMWEa LOCOMOTIV MATETENANCE AUDIT
DRAFT TERMS OF EERUC
1.   The objective of the Audit is to examine in detail the diesel
locomotive maintenance function on the system determine the
effectiveness of the relevant systems and procedures and to recommend
measures for improvement where necessary.
2.   NRZ has on its books diesel locomotives and the main workshops where
the major maintenance overhauls and rehabilitation are carried out
are at Bulawayo and Mutare. The locomotive depots undertaking first
line maintenance are at Mpopoma, Dabuka and Lochinvar.  The
availability and reliability of diesel locomotives on the system have
been consistently poor of late.  NRZ has reviewed its Locomotive
strategy with a view to improve the situation to acceptable levels of
availability and reliability. One of the actions to be undertaken to
implement the Strategic Plan is a detailed Maintenance Audit of
Locomotives.
3.   This Audit will be carried out by an Inspection Group to be set up
within NRZ, which is proposed to be headed by a team of two
expatriate experts for a period of 12 - 18 months. The Group will
visit all the locomotive maintenance installation procedures with
special reference to the following points.
(a) Adequacy and regularity of Scheduled work content for regular
periodical maintenance.
(b) Effectiveness and quality of work undertaken with regard to
skill imports, compliance with prescribed work content
requirements and propei. use of replacement spares.
(c) Quality control and inspection procedures.
(d) Documentation of maintenance work effective use of historical
data for revising scheduled work content and for updating spares
requirement forecasts, and for individual accountability for
performance.
(e) Diagnostic and trouble-shooting procedures and expertise,
effectiveness of out-of-course repairs.
(f) Failure analysis - depth, effectiveness, and use for failure
prevention.



- 96 -AM                               35
96                    ~~~~~~ANNEX 3-S
Page 2 of 2
4.   The Group vill identify areas of weaknesses in Systems, practices
procedures, equipment, and skills, and formulate recomaendations to
the Chief Mechanical Engineer to eliminate the weaknesses. They will
also assist the Chief Mechanical Engineer in implementing the
recouendations and continuous monitoring thereof.  The Group will
report directly to the Chief Mechanical Engineer.
5.  During the initial 12 - 18 months, the expatriate experts. %ho will
head the Group will work closely with the Group members, and lia::se
closely vith the Chief Mechanical Engineer, and ensure effective
transfer for technology, so that the Group will be able to function
independently and effectively at the end of the term of the
expatriates.



97 -                             Annex 3-6
-,                               Page 1 of 5
ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
MAbNPO.iER STU'DY
-nauS OF R2E:lREN
1.  Bal
The National Railways of Zimbabwe (N*.Z), with ta'i assistance
of the Goverrnent of Zimbabwe, the ilorld Bank and other funding
agencies, will be executing the Railways II Project during the
period 1990 - 1996* The project envisages investments in assets
for rehabilitation replacament and modexnisation, and also
Includes a major component of technical assistance in manpower
planning and general mangzemnt development.
2. tBMEE
buring the initlal years of the project, N.i4Z. intends to
substantially improve the quality and calibre of its management
personrel in specific azeas. Ihis period will also be utilised
to upgrade, modxdnise and stxeamline the working systems and
procedures, so as to achieve the objectives of efficient corporate
workings enhancoment of transport capacity, optimisation of asset
utilisation and improvement of staff productivity, all of which
call for a sustainable improvement in managerial capacity,
capability and efficiency. One of the major weaknesses
ldentified in the system is, due to lack of dataprocessing
equipment, the inadequacy of the existing manpower planning
programmes and the absence of sound procedures to scientifically
addess and review at periodic times the appropriateness of
manpower levels throughout various grades having regard to
both traffic levels and wozk loads. It is intended to achleve
the aforumentioned objectives Including an evaluation of
eployees conditions of service and the Railways Staff
Pest omance appraisal system.



- 98 -                               Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 5
3.   WXO-.;9 Slur PLAS Ms
3.1.   A preliminary diagnostic review by a two member Management
Consultant team and a like number of NI.HZ. personnel to
acquaint themselves with the prevailing systems practices
and procedures sWithin t,R.Z. in order to map out the
desirable plan for the changes needed to develop and
implement sound manpower planning and review models and
procedures in order to determine optimum staff levels
3.2.  A review of the "National Railways of Zimbabwe Review of 1985"
an internal study whose findings were accepted by management
but could not be fully implemented owing to the absence of
precise assessment of the surplus personnel.
3.3.   The introduction of changes in systems, practices and
proceaures and commencement of training and support to core
Nt.&.Z. Manpower Branch and WYork Study personnel in project
implementation.
3.4.   An evaluation of employee conditions of service by grade.
3.5.   An analysis of employment and advancement of women within
N.R.Z. and of the measures that Railways could take to
actively encourage their employment and participation at
both managerial and supervisory levels.
3.6.   An assessment of the Railways staff performance Appraisal
System.
3.7.  The training of Iianpovar Staff and M;anpover Project team
personnel in relevant tManpower Study methods will be
necessary.
4,   DBTA!LED CCNTENT OF WhNPOdJR SIUDY
4.1.  Undertake an in depth review and analysis of N.FRZ.
manpower levels by branch, section and grads in relation
to appropriate projected traffic volume and incumbent's
own workload, and to deteDmine and rocommend optimum
staff levels by Branch, Section and Grade.
4.a2  Identify quantitively the surplus staff by grade in each
Branch.
4.2.1.   Work out strategies for dealing with the surplus
staff.
4.3.   Identify specifically by Branch, 3ection and grade any
confirmed excess workloads in relation to projected
traffic volume, or accepted work measurement criteria.



99 -                               Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 5
4*4*   Review working mathods and, with the use of time and
motion study techniques, devise and recomnend the
introduction of new improved methods of worldng in
selected Branches, Sections and grades.
4.5.  Review and, where applicable, update intexnal Procedural
Manuals to take account of changes introduced,
4.6.   Undertake a thorough review of the existing manpower
planning methods, practices ard procedures which, inter
alia, must include staff budgeting/forecasting, succession and
caseer planning etc. and recommend the introduction of
improvements where necessary and the production/updating
of relevant internal Procedural Ilanuals.
4.7.   Produce, with the active participation of the Core NRZ
Manpower/Work Study team, a cmputerised *anpower Model
for planning and f&ecasting purposes.
4.8.  Critically review the capacity of NBZ Training Centre, in
terms of both human and material resources, to effectively
maintain Management Daiglopment Courses for Senior Railway
Mnagement personnel following a training neds analysis
and the determination of appropriate curricula in consultation
with Management Development Consultants (Expatriates)
and the NXZ Chief Mlanpoer Manager.
4,9,  An analysis and formulation of positive strategies
(devoid of barriers) geared at improving female
recruitment, promotion and participation at managerial
and supervisory levels an NRZ.
4.10. Dewelop and maintain management courses for all NRZ
offioers In phases to impart general management skills
and to Instill in participants a sense of belonging and
corporate identity.
4.11. Tme appreciation of corporate objectives, sectional and
individual targets would be incorporated in the curricula.
4.12. As a long term objective, in terms of the project, the
development of a training syllabus and examinations for
participants at various levels to assist in developing
participants career paths and the linkage of such
arrangements with the overall manpower data base.



- 100 -                            Annex 3-6
-100-                      ~~~~~~Page 4 of 5
4.13.  Hbview current remuneration survey approach and system
with a view to strengthen same in order to enhance
retention of skills.
4.14. Evaluate employee conditions of service by grade in order
to ensure that the conditions of service remain competitive
and assist in attracting and retaining all levels of
Staff required by NflZ.
4.15. Assess the efficacy of the fiailviays Staff Perfonnance
appraisal system.
4.16. The Study should provide clear options on the implmentation
of its findings.
4.17. Prepare relevant training prograuraes in Wanpower Studies and
identify staff who will undergo the necessary training in the
field of Manpower Studies.
S.   LCGIS2lGAL DETAIIS
5.1.  NRZ employs approximately 17 000 persons, and has more than
500 jobs and various methods of working.
5.2.   The two external management services consultants will work
with the NM  Chief Manpower Manager (who shall be the overall
team leader) assisted by personnel from the following
disciplines s
Manning                  1
Training Centre         1
Work Study              4
Job Grading             1
Total core team including consultants a 10
Additional N1Z personnel frm other Branches shall be
co-oted as the need arises.
5.3.  The study is expected to follow the course shown below *-
(The ciration could be reduced)
5.3.1.   Overview and Preliminary Report        )
5.3.2.   In-house seminans to sensitise NRZ         2 months
staff of the exercise                      2
5.3.3.   Formal meetings with the Zimbabwe      )
Amalgamated Railwaymen's Union (ZAEJ) )



- 101 -                           Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 5
5.&34*  Review of the follordngs
5.3.4.1.  Branches/Sectionst
Accomting
COnpu1ter
Internal Audit                6 months
Public Relations
5*34*2.  Civil 
5.3.4.3.  Blectzical 
Signal
5*3*4.4*  Mechanical                 )  6 months
5.3.4*5.  Supplies                   )
hanpower
Coroate Plaming               4 months
Health and Safety
Road Motor Services
Socurity
5.3.4*6.  Traffic                    )  6 months
5.3.*47.  Ianagment D- Ilopent       interspaced
Courses at Training        thoughout
Cont)e  psoject life
5.3.*48.  Pzparation of Final R port    6 m)th
and Proo.du. MUanuals         6
30 months
5.4.  neparbental Reports (in advance of the main reporahall
be proaced astr each Branch/Seotional Sudy. An
evaluation of employee conditions of serAice and
assessment of the Staff Appraisal system vill zun
conwantly wIth the Manpowr Revlew exerclse.
6345014801
24 July 1990



- 103 -
Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 3
ZDEAB
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECS
WANA3UMm  IWOIMATION SYSTiES STUDY:
DRAPT ?MS OP       R
1.        Backarounds    For the successful operation of any enterprise,
the availability of timely and accurate information is highly essential.
Such information enables appropriate decisions being taken by the
management leading ultimately to organizational efficiency. Since the
National Railways of Zimbabwe is a commercial enterprise, established by
act of Parliament to convey commodities by rail and road, it is necessary
to develop, implement and operate an effective Management Information
System (MIS). The World Bank has agreed to fund the MIS study to be
undertaken on the National Railways of Zimbabwe.
2.        Obiectivess    The objectives of the study would be tos
(i) identify the existing manual procedures and practices in the
preparation of information reports in each branch;
(ii) analyze the information needs for the operating, middle and top
management levels to establish an effective decision making
process with a view to optimising productivity at each of these
levels;
(iii) establish data comaunication requirements necessary in the
immediate, medium and long terms for the successful
implementation of MIS;
(iv) recommend on the training requirements of both the user branches
and the Data Processing Staff to develop, operate and maintain
the systems;
(v) recommend a phased introduction of HIS in various branches,
keeping in view the ultimate aim of an integrated information
system and the resultant branch organizational structures;
(vi) establish the interface between the current re-equipment project
and the proposed MIS.
(vii) broadly indicate the costs and benefits of the Management
Information Systems (MIS).
3.        Scone of the Study:
(a) The Consultant will study in depth the working of every branch,
the reports produced, their periodicity and the levels at which
they used or acted upon;



- 104 -
Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 3
(b) the Consultant will critically examine the above
reports/procedures and identify 'mission critical' systems for
automation (i.e. systems that automate the essential elements e
the branch's operations instead of routine clerical tasks of the
back office). The Consultant will then identify the reports as
applicable to various levels to enable decisions being taken in
an effective manner. The formats and periodicity of the reports
will also, to the extent possible, be indicated by the
Consultant;
(c) the Consultant will study and indicate the phases by which the
MIS can be introduced. The phases may be branch-wise and within
a branch aspect-wise, taking into account all relevant factors
not the least of which being the preparedness of the personnel
at various levels to understand the technology;
(d) it is obvious that for Management Information Systems (MIS) to
be fully effective, there must be integration of the information
systems branch-wise and organization-wise. The Consultant would
study what communications facilities are required and the stages
by which they are to be implemented to achieve such an
integration, taking into consideration the resources/facilities
already available with the National Railways of Zimbabwe;
(e) for the systems to be successful, training of the user personnel
and the Data Processing staff is highly essential. The
Consultant would study and identify the training requirements of
the user branches so that their personnel have proper
appreciation of the systems to intelligently operate them. As
for the Data Processing staff, training is needed for
interaction with the users and to maintain the systems so
developed. The Consultant would also study the organizational
requirements of the Computer Services Branch at various stages
to developlmaintain the systems vis-a-vis the existing
structure;
(f) the Consultant would identify the details of costs to be
incurred and benefits to be achieved by the introduction of the
Management Information Systems. This would need to be in
sufficient detail to enable the administration to take
appropriate decisions in fixing priorities, ordering further
studies as necessary, etc.;
(g) while carrying out the study, the Consultant will work in close
consultation with the management at every appropriate level and
take its views into consideration.
4.        Duration of Studys  The study should be completed within a
period of 10 to 12 months.



- i05 -
Annex 3-.
Page 3 of 3
5.        Reporting Requirements:
(i) An inception report will be submitted by the Consultant within 4
weeks of the commencement of the study. The report will
indicate the course of action and the schedule of deliverables,
interactions proposed from the various parties involved and the
inputs needed from them. The forwat of final reports will be
outlined. The report will be discussed with the National
Railways of Zimbabwe and agreement reached within 2 weeks of the
submission of the report;
(ii) at the end of 6 and 9 months after the couuencement of the
study, progress reports would be submitted. National Railways
of Zimbabwe will convey its conments within 2 weeks of the
receipt of the reports. The draft final report will be
submitted not later than 11 months from the commencement of the
study. This will be discussed with the National Railways of
Zimbabwe and the final report submitted not later than 12 months
from the commencement of the study.
6.        Qualificationss      The Consultant should be an established firm
with specific experience in this type of work of at least 7 years, with a
proven track record. The members of the study team should be specialists
in their respective fields with the necessary qualifications and depth of
experience.



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ff                             ~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS II PROJECT
ACT IIII TI                     OPERATIONS IMPROVEMNT PLA                  r               P l.a,|food
st~'it       end
OPERATION IMPROUEIENT P lan                                            6-11-09         19-11-92
..............   .   . .   . .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
WAGO11 LOADABI LI TV                                                  6-11 -89       19-11-91
I.. ........... . .    . .    . .    . .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . .    .    . .    .    . .    .    . .    . .    .
PREPARE LOADABILITY  CHARTS    (MECH)                                6-11-89        10-11-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  I .   .   . . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ADVISE LOADABILITY  CHARTS tO USERS                                13-11-89         17-11-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
REUISE TARIFF REGULATIONS                                          13-11-89         17-11-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .  I .   .   . .   . .   .
F I NALI SE USERS' PLANS FOR   WEI GHMENT FACI LI TI ES              6-11-89        29-01-90
*                                                                                               .   .   .   .
I MPLEMEMT WEI GHMENIT RATIOtIALI SATI ON PLLANS                   30-01-90          5-06-90
.     .   . . . . . . . .... . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
REMOUE AXLE LOAD RESTRICTIOtNS (CE)                                  6-11-89        17-11-89
. . ............. . ...... ......
PREPARPE & IMPLEMEtIT SOFTWARE FOR EXCEPTION REPOR    6-11-89                        1-12-89
ACHIEUE 5%  IMPROUEMEtIT HSI & 2. 5'. 0SI & OTHERS                   6-11-89         8-11-90
ACHEIUE  10  IMPROUEMEIIT HSI & 5%:  0SI & OTHERS                   9-11-90 .1Q-11-91
WAGON ALLOCATIOII                                                     6-11-89        22-08-90
.............. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. .. .
ADUISE APPROPRIATE 1AGcO   TYPES FOR COMMODITIES                     6-11-89        10-11-89
. . .



ACT I VI TY rP ln'.'i                                                                                                                  P Illnnod
sA rt                    e end
COMMENCE WEEKLY EXCEPTION REPORTING (CS)                                                             6-11-89                  1-12-09
...................              .    .   .   .   .   ... ......................  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
COMMENCE OFFERIIIG IHIN WAGONS FOR COOL LOAD! HG ON   6-11-89                                                              29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. . ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ACHIEVE ItOO  COMPLIANCE FOR CHROME, ASBESTOS, FERR  t3-11-89                                                                5-03-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. . ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ACHIEUE FULL COMPLI ANCE FOR OTHER ITEMS                                                            13-11-89    22-08-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   ..   . .   . .    .
WAGON STOCK                                                                                            6-11-89    29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
IDENTIFY SCRAP & STAGED WAGONS THRU SURUEY (ME)    6-11-89    17-11-89
....   ..  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .
IDENTIFY SCRAP YARDS (PL)                                                                            6-11-89    17-11-89
.         . .       . .     . .     . .     . .     . .    . .     . .      . .     . .     . .    . .     .   . .    .    . . . ..   . . ..................... ....
PLACE SCRAP WAGONS ItN SCRAP YARDS                                                                 20-11-89    29-12-89
.       .   . .    . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     . .     . . .     .     . .     .   . .    .    .   .   .    .................... ....
PLACE I NFREQUEINTLY USED WAGONIS IH H1OMI0 T FED SIDI  20-11-89                                                          29-12-89
PLACE DAMAGED WAGONS IN WORKSHOPS                                                                  20-11-89    29-12-89
...............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .. .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .    . .     .
REDUCE SATS HOLDING OH HRZ TO 6700 WAGOtNS                                                           6-11-89    14-12-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ..   . .   . .   .   . .   . .   .  .   . .   .   . .     . .     .
REDUCE SATS HOLDING Otl NRZ TO 4700 WAGON4S                                                         15-12-89    29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
YARD OPERATIONS                                                                                        6-11-89                 7-05-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  . ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .     . .      .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _



oil' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ L                    vl
I  -  1-C:3?
--
rrCrl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.:sgr etu'.   .,,,  1.B.,,,.,J
ISSUE REtVISED YAPD WORK!ING IIISTRUCTIOIlS                      6-l -'0'       1-12-39
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   .   . I . .   I .   . .   . .   .
CAPE YARD TO BE OPERATIONAL (SE)                                  6-11 S4:9    C26-02-90
OPERATlONIS INFORMATION SYSTEM TO BE DESIGN1ED (C0S    6-11-894)                 26-02-90
HARDWARE FOP 015 TO BE III POSITIOII (CS)                         6-l -8.9       26-02-90
OIS TO BE OPERATIONAL (CS)                                       27-02-90        26-03-90
.............. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. .. .
NO OF WAGONS IN  YARO TO BE AS PER YARD CAPACITY                 6-11-89         7-05-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  I .   .   .... .... .. .. ....  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .  I .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
BLOCK RAKES AND POINT TO POINT WORKINtG                              -1 1-89       9-04-90
INTRODUCE DIRECV  FUEL TRAINS MUTARE - SOUTH                      6-11-89         1-12-89
INTRODUCE DIRECT COAL TRAINIS TO Mt NAMMPDEN & BRA    6-11-89                     1-12-89
INTRODUCE DIRECT CHROME TRAINS KILDONfIN  - KIWEKUE  -6-11-89                     t-12-89
INTPODUCE DIRECT MAIZE TRAINS  Mt HAMPrJEN - SOUT    6-11-89                      1-12-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ... . .. .. .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   .   . :. .   .   . .   . I .   .
IHTRODUCE DIRECT FERTILIZER  TRAINS SHERWOOD - SO    6-11-89                      1-12-89
.     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
BLOCK RAKES FOR COAL,STEEL,TOBACCO,MAIZsE, FERTILI    6-11-89                    29-12-1 89
..........................   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   .   .   . . .   .   .  I .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   ".
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . _ 



9-11-019
ACTI VIJ TY                                                                        P lanuied         P Iained
star-t             end
IDENTIFY  POINIT  TO  POINT  TRAFFIC>30 Q000  TON-it-IES PE                6-11-89          17-11-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
BLOCK  RAKES FOR  OTHER  COMMODITIES>30,000  T PER  Y   20-ti-89                             9-94-90
..............   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
PREPARE RAKE LINKS (PL)                                                    6-11-89    10-11-89
..............   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
RUN  RAKES TO  LItNKS                                                     13-11-89           2-04-90
ADVANCE  PROGRAMMI IG FOR  BULK  LOADS                                     6-11-89          15-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
RATIONALISATION OF SIDING OPERATIONIS                                         6-11-89    15-08-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. . . . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .
IDENTIF'Y SIDI 1GS WITiI FULL  LENGTH  AND  OFFER  BLOC                    6-11-89          24-1 1-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
IDENTIFY  SIDING.S  WHICH  CAN  BE  EXPANDED  ';PL)                        6-11-89           1-12-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
REOUEST  & PROMOTE EXPAtISIOtI OF SIDIHGS  (PL>                            3-12-89          15-08-90
..............   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
REUIEW  SIDIHNG  OPERATitOS  III HM.JOR  COMPLEXES                        6-11-89            1-12-89
..............   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
RATIOJOALISE  OPERAT IOl(S  TO  MI NIMISE  DELAYS                          3-12-89          26-02-90
LOCOMOTIUE  UTILISATI OIN                                                    6-11-89           5-06-90
..............   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
REDUCE  LOSS OF LOCO  TIME  11  DEPOTS  TO  6%  OF  TR  H    6-11-89                       29-01-90
0_



Oir
9-1 1-sw
ACTI U!T                                                                     V Im'    i r  1 dP,j  p lanred
sta.rt            end
DESIGN ADDITCIHAL FUELIHG  POINTS (PL>                                6-11-09         14-12-89
................   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .. . ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
INSTAL ADDITIONIAL FUELING  POINTS (ME)                              15-12-09          5-06-90
........................                     .....................    .     . .     .     . .     .     . .     .     . .     .     . .     . .     .
REDUCE LOSS OF LOCO HOURS OURING  TRIP  TO  10>: OF                   6-11-09        29-01-90
TRAI N LOAD RATI OlNALI SATI ON                                        6-11-89         29-12-89
. ................. .                             ...... ...... ......
RUN COAL TRAINS TJ - DU WITH  20th CLASS STEAM  /D    6-11-89                         29-12-89
.............. . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .
RUN COAL TRAINS TJ - DUI WITH DE10t3/1700T                            6-1t-89         21-12-89
. .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .   . . .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  ................ ...... ...... 
DIESEL LOCO  RELIABILITY                                  0             6-11-89        16-05-91
.....................  ....... . ...... ........ ......
AhtALYSE LOCO  FAILURES (ME)                                          6-11-09          1-12-89
COMPLETE MAIIITEIIrAICE AUDIT  &  iCTIOHt PLAtN (ME)                  6-11-89         26-02-90
I MPLEMENT MOST I MPORTANT ITEMS OF ACTI ON PLAN (M   27-02-90                         7-05-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . ..   .   . .   .   . .   . . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
IMPLEMENT BALANCE  ITEMS OF ACTION PLAII (ME)                         8-05-90        24-01-91
.    .    .     .    .    .     .    .    .     .    ...    . .  .  ..  .  .    .  .    .  .  ..  ...   ...   ..I........   :   . ......
ACHIEUE 80000-100000 KM BETWEEN FAILURES (ME>                        25-01-91         16-05-91
FREIGHT TRAIN  SCHEDULIIIIG.                                            6-t1-09        23-04-90              00
_ .   .     .   _.    _- .   .     .     .     .     .   .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   .     .     .     .     .     .     .   .     .   .     .     .     .     . . .



9-.1(-11
ACT! I)I TY                                                                                p IaIIrd           r lanraed
s tart;              end
INTRODUCE FIRST-Ifl FIRST-OUT FOR CREW (PER>                                      6-11-89    29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
TRAIN SCHEDULI15G ON PATH AUAILABLE BASIS                                          6-11-89    29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ..   .   . .   .   . .   . . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
PREPARE PLAN FOR OUTSTATIOH REST ROOMS (PL)                                        6-11-89    29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . ..  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
INTRODUCE KM - LINKED ALLOWANCE (PER)                                             6-11-89    23-04-90
TRANSIT TRAFFIC SCHEDULING                                                          6-11-89    14-12-89
.................   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .
AGREEMENTS WITH CONTIGUOUS RYLS TO SEtND ONE DEST   6-11-89                                          14-12-89
RATIONALISATI ON OF TRAINI EXAMIIJATION                                             6-11-89            15-01-90
.     .   . .   . .   . .    . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . . .    .   . .    .   . .   .   .   .   .   ...................... ....
REUIEW EXITING PROCEDURES ANDJ UARIAHCE (ME)                                       6-11-89             1-12-89
.     .   . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . . I .      . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   .   .   ................... ....
ISSUE NEW INSTRUCTIONS FOR BLOCK RAKES <ME>                                       3-12-89    15-01-90
.     .   . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .    . . .   .    . .   .   . .   .   .   . . . ...................... ....
AUOiD SECOND EXAMINATION OF WAGONJS WHILE LEAUING   6-11-89    17-11-89
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .. . . . .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
CONTROL OF STOCK USED FOR DEPAPMENTAL WORK                                           6-11-89             1-12-89
..............  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  I.   .   .   .   .   .   .     ..........  .   ..   .   ..  ..   .   ....   .  .   ..   ..   .
I NTRODUCE I NTERIAL DEMURRAGE                                                    6-1t-89              1-12-89
COACHING STOCK                            .                                         6-11-89    29-01-90
.     .   . ...  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .f .



9-11-89
ACT I  h' rT                                                                                            P lanned              P lanmnei
start                   and
COMPLETE CENSUS OF COACHES ON HRZ (ME&TR)                                                      6-11-09    29-01-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
PERFORMANCE NORMS                                                                                6-11-09    19-11-92
.  ................. . ...... ........ ......
IHPRO'JE WAGON LOAIJDAILITY HSI BY 5%                                                         6-11-89                8-11-90
. .............. . ......  ........... ......
IMPROUE WAGON LORDABILITY HSI BY 10%                                                           9-11-90    19-11-91
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. . . .. ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .   .
WAGON LOADABILITY oS1 &O THERS BY 2.5%                                                         6-11-89               8-11-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .. . . . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
WAGON LOADABILITY OSI & OTHERS BY 5'                                                           9-11-90    19-11-91
..............   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  ..  .   . .   .   . .   .
WIKM/WAGON DAY IH USE TO 60                                                                    6-11-89                8-11-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . .. .. ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
WKM/WAGON DA' IN HUSE rO 72                                                                    9-11-90              19-11-91
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . .. .. ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ENGINE KM/PER DAY IN USE 310                                                                   6-11-89               8-11-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . .. .. ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ENGINE KH/ PER DIAY IN tUE TO 325                                                              9-11-90    19-11-91
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . .. .. ....  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ENGINE KMWPER DoY IN US;E TO 350                                                             20-11-91    19-11-92
............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  I .   .   ... .. ... ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   .  . .   .   . .   . .   .
ENGINE AUAILABILITY P75%                                                                       6-11-89               8-11-90
..............   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ... .. .. .. .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   .
SATS WAhDtJS Q1J NP.Z 6700 .                                                                   6-11-89              14-12-89
.          . . .              . ..,             .   .    .1   .   .   ...........I.......  .   .   .   .. .    .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .O   K
N



ArCTV  ITY                                                                                      P I .arnid           P 1 anned
5tart                 end
SATS WAGONS ON*I IIRZ 4700                                                            15-12-89    29-01-90
sArs WAGJNS OtN NRZ 2500                                                              30-01-90    26-03-90
........   . .   . .   . .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
ENJGINE FARILURE RATE TO BE 100 000 KM/FRILURE                                          6-11-89              8-11-90
.     .   . .    . .    . .    . .    . . . . . .  . . . ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
0 1 S                                                                                     6-11-89             8-11-90
.      .   . .   . .    . .    . .    . . . . ..   . .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .. . .   . .   .
0IS FOR DEPOTS ,STORE WARDS YARDS & RMS                                                 6-11-89              8-11-90
.      .   . .   . .    . . .  . ..  . . . . . ...  .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
WtAGON DESIGN                                                                            6-11-89    29-12-89
.    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  I  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   t
HSI WPGON TO 18.6 T AXLE LORD & 65 cub.m UOLUME    6-11-89                                                   1-12-89
.      .   . .   . .    . .    . .    . . .  . ..  . .. ...  .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .
OTHER WRGONS TO 18.6 T AXLE LOAD                                                        6-11-09    29-12-89
.      .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .- .-.-... . ... ..  ......  ......



- 8. (b) 
-115-
nurn
STAFF APRIA  WT
COe R IS  PROJECT
*11Zb P     _RPU     TARS
1no      an      16       1        1994      low
LOCOMT   AVAIAUlY  M
s s :Hurply Po.ltioe) I I
Mlm L.emttv.                                                 60       @0        @0
DE U0                             64        78 7n             76      75        is
Oth   _lee /                      47       55       a                65        as
Elkotric                           7        So      So       so       so        so
Stoo*                              so       45       10       10       so       so
-(o       En4(    1-      e tns 
Msm Loeametluv                                             so0w    60000    60000
u  0                             m        oo Loe_          eooo     sowo   sowo
4E 106                          18642    50000   50000    00000   50000   50000
Other bSetl a/                   458     10000   16000    15000   11000    11000
EletrIc                         51544    65000     500    50GWO      00   55000
Stoe                             718     100    15000    150        1i0       600
LOCOMOTIVE UTILISATII
s(E-t. pw  Oye/Lo  n Use):
th  Lete "e                                                  500s    600   600
Of 10                             446      460      410      460      460      460
Othr  Dle_l *l                    11       240       0       250     250       260
Eloarle                          8"        $76      400     400      400      400
-tem                                       ao SW    No       WC       so8      Soo
LOCOMOTIvES ON HIR
:I(ely Avers") s                  20       18       17        *        0        0
POON AVAXLA9ULT   ) b/
"lob Stez                          a        a        St                It n     S#
Dre.Sldm                            4       65       68       52       n        6n
"        Sided                     66       I        92   n 2   n 2             a
FISORM  SAONW  OmNU11
Treait                            71       S60      600          000 go        500
Oer                             4814    JOOO    W8o0    1m7          2400    2100
WACO UTUISATIO N/
$(Wave KmV _p. Se  tI  We)t       41        0       72                n        71
AVERU VASSLOD  (TIES
High sidd                          as     86.0     80.6    J9.6 0      .6     8.6
Drop Sided                         so     86.9    J9.6    89.9    86.9    89.9
POL Teuhc re                       2      ".4    26.4    26.4    20.4    26.4
e/ lasdlog I ooee.tv.s to be scwedW
b/ eubjeet to teses verif losetio
s/ pura  p.we  wept esIp



-116-
IVAZA                                  Annex 3-9
STCOF  R,ui8 n ROtsT                         Page 1 of 2
Estimated Project Cost
Lcal    Foreign       Total               Loeal    Foreign       Total
(11 atIIlloa)                             (llilon)
A. Locomotlve
A.1 Main Line Dlesel Locomotive.      -          O.10      50.00                 -       115.00      115.00
A.2 Repowering Shunting Lc-          2.15        6.00       6.15                4.04      18.60       18.76
A.3 DIell Loco Sporer Pa-                        240        1.20                           5.0  6. 06
Subtotal Part A: Sas Cto        2.16      56.10      60.35                4.94      133.66     131.80
Physical Contiagoneis        -         0.22        0.12                 -         0.61       0.51
Price Escaltion       0.07       11.62       2.79                2.20      27.19       29.42
TOTAL       3.12      70.24       78.36               7.13      101.55     168.73
8. Rollilng Stock
8.1 Oropsided Wagom                 16.00        6.00      24.00               41.40      13.80       55.20
8.2 Higholded Wagon.                20.90       10.30      31.20               46.07      23.69       71.76
3.3 Passengr Coahe                  10.00       10.00      20.00               28.00      23.00       46.00
Subtotal Past B: abs Costs     48.60      26.80      75.20              112.47       00.49     172.96
Physical Contingecsie       4.04       2.36        7.32               11.36       5.47      16.64
Prlce Esaeltion       24.26        5.60      30.05               58.60      13.84       69.14
TOTAL       6.10      34.46      112.6               179.68      70.80     268.96
C. Signals A Telecoe
C.1 CTC Reneel (Harare-Mutare)       2.21        4.75       7.00                5.16      10.98       16.10
C.2 Radio Equipment Replacement      0.10        0.90       1.00                0.26       2.07        2.30
C.S  Replscment of PA5X              0.60        0.60       1.30                1.15       1.84        2.99
C.4 Digital Troanmislson Link
(Head Office - Compter 8ueu)       0.10       0.90        1.00                0.23       2.07        2.30
Subtotal Part Ct Saae Costs   C    i        .5        10.80               6."9       16.91      28.89
Physical Contingelies       0.80       0.74        1.04                0.60       1.70       2.39
Price EscTlatiom       1.46        1. 4       1.0. 8.                        3.77        2.39
TOTAL       4.71       6.73       14.44               10.56      22.36      33.21
0. Plant and Equipment
0.1  Breakdown Cran                   -          2.60       2.60                 -         6.75        5.76
0.2 Plant Equipmet Replacement                              0.00
Mechanlcal Workshop      0.20       2.40        2.60                0.46       5.52       5.96
Eloetrlcl Workshop      0.10       0.60        o.70                0.6        1.83        1.61
Permanent Day Workhp         -         2.20        2.20                 -         6.0        5.06
Subtotal Pert 0: Uses Costs     0.30       7.70       8.00                0.09       17.71      16.40
Physleal Contingetlces      0.08       0.7         0.80               0.07        1.77       1.84
Price Escalatlon       0.16        1.7        1.8                 0.$5       3.9         4.26
TOTAL       0.48      10.18       10.66               1.10       2.41       24.52
E. Service Vehicles
E.1 Rail Vehicles                     -          1.65       1.66                 -         3.80        3.80
E.2 Road Vehicles                                S.10       3.10                           7.13        7.13
Subtotal Part :s Bas Cost       0.00       4.75       4.75                           10.98      10.93
Physical Conti agencis      -         0.24        0.24                 -         0.56       0.56
Peice Esocalton                    1.01       1.01
TAL         0.00       0.00       0.00                           13.60      13.60



-117-                                Annex 3-9
Etltmtod Projet3  Coes  (contd)                 Page 2 of 2
.L.oel    Foreoin     TotaI              Loal    Forolgn        Total
(lJSt   l llon)                          (Z m.leIon)
P. Electrification
F.1 Ext.nsion of Electrtfietions
Harare - Mt. Neepdeo             2.00       8.00        5.00               4.50       6.t0       11.60
Hare - Meac                      0.75       1.15        1.00               1.7S       2.65        4.37
F2. Overvoltage Correctlon           0.10       1.20       1.0                0.2S       2.76       2.9
Subtotal Prt F: Ebnn Coote     2.65        6.85       8.20               6.56       12.81      18.86
Physical Continpneloe       0.29       0.54       0.88                0.67       1.24       1.91
Prtce Ec ltlons        1.41       1.19       2.60                S.24       2.74       S.98
TOTAL       4.C5       7.08      11.68               10.47      10.28      26.76
a. Intoratlon Sysoe
0.1 Operating Into. Syeec_e          0.20       0.80       0.80                0.40       1.88       1.84
0.2 Acct Systeme SoftearolSupp.     0.10       1.00       1.10                0.28       2.80       2.53
Subtotal Pert 0: Base Costa    0.80        1.60       1.50               0.69        8.68       4.37
Physical Continoeloe        0.08       0.10       0.10               0.07        0.87       0.44
Price Ec latlone       0.15       0.8        0.51                O.8        0.88       1.17
TOTAL       0.48       2.12       2.e0                1.lG       4.88       5.08
H. Technlcal Assistance
H.1 Hnt. Q volopen t Support        1.00       4.70       6.80                8.68      10.81       14.49
H.2 Supervieory Dev. Support         1.00       2.00       8.00                2.80       4.60       6.90
H.8 Substitutional Assietane         2.70       5.60       6.20                0.21      12.06      18.86
H.4 Staff Turnover Contingency       O.$0       0.60       0.90                0.69       1.88       2.07
====== _ 6    _ 29           10_4                        -_;           42
Subtotal Pert H:      Cost     5.60       12.60      18.40              12.88       29.44      4.8.2
Phycical Contin enclee      0.68       1.28       1.04                1.29       2.94       4.23
Price ec l tione       2.78       2.85       5.68                6.89       06.6       12.05
TOTAL       8.04      16.68      25.67               20.56      as.94      59.50
I  Training
I.1 Secondent< I Fellowhipe           -         1.50       1.60                 -         3.45       8.45
1.2 NRZ School:
Asst. for Specllzed Coureon       0.25       0.65       0.90                0.58       1. 0        2.07
Tralning Equlpmnt        -         0.50       0.50                 -         1.15       1.1S
Subtotal Part I: Bee Cost"     0.25        2.66       2.90               0.68        6.10       6.67
Phyicel Contingencies      0.08       0.26       0.29                0.O0       0.00       0.67
Price Ec lations       0.12       0.69       0.71                0.28       1.86       1.68
TOTAL       0.40       8.50       8.90                0.92       6.06       8.97
J. Studies
J.1 Loco. Maintenanc Audit           0.10       0.a0       0.40                0.28       0.69       0.92
J.2 Manpower Study                   0.80       0.40       0.70                o.69       0.92       1.61
J.8 MIS Strategy Study               0.07       0.10       0.17                0.16       0.28       0.80
J.4 Ad hoc Studlee                   0.10       0.80       0.40                0.28       0.69       0.92
Subtotal Part J: _se Co        0.57        1.10       1.07               1.81        2.68       3.64
Physical Coati _ cleice     0.08       0.11       0.17                0.14       0.28       0.89
Price Eaeloatone       0.28       0.25       0.86                0.64       0.56       1.22
TOTAL       0.91       1.40       2.87                2.09       8.8        5.4S
Project Total Se Cota.   68.7          127.60     191.67              146.90     298.94     440.04
Phyuical Conti    iel0     6.24       6.70      12.94               14.85      15.41      29.78
Price KeceTatim       81.56      27.22      56.e0               72.68      00.2B      182.92
Total Project Coe      101.69     161.7      268.41              288. 9      89  68    60.52



-118_                   AnneX 3-10
ZIMABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ef    ---.--------------------
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal
Year             Quarter    Date                 Disbursed          Cumulative
1991                 3    March 31                   0.00              0.00
4     June 30                  0.00              0.00
1992                 1    Sept. 30                  0.00               0.00
2     Dec. 31                  0.00              0.00
3    March 31                  1.41              1.41
4     June 30                  1.10              2.51
1993                 1    Sept. 30                   1.25              3.76
2     Dec. 31                  1.25              5.02
3    March 31                  0.66              5.68
4     June 30                  2.04              7.72
1994                 1    Sept. 30                  2.32              10.04
2     Dec. 31                  2.32             12.35
3    March 31                  0.94             13.29
4     June 30                  2.11             15.40
1995                 1    Sept. 30                   2.35             17.74
2     Dec. 31                  2.33             20.07
3    March 31                  2.47             22.54
4     June 30                  2.34             24.88
1996                 1    Sept. 30                  1.66              26.54
2     Dec. 31                  1.63             28.18
3    March 31                  3.18             31.36
4     June 30                  2.41             33.78
1997                 1    Sept. 30                  2.41              36.19
2     Dec. 31                  2.41             38.60



- -119-
Annex 3-11
ZnBAE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND INDUSTRIAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
WEED-KILLERS AND CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS IN USE ON NRZ
Track: Weed-Killing ComDounds
Arsenal                  1812   litres per annum
Track X 802 W.P.         1510   kg. per annum
Diuron 802 W.P.          3084   kg. per annum
Krovar 12.5 granular   29980  kg. per annum
Agrowett                 266.5  kg. per annum
These compounds have been environmentally cleared for use.
Workshops s Cleaning Chemicals in Use
External cleaning of coaehes
and locomotives ................... ICM, Cernol Detergent
Bogies and engine components .. .... Bosch tank: Caustic Soda
Contractors cleaning               Ma............ .  gsolect (made by Magnus)
Electrical Components ............. Ardrox 57
Carbon stripper                    Ardrox 670
Engine cleaning                    Chemserve 48



-120-                         Annex 4-1
page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
HISTORIC FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
INCOME STATEMENTS
(ZS million)
1985     1986     1987      1988      1989
Revenues
Rail: Freight                           207.38   224.33   222.25   221.37   227.43
s Coaching                          14.81    17.22    21.96    20.76    23.99
s Misc.                              8.95      9.24    10.07    12.50    15.84
=_33M =      n _ _      _
231.14   250.79   254.28   254.63   267.26
RMS Revenues                              5.87     7.05    10.83    12.59    14.14
tu-. -m -                             m   m
Total Revenues                          237.01   257.84   265.11   267.22   281.40
Operating Costs
Rail Costss Direct                      194.39   219.11   238.10   239.43   262.49
RMS Costs: Direct                         7.51     8.07    10.38    11.27    12.28
AdminlGeneral Costs                      60.36    70.45    73.90    69.45    81.54
Total Operating Costs                   262.26   297.63   322.38   320.15   356.31
Net Operating Income                    (25.25)  (39.79)  (57.27)  (52.93)  (74.91)
Net Rental Incame                         3.52     3.76      4.12     5.27      5.60
Interest                                 39.17    45.50    52.54    51.88    48.39
ProvisionslExchange Losses                7.42    10.16    18.67    13.88    15.99
Net Income                              (68.32)  (91.69) (124.36) (113.42) (133.69)
ini    inm         u    0nii



--121-                        Annex 4-1
page 2 of 3
HISTORIC FINANCIAL PERPORMANCE
BALANCE SHEETS
(Z$ million)
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets                        401.51   399.04   388.80   382.09   374.75
Current Assets
Inventories                              63.21    68.83    72.82    81.66    88.67
Debtors a/                               40.42    59.43    84.43    85.16    79.29
Cash and Bank Balances                    6.63     6.62      5.66     5.55      3.94
-           --31~           c -    m      m
110.26   134.88   162.91   172.37   171.90
Current Liabilities
Creditors bI                             59.66    97.40   117.01   123.84   139.03
Provisions                               27.21     9.70    17.48    15.62    16.23
Bank Overdraft                           70.73    89.68   100.52   121.30    99.13
_agn     inm    inin    m              mm
1e7.60   196.78   235.01   260.76   254.39
Net Current Assets                      (47.34)  (61.90)  (72.10)  (88.39)  (82.49)
Unitary System Assets                     5.11     5.89      4.34     7.98      8.96
Total Assets                            359.28   343.03   321.04   301.68   301.22
=__ =       =         -- =
LIABILITIES
Capital A/C                              67.88    25.46    37.09    34.33    26.95
Govt. Loans                             213.06   242.91   273.60   269.75   273.84
External Loans                          191.69   221.16   198.35   195.01   192.57
Loans (Gross)                           404.75   464.07   471.95   464.76   466.41
Current Portions Loans                   21.83    23.13    25.23    27.86    31.84
Net Long-Term Loans                     382.92   440.94   446.72   436.90   434.57
Govt. Subsidy Backlog                    91.52   123.37   162.77   169.55   160.31
Total Liabilities                       359.28   343.03   321.04   301.68   301.21
Debt/Capital Employed (t)                   87       95        94       94        94
Current Ratio                             0.70     0.69      0.69     0.66      0.68
a/ including, from 1986, payments outstanding for track rehabilitation work on Mozambique
bI including current portion of long tenm debt, deferred principal repayments (1987/88);



-122-                         Annex 4-1
page 3 of 3
HISTORIC FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
CASHFLOW STATEMENTS
(2$ million)
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989
Cashflow from Operations:
Net Operating Income                   (21.73)  (36.03)  (53.15)  (47.66)  (69.31)
Depreciation                            14.76    15.54    18.27    17.38    17.76
Gross Cashflow                          (6.97)  (20.49)  (34.88)  (30.28)  (51.55)
Investment in
Net Working Capital                     (3.75)   (8.24)   22.46    (5.88)   19.18
n                           W Z   _   a=
(10.72)  (28.73)  (12.42)  (36.16)  (32.37)
Capital Expenditures                    30.05    44.95    19.53    12.53    12.98
Net Operating Cashflow                 (40.77)  (73.68)  (31.95)  (48.69)  (45.35)
Financing Flows
Debt Services
Interest                               (39.17)  (45.50)  (52.54)  (51.88)  (48.39)
Principal                              (21.02)  (27.11)  (20.92)  (27.97)  (30.75)
... =====   ==mm _           =m      m==__
(60.19)  (72.61)  (73.46)  (79.85)  (79.14)
New LT Debt:
Government                              26.78    30.80    26.99       0.00     4.53
External                                 8.47      2.30     0.11     1.77      4.81
m_In     =-==    =_          cmaIn 
35.25    33.10    27.10      1.77     9.34
Increase in Overdraft                   18.60    19.00    10.80    20.80   (22.20)
Net Debt Financing                       (6.34)  (20.51)  (35.56)  (57.28)  (92.00)
Government Subsidy                      31.30    60.00    80.00   100.00   120.00
Net External Financing                  24.96    39.49    44.44    42.72    28.00
Reduction of NR2 Cash                    2.28      0.00     0.96      0.10     1.62
Debt Service Accruals,
Extra-ordinary Cash Inflows             13.53    34.19   (13.45)    5.87    15.73
_           e      _   _ 22=
Total Financing                         40.77    73.68    31.95    48.69    45.35
a   0=~  = _zzz==    _ =



-123-
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 4
SUCOUID RAILWAYS 11R.130
AssumDtions Used in Financial Analysil
(A)  Generalt  (i)  Projections of income statements, balance sheets and
cash flows are in current prices up to 1996 and in
constant 1976 prices thereafter;
(ii) The projections of NRU's operating cost structure under
different efficiency scenarios are in 1990 Zimbabwean
dollars (with the exception of depreciation and expendi-
tures on technical assistance, training and studies
which are in current Zimbabwean dollar terms). These
projections are inflation-adjusted when incorporated in
the other financial projections.
(iii) Full printout and diskettes of financial and operational
analysis are in the project f les.
(B) Revenuess
Ci)  Freight Revenues: The traffic forecasts (Annex 5.2) are converted
into a detailed comodity-by-comnodity traffic density matrix from
which average commodity hauls are derived.  The traffic forecasts
are lagged by three years to reflect NRZ's operating capacity.
Individual commodity tariffs are based on rates extant at November
1989, adjusted for the individual comiodity-by-commodity increases
announced in December 1989. A 202 across-the-board increase is
applied to these tariffs to reflect July 1, 1990 tariff increases.
A further 201 across the board is applied from January 1991 to
reflect planned (and Government approved) tariff increases at that
time. Overall freight revenues are thereafter increased by 101
p.a. to reflect domestic inflation.
(ii)  PassenRer, Coaching and Miscellaneous Revenues:  The effective
capacity and traffic patterns for passenger, prrcel and mail
service is assumed unchanged.   Revenues  are based on NRZ's
projected 1989/90 revenues from these services adjusted for
increases in rates implemented in December 1989 and July 1990 and
are subsequently adjusted for inflation (101 p.a. to 1996).
Coaches amortisation revenues are the annualised capital cost of
coaches to be procured under the project based on a discount rate
of 9.751 (onlending rate to NRZ) and a term of 20 years.
Miscellaneous revenues, comprising mainly demurrage and storage are
as projected by NRZ for 1989/90, increased by 182 to reflect the
increases implemented in December 1989 and inflation adjusted from
1991.



-124-
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 4
(iii)  RHSt RMS revenue is not independently projected.  It is assumedune
1990) that RMS cash flow (excluding intra-corporate management
charges) is constant in real terms throughout the period.
(iv)  Rental Incomes  No account is taken of rental income which has
recently been of the order of 2$ 5 million p.a.   NRZ  is
implementing a home-ownership scheme for its work force under which
its stock of houses is gradually transferred to existing tenants.
This would mean a gradual decline in rental income as property
sales are made.   However, this would be offset (to an unknown
extent) by profits on disposal of property assets. No account is
taken of projected housing rehabilitation expenditures.
(C) Operating Costs
(i) Fuel Oil: Fuel consumption by diesel locomotive class is projected
for each class of diesel locomotive based on projected numbers of
locomotives per class per year, availability rates and engine-
kilometers performed. Fuel consumption rates are based on historic
consumption rates per engine-km per diesel locomotive class
adjusted for any anticipated improvements in fuel efficiency. Fuel
oil prices are taken as Z$O.S6Iliter escalated at the rate of
inflation.
(ii) Electricity for Traction: The rate of electricity consumption is
based on recent historic data of 21.4 Kwhr/engine-km. Engine-Km
performed by the electric locomotive fleet are derived from the
traffic density matrix assuming that with the project. train loads
on the electrified sections will be 1700 gross tons/train and,
without the project, an average of 1500 gross tons/train. Empty
movements are assumed to be 700 gross tons/train with or without
the project, which is consistent with passing loop capacity. The
ratio of train-engine-kms to engine-kms is assumed at the historic
level of 1.06. The cost per kwhr of electricity is assumed at the
1990 rate of Z$0.08 escalated for inflation during the six year
project implementation period.
(iii) Steam Locomotive Fuel and Waters The average consumption of the
past three (3) years of water and coal has been used.   It is
assumed that the fuel efficiency of the steam locomotives will
deteriorate at the rate of 3? per annum. Coal and water are in
1989/90 prices adjusted for inflation.
(iv)   Maintenance Spare Parts:  Maintenance spare part expenditures for
steam locomotives are assumed constant in real terms.  Electric
locomotive spare part requirements are based on the scheduled
maintenance load for 1990 to 1993. Thereafter they are based on
the normalized consumption for the last three years and varied with
train engine kilometers performed after 1993. Diesel locomotive
spare parts are based on the scheduled maintenance and depot shed
requirements proposed by NR2 and reviewed at appraisal.



-125- .
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 4
(v) Track Maintenance Materials: Requirements for track maintenance
materials over the project period are based on 1989 requirements
adjusted for changes in gross tonne kilometers (6TIXMs) performed
with the exception of the usage for 1990191 which is based on the
programmed workload as at June 1990.
(vi) Telecommunications and Signal Maintenances The material require-
ment for maintenance of telecommunications and signalling
facilities are assumed to increase at a real rate of 31 p.a. from
the 1989 level until the improvements under way and under the
project are fully completed (1996).
(vii) Passenger Coach Maintenance: The material requirements for coach
maintenance are based on 1989 costs of such maintenance adjusted
for the estimated non-labor components of such costs. Spare parts
content of such costs are projected to increase at a real rate of
32 p.a.
(viii) Locomotive Hiress The number of locomotives required to be hired
is derived as part of the assessment of diesel locomotive require-
ments. The cost is taken as the current (June 1990) rate of Rand
1800 per day converted to Zimbabwean Dollars at 1990 rates and
adjusted for inflation.
(ix) Wagon Hiress The number of wagons hired with the project is as
agreed under the OIP targets.   The numbers hired without the
project are derived from the wagon requirements analysis. The hire
rates agreed from July 1990 of Rand 26.7 per day, converted into
Zimbabwean Dollars and adjusted for inflation, are used.
(z)  Building and Plant Maintenance Costs;  These are based on the
materials content of the total expenditure on such items in
1987/88, adjusted for inflation to 1989/90 and escalated for
subsequent inflation. It is assumed that there is an underlying
deterioration in such costs of 2.5 p.a. frow 1990/91.
(xi) Station Utilities: These are costs for lighting, heating and water
at stations. They are assumed constant in real terms.
(xii) Administrative Services: The materials costs content of admini-
strative services and the value of purchased administrative
services are based on a detailed assessment of requirements for
1990191 prepared by NR2 at the request of a Bank post-negotiations
mission.
(xiii)  (a)  Labor Costs: Labor costs are derived from Na2's payroll data
for each Department for the latest year for which
comprehensive data were available at appraisal (1987188).
These base labor costs were increased by 562 for all grades
to reflect pay increases to June 1990. Overtime payments are
consolidated into basic pay at the rates experienced in
1987/88.  An additional 101 is applied to total wages to



_-126-
Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 4
reflect the practice of paying an annual salary supplement
equivalent to one mouth's remuneration.
(b) 60Z of the traffic and 40S of the mechanical, electrical and
signals engineering departments' wage costs are assumed to
vary with the level of traffic activity (train-engine-kas in
the case of engineering). However, total wages are assumed
to be invariant with activity for the first three years to
allow implementation of changes in working practices that will
lead to curtailment of unnecessary generation of overtime.
(c) All other departmental labor costs are assumed to be invariant
with the level of activity.
(d) Staff cost-savings: are worked out on the basis of a total
2500 staff shed in at the average wage cost of staff in Grades
4 - 12.
(e)  Welfare costs:  welfare payments are assumed constant in 1990
Zimbabwe Dollars and are based on 1989190 figures.
(xiv)  Degreciations  depreciation is on an historic cost basis and is
assumed to be the 1988/89 level declining at 4? p.a. in the without
project case plus depreciation on project assets at NRZ's standard
rates in the with project case. The profile of expenditures on
project assets and related depreciation is shown at Tables 1 and
2 to this Annex.
(D) Debt Service: (a) Pre-prolect debt service is based on the profile of
historic debt; (b) Project Debt: is assumed to be at 9.75Z for a term of 20
years with a grace period on repayments of five years.  This compares to
standard GOZ terms to NR3 of 9.75? for 35 years, including a grace period on
repayments of five years.
(E) Working capital: Trade debtors (accounts receivable) are set at 152 of
annual revenues in the with project case and at the historic rate of 20? in
the without project case.   Inventories are set at 115S of materials usage
(excludes purchased services or asset hires) in the with-out project case and
at 75? of such costs from 1994 in the with project case. Creditors (accounts
payable) are set at 30? of working expenses in both with or without project
cases, which is consistent with on-going payment practices.
(F) Others (a) No assumption is made as to the pattern of future work or
payment for outstanding work on the Mozambican railways. (b) Provisions for
costs to be incurred are difficult to predict and none have been made in the
projections. (c) No changes are envisaged in unitary systems' assets (jointly
owned assets held by NRZ on the dissolution of the Unitary Railways formerly
linking Zambia Railways, Botewana Railways and NRZ). (d) Average bank/cash
balances earn interest at 6? p.a. and short-term borrowing carry interest at
12? p.a.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORtT
SrCO RAILWAYS PROJECT
CO11POSITION OF EXPENDITURE ON PROJCT FIXE ASSETS
AND PROJECT ASSETS DEPRECIATINU PROFIL
(USI million)
1991      1992      1996      1994      1095      199        109       109       10on      2000
NMm Fined Assets
Losomotiw.                0.00      6.15     12.51      1.8.5     15.26     20.65      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Coed,.                    0.00      8l.19     5.02      5.66       6.42      6.66      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
wage"              ~~~0.00    6.61     14.00     10.02     16.27     25.56      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
CTC.                      0.00      1.10      1.72       1.94      2.17      2.96      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Radio.                    0.00      0.15      0.24      0.27       0.29      0.40      0.00      0.100      0.00      0.00
PAIl                      0.00      0.20      0.82      0.66       0.40      0.56      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Trans. Lim.               0.00      0.15      0.24      0.27       0.29      0.40      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Craine                    0.00      0.89      0.59      0.65       0.72      0.96      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Plant/umad,n.ry           0.00      0.65      1.81       1.44      1.59      2.15      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
V.1,1.1*: Roil            0.00      0.24      0.87      0.41       0.45      0.81      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
V.1,1.1*: ROWd            0.00      0.45      0.70      0.77       0.65      1.16      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Info. System              0.00      0.29      0.46      0.52       0.57      0.77,     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
EI.otwi igtiolon          0.00      1.26      2.08      2.27       2.54      8.51      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
0.00     25.25     89.51     44.45     49.64     06.56       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
26 Eqsalval.es (million)  0.00     56.06     90.67    102.24    114.68    157.09       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Deprsiatioa:th Um Ast.
Leo..              ~~~~~     ~~0.00  0.00  0.00   0.89      1.15      1.96       2.85      2.85      2.85      2.8511
ConChs                    0.00      0.06      0.21      0.85       0.51      0.716     0.78      0.78      0.78       0.78
Wagons                    0.00      0.22      0.57       0.97      1.4       2.07      2.07      2.07       2.07      2.07
CTC                       0.00      0.O0      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.49      0.49      0.40       0.49
Radiost                   0.00      0.02      0.06       0.09      0.14      0.19      0.19      0.19       0.17      0.14
PASX                      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.26      0.26      0.26       0.26      0.29
Tram.. Line               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Co-NW                     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.22      0.22      0.22       0.22      0.22
pleast/111MMnry           0.00      0.06      0.14       0.24      0.85      0.49      0.49      0.49       0.49      0.49
V.11.1.., RailI           0.00      0.02      0.04      0.07       0.10      0.14      0.14      0.14      0.14       0.14
V.1,1.1*: Road            0.00      0.06      0.16       0.27      0.40      0.56      0.5so     0.56      0.50       0.40
Info. System              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.52      0.52      0.52      0.52       0.52
E.octrlioiation           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.OD      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
0.00      0.46      1.16      2.610     4.06      6.94       6.06      8.08      7.99      7.81
Z6 Equivaleews (milliona)  0.00     1.06      2.71      0.17       0.84     15.74     16.46     16.48      16.26     17.95



-128-
STAfF APPtAAL REPRT                                   Annex 4-3
SECOO RALAYS PROJECT                                 Page 1 of 6
W1M  PROJECT: STRUClRE 0F OPEUATD4 com
(1960 Z 000)
1Ion        1m          1668         1994        1665        1996         1667
Ful Ol                        8 7086        642        8660        40182        85208       814          8
Labe OIf/Rumnin  Spa..         4882         4806        4842          001        4508        5OU          50
M.Ilt. Spar.                   9477         6602        6261          60         6452        046          6C2
Loco H1ir                    14185        15162       10118        6681            0           0            0
Electriclty (Tractton)         8817         8817        8817        8171         891         88818
Elec Low Ibint Spr.             o61          S61         801         274          267         290          804
Sem Leco Fuel/tr               50961        6114        0262        6455         m88         1117         7006
Stean Leem M.Int Spar.         2000         2000        2000        2000         2000        2000         2000
Wagon M.I.t  ats              10496        10496       10496        10496       104#6       10490        10496
WaSge Hilro                  84109         4109       81l1o       26262        25686       2688         2588
Pax Coach.e MHI.t.             16n         1069        1674        1676         168n        1667         1602
Track Malat. Mat.              4600         9489        9489       10279        10966       11228        11228
Elee. lt.r. M.i.t               244          244         244         259          260         257          2S5
Tel/SigveI ldint Mat            670          t10         746         766          82C         o8n          076
Bldg a Plant Hai.tenance       2917         2660         04         8141         S220        8800         s8o6
Statton Ut I ltl-.              1402        1402        1402        1402         1402        1402         1402
Admin Sertlc  (mate)          8700         8974        9061       6O88          9417        660          Om66
Total Material Coet          142220       147289      148469       186487      124046      129645       129755
(centlnued next page)



-129-
STAFF AMISAL RIPOIs                                  Annex 4-3
hICO D RUM" PrJCT                                    Page 2 of 6
WTH PROJT SlRIUCIE OF PERAID  COO TS (coatd)
(1960 Zs 000)
1991        1998       1$           1994       low          in$         1607
Labor Cost.:
Traffic
Vet with Activity          56m         Sa5         57m        46202         01U        5178        51m
Fixed                     87472        87472       87472      87472        8742        87472       8742n
Adaln/Plannin/Control
Var with Activity              0           0           0           0           0
FIxd                       1247        186s4       1474        1424        1474        1424        14274
Socut*ity/m/mIh
Var wlth Ativity               0           0           0           0           0
Flxed                     21114        21114       21114       21114       21114      21114        21114
Civil Eng
Vaer with Actvlty              0           0           0           0           0
Fied                       847         84067       84667       8466        8466        846         8466
Mec/Elec/Sig us
Was with Activity          8050        80520       N0M2        87166       861o        466         4882
Fluid                      4761        4862       46444        48444       4644        48444       4444
supplise
VY  Ith Aaivtity               0           0           0           0           0           0           0
filxed                      68          568         5a          g8          5a8         56          S
Total Labor Costs            26428       26667       27081      286415       170         2216ss       2MS
Staff Cost Saving:                0           0           0       1464       2gm          8n24        87124
Welfae Payment                21400       21400       21400       21400       11400       21400       21400
Total C"h op. Coot.          4820        4601        486290      41548       81154       8S60        8
TA/Training                       0        6s         18246       14604       166         22m             0
Dope.: Hitoric AWee           1sO0O       1580        14746       14165       1850        1804            4
Projfet Asset              0        1054        2714        6171        6640       15787       164
yotal                  16000      16414        17460       20n2        22660      216          806
Total Operatinl Cost        4U4          468009      46_M       480668       46186       447863      427180
LenirftoVsr. Costs
:(Fla. awl cap coot):       207468      206648      16          1627        168646      16516        I9616
Long-Run V.r. Ceste/          0.086       0.086      0.087        0.080       0.061       0.081       0.030
HUW
Soure: Mission projectIoe  base  on N31 dA;



-130-                      Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 6
1i~m           Ma    3      i ifi U |  i   fl     g
it ;
X~        .11        a |  I f g| !   *  g          
g    iii,   Rr   it I'1II  i*!1i 
0gS ~        ~~ AO         A          A s  i I 



SECON RAYAVS PRJCT
WITH MRJECT: C*3SWUL  PROJECTION
flTH~(Z Ecscn
191        iu        199         19s4      lw          low        1997       199t       o          2000
Rat I SeWeRn.            490w,      f6,0     * 006,14,    681,600    926,0011  1,058,442   1,060,024  1,000,624  1,060,624  1,060,024
Variable Cost.
mterli                  1,541    180,725    150,431    10212    160.070    194,590    16,100    105,160          5,190    15,160
Lb_t                   90,706    101,976    112,17      122,091    1448       18,297     0,297      1,1F,97    160,297    166,297
22,247    252,700    m,604    21,878    804,6007    852,606    85,456    858,460    85,45          86,456
Coatrlb.tlon Msrg)ln:Rei I   271,606    8466     6,589    540,486    6,491    700,54       727,867    m,86       727,86     727,867
Ceoltributi. Margin: 5W    4,500      4,060      5,454      6,000       ,000      7,260      7,260      ,2         ?,20       7,260
Ctrlib. Mbegi,s, Total   276,116    850,844    891,994    540,485    626,1    707,0        74,67      784,027    784,627    74,6
F1xed Costs              247,000    m,29       806,707    8161091    826,101    848,802    846,464    846,464   A8,4.1#    88,464
Exestlosal Coot                0      3,579     18,248     14,904     15,52      22,798          0          0          0          0
Gram ChflWO               29,110     64,467     71,979    214,641    264,478    886,714     8,162    86,02    t86,62    J88,162
Not Inv In Working Cap.    00,947    19,189      6,667    (46,144)    12,8,6     15,288      2,205          0          0          0
Free Ca, I o,             (87,111)    45,270    06,812    260,794    27,02    821,491    868,956    886,12    86S,12    886,162
Cpital Expenditure.            0     56,075     90,678    102,286    114,662    157,068          0          0          0          0
Gross Operating Cbfleo   (87,681)   (12,797)   (25, 61)   165,549    157,450    168,798    868,958   t8J,162    UO,162    88,162
Intoert R eteied           4,622        512          0      6,68      18,726     26,967     86,619     44,72      52,817     60,754
mot Operating CehtIor     (88,20)   (12,165)   (25,601)   161,412    176,175    102,750    420,576    480,986    4t8,979    446,917
Financing
Equlty/8ub1ldy Backlog   255,000      2,507      8,956      4,489      4,991      6,900          0          0          0          0
Mm Debt                      0     62,899     97,886    109,819    122,387    166,180          0          0          0          0
Dlvdend PaId                   0          0          0          0          0    12,689    186,646    162,708    199,190    205,925
Inuret Pald               42,902     87,420     41,224     45,419     54,642     06,490     60,719     79,280     77,209     74,076
Debt Retirement.          40,628     41,111     40,707    21,9u4      19,2       19,195     19,194     22,900     28,7n      85,86
Net External Fla.        171,245    (18,601)    19,261     46,8O      583,381    (72,490)  (266,562)  (294,089)  (305,126)  (815,964)  ,D
Cam  Accretlo%           186,087    (25,916)    (6,279)   211,606    229,868    120,256    14,015    166,049    183,064    180,953       x
Net Finowing              88,209     12,265    25,561   (186,412)  (178,175)  (192,750)  (420,57M   (480,666)  (486,979)  (440,917)



STAFF APPRAISAL IEPIRT
RAILWA  It CPOCT
WMH POJECTt PRECTION OF SAAACE SHUTS
lw        1360       136        19t2       109#       1364       1936       196        1367       193        139      am
Nint IO   ses
Groep Masse            162.64     12.64     162.64     165.98 1    Ml.lS     176.93     136.50     192.40     192.49     192.49     102.40    162.49
Unlt Ansabel H"stors*     212.11     20.86      198.8      16.0o      6.25      140.10     185.61     12.4      109.4       0W.92      06.87     75.29
Project         0.00       0.00       0.00      58.78     16.67      22.89      815.6      456.63     440.1?     411.72    408.46     5.50
Toal Fixed ASe.           874.75      72.00     856.00     597.0      471.07     652.9      644.      177.50     742.81     712.18     6682-82      .2
Not Wetting Capia
Ilnventies                 68.67      90.7?     112.01     180.64     141.22     108.70     115.26    18.77      152.20     182.20     182.20    1J2.20
Debbt.lt 57.65                       t62.6       0.04      107."9     116.72     118.76     126.61     14.20     14 .20      148.20    146.20    14 20
Credlt.s                  107.20     165.00     142.57     150.00     178.01L    162.48     136.47    210.86     210.5"     210.58     210.66    210.69
-            _m    -    _m    _                         --    _m                                                          m -  _
89.12     -6.67      00.2a      79.47      36.18      80.09      52.89      67.02      09.2       609.2      609.2    g9.02
Corraft Portion LTD        81.64      48.00      41.11      40.79      21.94      19.88     10.19      1.16       22.00     21.74       865.3     42.14  1.6
Sab O, drat               93.18      182.00       0.00      17.86      28.06      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00  'N
Be" BalS"too/Co"            8.94       2.50       e.54       0.00      0.00      138.15     41T.60    587.94     671.96     66.01      941.36   1072.6
Prevlulers               l.2Q       17.00      17.00      17.00      17.00      17.00      17.00      17.00     17.00      17.00      17.00     1t.00
Dw from CF                 2.64       20.44      20.44      20.44      20.44      20.44     20.44      20.44      20.44      20.44      20.44     20.44
ULlterc SytCm               0.36       4.22       4.22       4.22      4.22       4.22       4.22       4.22       4.22       4.22       4.22      4.22
mm            m   mm   -                   -           mm   mm   mmm m
Total Net Ast.            801.21    200.49      801.86     420.62     519.26    760.45    1108.22    1867.01    140-.15   1S".60    16.80    71e.44
(continued on net pop)
41-
C'
o..  t



STAFF APMAI.L wn
SECOND R55W PROJECT
KMh PR tts POJECTW   UAlON   MMWS (cond
(Z *I  III*)
199        m90o0     1991        190        am         Iso"       am         1e         17         am         9m9       2C0
Capital A_cent (B/F)       2 .96       0.49       0.49       0.49       0.49       0.40        0.40       0.49       0.49       0.49       0.49     0.49
ROtIWd Pflta                0.00       0.00      -25.19     -14.01      -0.76     1S5.00     N9O.0      400.19     018.02     742.01     074.6    aOz2.U
Equity I.J.ti..             0.00       0.00       0.00       2.61       0.46       10.26      16.09      22.79      22.79      22.79      22.70    22.79
Capital le  LT be"          0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00
Bea OwMdrft bpeymaa         0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00
Total E1uity Capitol       2.96        0.49     -24.70      -11.0      0.19      106.59     897.01     612.47     680.C0     705.87     608.10   10a-.4
Leoaw.Pr. Pro) (Oet)      2n.84      800.40     206.88      200.32     2E0.55     271.59     258.06     25U.40     248.55     2U4.21     224.56   2n4.c6
tOth.                 102.57     210.00     175.07     142.40     111.45      98.47      87.65      78.08      00.51      56.94      49.87    t980.
406.41     616.46     473.00     482.70     302.00     870.06     880.78     J81.54    S82.84      290.15     178.09   264.70
Loam: Pr.j (O.t)            0.00       0.00       0.00      20.01     S5.94       02.58      187.01     200.22     200.22     I108.4     19S.25   1900.0
tOUb r                 0.00       0.00       0.00       41.70     106.60     170.68     254.88     859.8S1    85.81      8S5.97     851.00   341.08
_         --m- _-  __                                                       
0.00       0.00       0.00      02.40     169.74     209.06     801.00    659.52    659.62        65.61     546..217   50.10
Current Portien            81.84      48.00      41.11      40.70      21.94      19.88       19.19      19.19      22.90      28.74      85.8S    42.14
Total Nat Learr           484.57     478.46     482.70     454.40      520.70    019.70      722.90     671.06     040.90      20.28     704.6   742.72
Govt Sutibldy fBuleo      tOO.81     288.00      25.00      28.00      28.00      28.00      298.00      26.00      2e.00     20.00       20.00    20.00
LT De*ts AdJut nat          0.00       9.54      11.25      11.28      11.28      11.28       11.20      11.28      11.28      11.29      11.20    11.20
Total Liablittlt.          01.n      200.49     891.86     426.02      519.26     709.45    1106.22    1867.61    1409.16    1569.01    1066.80  I7Ma.44
DbtCapital IEp.            0 9.27      o."      108.48      99.9       906.70      76.01      62.99      01.70      56.06      50.50      46.42    40.5
Rtetrn ee Capital Emplyav (l) M4.00               5.94      12.19      12.28      85.7"       8.9        27.01      2.07       24.21      22.71    2.48
Pat e   R Eqity ()                                0.2        2.06       2.99      20.09       29.82      24.00      22.75      21.80      21.10    20.00
ca
a,



-134-
ZI IBB                                        Annex 4-4
STAFF N AZ    L                                      Page 1 of 6
SECOND RAILWYS PROIECT
WM  PROJECT & CONSVED bRAFFIC: StRUCIW  OF OPRATING COSTS
(in9 o 0n0)
1001        1002        19F1004                 1005        1906        1007
-1          lo           o          is         im           -o          ISO
Fuel Otl                      87088      8J62         m60         88151       8208        80894       80984
Lube  ilI/Running Sper.       42          4806        4842        4812        458         F0862       C02
Waist. Spres                   9477        Om02        a1          MO           452           0        0.00
L4o HIre*                   14185       15162      lOll            0           0           0           0
Electricity (Traction)         817         817      8816.5         8817        2650        2695        2927
Eloh Loco iaint Spre            So1        s01          061         207         247         247         258
Stea Loco Fuel/Water          5691         0114       022           4556       an8         617         7006
Stem Loe Moist Spare.          2000        2000        200         2000        200         2000    2000.00
Wagon  a int vate             10498       10496       10498       1049J       10496       10496    104906.00
Wagon Hire                   84109       84109       81180       g262        2ca88       25388       2658
Pax Coache  Waint.             10S6       l09         1874        1070        1068        18s         1092
Track Wait. Mate              4400        94809       0480        0m2         9002        O008     9080.25
El.e. late. Waint               244         244      244.88         257         262         262         262
Tol/Signale Waint Mat           676         710         746         78m         622         Su8      676.20
Bids a Plant  ainteance        201?        2090        ao04        6141        8220       a880         m88g
station Uti I ltlee            1402        1402        1402        1402        1402        1402     1402.00
Ad1 n Service. (Mate)          6700        0074       9061         O288        9417        0606       9079
Total Material Costn         142220      147288      148490      121985      1210920     11018       110687
(conti awd next page)



211340                                      Annex 4-4
STFF  PAISAL REPOT                                 Page 2 of 6
SECO  RRALYS PJECT
WIMH PROJECT & CONSTRMIED  OUTPUT: SIRUCTIRE OF OPERATING COSTS (oontd)
(199 23 000)
1too       1992        Is"         1994       105         199ff       1007
Labor Costs:
Traffic
Ver with Activity         U7U         53758     U5875        820         80203     8g636        g8306
Fixed                     37472       74n        87472       87472      37472       87472       87472
Admi n/Pl nalng/Control
Var wIth Activity             0          0           0           0          0
Fixed                     12947       13594      14274       14274       14274      14274       14274
Security/m/l41S
Var WithActivity              0          a           0           0          0
Fixed                     21114      21114       21114       21114      21114       21114       21114
Civil En
Var with Activity             0          0           0           0          0
Fixed                     S847        84807      34087       84867      34867       84867       34887
Us-h/Eloc/Sig Eng
Var with Activity         80520       80520      30620       371as      36o         48326       48s20
Fixed                     47091      43202       48444       48444      41144       48444       48444
Supp i.e
V  with Activitiy             0          a           0           0          0           0           0
Fixed                      Sa6         586a        5n68       5863       5868        6308        5368
Total Labor Cot.            26428      26377       27081       2617n8     264807      268757      20876?
Staff Cost Savins:               0          0           0       14649      20869       87124       37124
Welfare Payments             21400      21400       21400       21400      21400       21400       21400
Tote I Cah Op. Coot.        48204s     480016      486290      890203     87o003      871210      871S70
TA/Training                      0        659       18248       14904      16652       22798           0
Depn.s Historic AsseJt       16000       156s0      14748       1416S       la80       18040       12524
: Projoct Asset            0        8725        002        16277      28036      s882c        42162
Total                 1000       100i6       2434s       80488      87425       51671       54706
Total Operating Coot        44s048     465660      472n8       4ss845     4s2065      446790      426276
Long-Run Var. Costs
:(Pin. Bcxl cap costs)s    2049        20043       204011      175300     17785       177813      17751
Long-Run Ver. Co.            0.0/8      0.086       0.086       0.082      O.088       0.088       0.088
NSrM
Sourc: Mission proJectlonm b"ro on NRZ date;



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONDi RAILWAYS PROJECT
WITH PROJECT A CONSTID TRAFFIC: NCM  STATEMENT
(Zs OCO)
1991       19S2        1998        1994        1099        1966        1997        1to         10"         2000
Freight Revenues             449701      89U1       598605       "g2        718262      790096      790068      790088      790098      7900
Coechlng/Nle. Revenue         5015       57598        888        69694       764         8480        8480        8480        64880       8480
Coaches Amntieati.o              0         647        2160        8499         894        7752        S527        1627        S627         W27
Tote I Ra Il Revenue        499656      5960        659148      726848      S00819      082170      862946      892045      6824        9624
Operating Income: Rail        8608       40428       42177      1007        187457      149975      109960      170481      17418       179628
RN Contribution:              4509        496         5454         000        60          7260        7200        7260        7260        7200
:(col dpa/usnot coob.)
Total Operating Incom         18116      45892       47061      115707      144060      157185      1M40        17741       16189S      160889
Intrestt LT Deb              8612        8840        888s4       45419       54642       66490       60719       7928        77209       7467
Intrest: ST Deb               4820           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
Total Interest Paid          4292        85840       s984        45419       5642        65490       60719       79286       77M         74675
Intsrest Received             4622         512           0        4S18       1198        19S*        29696       89666       50044       6079s     a
Ne Iteret                     88810      84629       89894       40606       42979       45498       51021       89647       27166       180
Not Income                  -25104      10664        9247       75101      101077      11198       120219      189194      154281      178009
Divided Paid                     0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
Retained ProfIt              -26194       1065        9247       76101      101077      1116"       12219       188104      154281      178009
0% 
4:r
o 1
" 41
as



ZIkSABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAYS PRFJECT
WITH FPRlECT A CONSIRAINB TRAFFIC: CASSFLOW PROJECTIONS
(13 000)
1991       1992        1998        1994        1995        1996        1997        1996        1999       9200
Rai I Revenues               49966C     696066      6S9148      72648       800819      682170      6Et648    6s2945        862m46      662s 46
Variable Costs
Material                   185542      150725      100480     144608      156756      167460      167926      187925       116015     167615
Labour                     92705      10197       112178     11168      126988      1460O       1460O       146670      146670      14MO6
226247     252700      272604      26M66       25696       814180      81469S      814595      814695      81469S
Contribatien 1rgin:tRal I    271606     846866      866640      469691      514628      566040       66850      M685M0      566850      566850
Coentributlo bargint R8       4W0         4959        5454        0000        6O0         7260        7260        7260          6          20D
Coetrib. Margin: Total       276116     86046       891994      476891      511222      575800      7S5610        576610     7S1610     57S610
Flx d Costa                 2470        277299      806767      814648      828066      $48501      848064      848664      848694      8486o4
Excsptloaal Coat                 0        6679       18246       14904       16s6        22M             0           0           0           0
Cron Cowe s                   29116      64467       71979      146140      161482      209005      281946      281940      281940      281946
Nat Inv ton  orbkt  Cap.     66947        191Q9      6e67       -4069        12622        2612       -172            0           0           0
Fro Caleoe                   -87981      46176       66812      206729      166o60      206198      2880        281946      281940      281946
Capitol Exps_ditutr              0       56075       9t68m      102286      114682      157666           0           0           0           0
Gross Operattag Cashflo     -878l      -12797      -25651      104494       54826       46606      288706      28194       28194       281946
Intersat RE00 Vlsd            4622         512           0        4818      11e6       1SS2        266o8       89S68       50044       60766
Not Operattia  C.sb hoe     -8s206      -12285      -25561      109807       66990       68497      268406      27164       261990      291742
Financing
Equity Injectlons           266000        2507        8956        4489        4991        O9m0           0           0           0           0
Nmm Debt                       0       62899       97886      109819      122887      168180           0           0           0           0
Dividnd Paid                      0          0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
Interest Paid                42982       8S640       88864       45419       54642       65490       80719       79286       7209        74875
Debt Roti romsnt              40623      41111       40797       21948       19825       19195       19194       22900       287SB       856a8        1
Nat ExterneI Fln.            171245     -11646       22121       46896       58861       90845      -99914    -102186      -105946    -110038
Cash Accretion               1860S7     -28830       -3440      155703      119851      168648      168493      169496      176046      192708
Not Financing                38206       12286       26601    -109307      -45990       -6697    -268406    -271684    -261990    -292742



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAULAYS PROJECt
WITh PROJECT A CONSTRAINED iRAFFICt BALANCE SHEET PIOJECTIONS
(Zs billion)
9es       1ae0        19S1       is"        iou         1994       1,99       1m         10S7       1900        1009     200
Wt Fined Aeset.-
Group Aset.                102.64     1.4        102.64     16.9        1n7.1      170.90     108.50     192.49      12.49      102.40     102.49   192.49
Uait Amontas Historic      212.11     200.86     108.88     170.00      168.25     140.10    I18.61      122.46      109.94      97.92      68.87    75.29
s Prejtt          0.00      0.00       0.00       51.06     127.11     207.28     291.C1      401.88     850.20     817.02     276.01    244.04
Totol Fixed Anet           874.76     872.00     856.00,    s4.s0       461.61     588.82     010.52     716.84     661.64      007.48     566.80   6U.e2
Not Working Capital
I tories                    6s.7       Os.77     112.91     180.64      141.22     90.99      112.00     119.06      118.06     118.06     116.08   1us.
bbor                      67.66      62.56      60.04      107."      118.72      97.04     107.74     118.61      118.51     196.61     116.61    118.61
Credltor                  107.20     149.00     142.57      150.00     178.61     171.89     192.64     197.20      197.48     107.48     197.46   197.48
89.12     -4.67       00.26      79.47      Os.1s       25.54     s8.0o       40.68      89.11      80.11       89.11     09.11
Cerret Portico LID          81.04      48.00      41.11      40.79      21.94       10.88      19.19      10.19      22.90       2B.74      8c.s8    42.14    t
Bas  Overdt                 99..15    182.00       0.00      15.20       16.7s       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00     0.00
Bee kbleece/Cef              8.94       2.C0       s.S4       0.00       0.00       SO.7      256.82     415.16     576.66      748.15     924.20   1106.90
Provlslea                  16.28%     17.00      17.00      17.00       17.00      17.00      17.00      17.00       17.00      17.00      17.00    17.00
De trm Cm                   21.64      20.44      20.44      20.44       20.44      20.44      20.44      20.44      20.44       20.44      20.44    20.44
Ut..,ry S_*t                 6.06       4.22       4.22       4.22       4.22        4.22       4.22       4.22       4.22        4.22       4.22     4.22
Total Net Ast               a01.21    200.49   S91.8S       420.04      514.68     604.16     608.88    1100.86    1264.17    188.62    1402.49  1628.88
_co-                                                      -          - _o  _m _m    - _
(eetntured er o xt peg.)
0tc 
-D J..



STAFF APPRAISAL RiPORT
SECOID RAIMAYS PRCJECT
WM PROJECT A C RUI       ThAPPICs SALANM Se,  PROJlICTIS (ootd)
(Zs .1W II.)
1060      lt90       1901       19S       1998       10i4      1ow        1906      1907       196        19       2000
_ _  _ _ _ _ D ~~~~~~n=                                                      =am
Capital  _ous (B/F)       20.96       0.40       0.40       0.49      0.49       0.43       0.40      0.49       0.49       0.49       0.40     0.49
264a1aed Ppt.l46           0.00       0.00     -25.19     -14.4      -6.S9      o.71      170.76     262.42    406.84     50.68      701.06   074.0
Lqwlty Ijeetlme            0.00       0.00       0.00      2.51       6.46      10.10      15.9      22.79      22.79      22.79      22.70    22.7
CpItel lowd LT DObM        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00
Oakb Ovad r.t asaeeto    0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00
==-                    -         --                    m          m                                          -      mgnu
tetel E4"ity Capital      26.65       0.4"     -24.70     -11.04      1.56      61.10     167.17     605.70    481.92     670.12     724.85   s.
LotPre Proj (40v)         27.94     806.46    2"1.68 2, .82         260.66    m27.59      2681.016   2.46      244.68     284.21     224.65   n14.95
.oSAw                192.57     210.00    175.07     142.46     111.46      08.47     67.65      76.06     66.61      66.94      49.t7   J9. '0 -
466.41    519.40     478.90     482.79     80.00     870.06      5.76    S81.64      812.64     208.16     278.f6    54.7
L_ta Prej (GOt)            0.00       0.00       0.00     20.01      68.94      08.58     187.01     200.22    200.22     166.84     106.25    Ms.4o
:oMw                   0.00      0.0e       0.00      41.70     106.30    170.58     254.Js    189.81      859.81    856.97     31.08    41.06
_   _  -   _  -    ---    - 
0.00      0.00       0.00      62.40     MS.74     260.06      91.80     5501.52    t66.62 M  565.61     60.27   "*.to
C.ewmt Pertles            81.64      4is.00     41.11     40.70      21.94      19.88      19.19      19.19     22.90      26.74      85.80    42.14
tal Nab L_r              484.57     478.46     482.7s     454.40    S90.79     610.76     72.9       97.66     646.9t    820.28      764-.6    742.72
Govt SIbldy beboi         166.51    1 2u.00     25.00      26.00     26.00      26.00      26.00      26.00     260        26.00      26.00    26.00
LT Oebt: AdjustDeas        0.00       9.64      11.26      1.2       11.26      11.26      11.28      1.2       11.26      11.26      11.28    11.26
m                      - _-- _                                                  -              - _
Total Liabilitlie         8.21      200.49     101.86     426.04    614.0S     664.10     M.s$    1100.68   124.17    1378.62    1492.49  128.86
Ddb4/Capital b1d.(51 M8.i7                     106.48     100.00     n7.69      66.60      7.n        72.09     04.94       7.07      60.71    44.0
Natars om Cop Empd (N)                           6.94      11.00     10.7       21.09      21.00      17.60     15.27      14.00      18.21    12.52
Rebon on CIultg (                               .0.29      2.70       2.10      14.06      14.77      12.60     10.67      10.98      11.28    11.s.
01D
0I
1>
p.    .
t>



-140-
ZIBAD                                                    Annex 4-5
STAFF APPRAISL RPORT                                            Page 1 of 6
SECOM RAILNAYS PROJECT
WITHOUT PROJECTs STRUCTURE OF OPERATING COSTS
(1900 Z 000)
1991       9m          1998        194       190o
Materials
FuNl Ol  (ZOOCO)             87088      aw642       86080       J02S8       063C$
Lube Oll/Runnlng Spar..       4882       4806        4842        4812       4812
Moist. Sparg                  0477       6602        8261        6260       6860
Loco MI roe                 14185       1l102      16118       16097       1O697
Electricity (Traction)        a88t       S817        8817        297C       2075
Eloc Lo" Mbint Spar.s          91         s06         061         2S7        257
Steam Loeo Fuel/later         S051       0114        0202        0456       6e88
Steam Loco Malnt Spar.4 2000             2000        2000        2          2000
Wagon Melnt mate             10406      10496       10406       10406       104906
Wagon HI re                 84109       84109      84109       84109       84109
Pox Coaches Maint.            186s       1609        1874        1870        1868
Track Meint. Mate             4600       9439        9489        9489        9439
Elee. Inti. MoInt              244        244         244         242         242
Tel/Signale Moint Met          670        710         740         708         822
Bldg & Plant Maintenance      2917       2090         8064        141        8220
Station Utl I iti.e           1402       1402        1402        1402        1402
Admin Srvewe  (Mate)         6700        6674       0061        9288        9417
142220     147286      140422      1458       145618
(continued next pae)



- -141-
ZIMABWE
STAFF APPRSAL REPORT                                            Annex 4-5
SECOND RAILWAYS MJECT                                           Page 2 of 6
WITHOUT PROJECT: IRUCT8E OF WPERATING COSTS
(1990 Zs 000)
1091       1099              1998  100        s1on
Labour Costss
Traffitc
Vnr with Acttivty         68J76       58758       587o        68750       5a87s
Ftxed                     87472       87472       87472       87472       Su472
Admi n/P lIon l ng/Control
Vnr wIth Actvlty              0           0           0           0           0
Fixed                     1284t       1504        14274       14274       14274
Security/HMRS
Var with Actlivty             0           0           0           0           0
Fixed                     21114       21114       21114       21114       21114
Civil Eno
V,r lth Acttvity              0           0           0           0           0
Fixed                     84867       84867       84867       84867       84867
Msch/EIc/Sig Eng
Ver with Activity         80520       80520       80520       80520       8a05
Fixed                     47981       48202       48444       48444       48444
Suppieto
Var with Activity             0           0           0           0           0
Flxd                      568         5868        588         58s8        gm68
Tot.l  Labor Cost           26428       260877      270801      270891      270801
Staf Cost Savings:               0           0           0           0          0
Weltar. PeyrsAtO             21400       21400       21400       21400       21400
Total Cah Op. Ceost         432048      488016      488218      487125     478710
TA/Training                      0           0           0           0          0
Dopn.: Historic Asset        1000        160         14748       14160       18690
s ProjoctAsseta             0           0           0          0           0
s Total                 16000       158         14746       14156      18500
Total Operating Costa       4484        45876       452959      451280      451190
Long-Run Var. Cost. (13 000)
(Fin. oxal cap cost.):      207498      20648       207785     206848      20527
LRVFC/N1XM (12)              0.088       0.0o9       0.088       0.088       0.088



ZIMeABUE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
WITHOUT PROJECT: PROJECTED NCOMKE STATEMENTS
(Z8 000)
1991        1992        199         1994        1991        1999        1997        1998         199         2000
Freight Rovenues             449701      689s41      69860       652986      719282      790099       790088      790068      790066      79008S
Cac4shing/1.1c. Revenu        50166       57599       8a86        68994       76664       84880        8488        8380        84a80       84a80
Totel R ll Revenu            4996        59t289      656968      722659       794925      874418      874418      974416      874418      874418
Operating Inome: Rll           Om608      16i80       56965       68510       76661       86120       68642        67148       67823       68065
RN  Contribution:              4608        4969        5454        6000        60o          7260        7200        7260        7260        7260
sCexel depn/mengt coot")
Total Opoerting Income        1811         8889        4410       74609       "8le1        96880       98901       94402       94688a      9584
Intreett LT De                8612        8W40        82801       29044       26409        27829       26166       25008       28889       22802
Interests ST Debt             4U20         16s6        1975           0           0            0           0           0           0           0
Total Interest Paid           42982       8n96        8427        29844        26409       27829       26166       26008       23689       22602
Intert Reeived                 4622         512           0         960        2187         5607         967       18248       17962       28041
Net Intert                    86310       864         U4276       289          26242       22242       1729        11760        6           -289
Net Io                      -25194       20156       80164       4666         56919       71187       76o6        82642       69005       05664
~Dt 
x
o t
0*'n



ZIMBABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOU  RALAYS PROJECT
WITHUT PROJECT: CASHFLOW PROJECTIONS
(Zs 000)
1991       1992        1998        1994        1995       1996        1997        1996        1999        2000
_~~ =                                                                                      = _
OPERATIONS
Rol I Revenues              499865      597289      656968      722B69     794925      674419      674416      674419     674416      874416
Variable costs
material                  185542      160725      16422      176n4       196864      21572       2165n       21572      21872       2167
Labour                    92706      101978      112178      128891     185780      149808      149808      149808     149808      149808
229247     252700      276496      802116      882618     865676    836576        865376      Se6587     a86s7s
Contribution Margin:Ra I    2716m0      84456O      80466       420545     462812      50648       60654       50s65      50s648      5os64
Contribution Margin: NS       4508        4969        5454       8000         600o       7260        7260        7260        7260       7260
Contrib. Vergin: Total      276116      849497      865922     426544      466912      515s80      51560s      51560ta    515808      5s150
F xed C.t.                  247000      277299      86767       887679     872182      409876      409876      409878     409876      409876
Exuetlonal Coet                  0           0           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           0
r.o   Cahtlow                29116       72199       79165      89665       96750      106426      106426      106426      106420      1064U2
betInv tn Workng Cap.        66947       16407        5086       ?622        9608       10119           0           0          0           0
Fre  Ca  htlow              -8S78        5s8s2       74070       61048     S6647        96806      106426      106426      106426     106426
Capitolfxpendture                0           0          0           0           0           0           0           0          0           0
Gross Operatlrg Chtlow    -87381         587s2       74070       61048      O6947       Km30a      106426      106426      106426     106426
Interest Reo lvd              4622         512           0        960        2167           7        667        18248      17962       28041
Nbt Operatins Co* hlew      -88206       54804       74070       6028       69115      101898      115298    s196        124897      129467
Finanencig
Equlty lnjoetiona           255000           0           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           0
Ng   De                        0           0           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           0
Interest Paid                42982       ans96       34276      29644       26409       27829       29166       26500      288s9       22602
Debt Rob) rIsen              40628       41111       40767       21943      19825       19198       19194       19194       19194       19194
Net External Ftn.           171246      -78t07      -75602      -51798     -4774       -46524      -45861      -44197      -48084     -41996   ,
Cash Accrelon               138087      -24008        -992       80285      41860       5499        6992        75471      9868        67470   4I
Ne Flnacing                  8s20       -64804      -74070      420        -S9115    -101898    -116298    -119666    -124867    -122947



STAFF  PAISL RWlRT
SECM RlALYS PROJECT
WITHOUT PROECT: BALANCE SHEET PROJCTIONS
(Zs *i II I on)
1909       1990        1991       1992        19          1994       1993 1996              1997         19         1999    2000
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                         Cmr     _     _==   __
AUSSTS
llt PFixed A=ot
Group Anst.                 162.84      102.64     162.64      182.64     162.64      162.64      162.64     102.64      162.64     162.84      162.04   162.04
Unit Asgsts: Hirtoric       212.11     20t.J8      19.I86      178.00     168.2S      149.10      185.61     122.46      109.94      97.92       66.87    75.29
Project          0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Fixed Ascot.          874.75     872.00      a56.00      840.64     825.89      811.74     296.16      288.10      272.56     280.58      240.01   287.93
Nt Working Capital
7aventorle                   66.67      88.77      112.91      129.78     140.08      152.80     16.97       185.87      185.87     165.87      165.87   1865.7
Dbtora                     57.01      62.50       89.94      107.91     116.72      180.59      148.66     168.02      168.02     168.02      158.02   160.02
Creditoro                  107.20     168.00      142.57      169.00     174.98      192.00     211.43      282.68      232.S5     232.56      232.58   232.58
89.12      4a.07       60.28      78.68       83.77       91.89     101.19      111.81      111.31     111.31        111.1      al
Curroat Portion LTD          81.64      48.00       41.11      40.79       21.94       19.88       19.19      19.19       19.19      19.19       19.19    19.19
Bank Overdraft               99.18     182.00        0.00       15.47      16.48        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00     o.oo
Sanlk Dolnca/Caoh             8.94       2.50        8.64       0.00        0.00       18.78      56.18      110.03      179.96     265.48      386.76   424.26
Prvlloiew                  1U.28       17.00       17.00       17.00      17.00       17.00       17.00      17.00       17.00      17.00       17.00    17.00
Duo fro CFO                  21.84      20.44       20.44       20.44      20.44       20.44      20.44       20.44       20.44      20.44       20.44    20.44
Unitary System                8.98       4.22        4.22       4.22        4.22        4.22       4.22        4.22        4.22       4.22        4.22     4.22
TotaI Not AL.te             801.21     200.49      891.86      870.7      n87.92      401.24     442.97      494.91      552.82     615.76      685.68   761.96
(continued on  eOt p_)
0>



STAFF WPUAIL RUST
Sic.. RAIL26YS RROJECT
SENW  "HUMST SALU  SUEIT pSWUUSn
(Zs *I lI tooe)
aon       1990      19Ci1 i9 i2           ion       1094       19it      19h6       19n      is9        1979     2000
Capital Accown  (1Si1)    26.95      0.49       0.49      0.4"       0.40      0.40       0.40      0.40       0.40      0.40       0.40     0.40
Rtrlnd Preflto             0.00      0.00    -26.19      -5.04      2S.10     70.74     117.00     106.60    76.40      858.04    447.05    642."
Equity nlajotlm            0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
Capital lod LT Debt        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
Sais Ovrdroft Rspy mot     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
= _-r   ---   m
Total EqIty Capital       28.90      0.4"    -24.70      -4.55      25.59     71.28     128.15     190.20    275.89     M8.53     447.S4    E48.12
LosnmsPre Prej (0vt)     278.84     80o.4     206.g8     200.82    200.8      271.s     268.08     25M.48    248.03     284.21    224.58   214.96
:Otber               102.57    210.00    175.07     142.40    111.45      01.47     07.65      78.08     08.61      58.94     49.87      809.0
400.41    516.48    47a.90    482.70      892.00    870.08     860.78    88a1.54    12.t4    208.15      278.95   254.78
Looms ProJ(4*vt)           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
sobbor                0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
= = =  =           mm           =         =        ==                  mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==  c=~
0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
Currot Portion            81.84     48.00      41.11     40.7       21.94     10.08      19.19     19.19      19.19      10.19     19.19    19.19
-          -            -        -        --                     -       -          m          mm        m
Tetal Nlt Lo             484.B7     48.48     482.70     80.00     870.08    850.78     881.54     812.4     2.15       278.95    254.76   25.6e
Govt Sueidy eocklo       100.01     208.00     20.00     20.00      25.00     20.10      20.00     20.00       20.00    10.00      20.00    28.00
LT  ebt:t Adjuatmeata      0.00      9.54      11.2      11.20      11.28     11.20      11.20     11.2       11.2      11.20      11.28    11.20
Total ltobiltloa        801.21    200.49     801.80    870.n      870.92    405.24     442.97    494.01    562.82      615.70    605.501    6.80
Deft/Capital Empd. M       5.27               108.48     98.26     900.0      70.04       0.52     57.45      48.01      89.94     88.00    27.24
Rtere as Cap Eapd  )                            8.94      14.01     10.08      16.85     20.52     21.08      10.90      17.09     15.41    18.91
Rertrn a Equity M                              -."2       5.16       7.80      11.54     14.05     10.08      15.40      14.96     14.45    10.04
ao



Zm
STAFF APPtASAL REPORT
RAWAYS 11 PROJECT
FINNIAL RATE OF RETtRt PROJECTED TRAFFIC
PLUS PROJECT IWPROVEENTS
(Zs *I II Ionl)
Fleat Project                          FPe CoMi, Itbt
Yeer In.o*t..t.               Wnth Project    Without Project  Project Smtite  Defletor Project Dow_Its
1991    0.00                   (87.60)         (87.60)           0.00             1.10    0.00
Io2   58.06                    45.80           58.60          (66.-5)            1.21  (56.02)
138   90.67                     65.8O           74.10          (60.67)            1.U8  (74.96)
1964  102.24                   200.60           61.00            ".5              1.46   52.97
105  114.68                   m.10             96.90            70.67            1.61   48.62
160   167.69                   821.60           66.0            67T.51            1.77   88.11
19967                          38.90           106.40           27.60             1.7   15.64
1866                           866.20          106.40           279.80            1.7   157.94
19S9                           866.20          106.40           279.60            1.    157.94
2000                           8S0.20          106.40           279.80            1."   157.94
2001                          a86.20           106.40           279.90            1."   157.94
2002                           866.20          106.40          M2.0               1.77  157.94
2008                           886.20          106.40           279.80            1.77  157.94
2004                           856.20          106.40           279.90            1.7   167.94
2005                           386.20          106.40           279.60            1."   157.94
2006                           866.20          106.40           279.60            1.7   157.94
2007                           866.20          106.40           279.80            1.77  157.94
20o8                           866.20          106.40           279.60            I.77  157.94
2009                           86S.20          106.40           279.60            1.7   157.94
2010                           866.20          106.40           279.60            1.77  117.94
WV 61OS       6 89 *111oio
001
.4
o .
FX0e
w



STAFF APPRAISAL EM
RAILAYS it POJT
FWACIAL RATE OF REMN:
CONSTIAXIED TRAFFIC
Flscl Project                          F.. Cbtl.w b/                 Nab                       Not
Veer  Im/estmnt. a/            With Projoet     Without Projet  Project al-utIts  .sltor Project _soIts
i19     0.00                    (87.60)          (57.80)           0.00             1.10    0.00
19    36.06                     45.80            58.60           (6.6               1.21  (5502
416   90.67                      6.80            74.10           (9.6)              1.88  (74.6)
1994  102.24                   206.70            61.00            23.46             1.46   16.02
1905  114.68                    168.00            86.90           8.S8)             1.61  (20.20)
19o   1W.99                    206.30            96.80            4.7)              1.77  (26.96)
1997                           288.70           106.40           127.80             1.77   71.99
1996                           281.S0           106.40           12S60              1.77   70.64
1999                           281.90            106.40          125.50             1.77   70.64
2000                            281.90           106.40          126.50             1.77   70.64                                         I
20D1                            281.60           106.40          126.50             1."    70.64
2002                            281.M0           108.40          125.50             1.77   70.64
2008                            221.60           106.40          126.50             1.77   70.84
2004                            281.60           106.40          125.50             1.77   70.84
2005                            281.90           106.40          125.S0             1.77   70.64
2006                           281.60           106.40           126.50             1.77   70.64
2007                           281.60            106.40          126.50             1.77   70.94
3006                            281.90           106.40          125.60             1.77   70.64
2009                            281.60           106.40          125.60             1.77   70.64
2010                            281.60           100.40          125.60             1.77   70.64
DRRm          28 X
NPV 0  x     177 miliIon
a/ Tochnical As l.'*new, traini. and stWdi eo,pe...  ioluded In rtecrrent cost.;
zero  rsidual vels 1 sued
b/ free cebtl.w io #reo cM btle adjusted tfar lnvestns to oparating working capitol;
x3O recovery et erk1   capital lvnr.st.e  assumed_
0I
wf



ZISABlE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RILWAYS It PROJECT
FDIANCAL RATE OW RETUtE: LAs UOO WROD    1/
Projet I,w.gtmest
Flual          Tech. Asat/                      Free C..htlow                Not                     Not
Year Physical  Studies  Total         With Project    WiOthot Project  Project 8enetit  Wflner Project Sam Its
1961    0.00    0.00    0.00           (87.60)         (87.60)           0.00            1.10    0.00
1992  56.09    s.6s   eo.6o            51.so            58.60 o6.00)                     1.21   (S.09)
19S8   00.67   18.26  104.12           74.10            74.10         (104.12)           1.88   (.28)
1994  102.4   14.90  117.14            81.00            91.00          117.14)           1.48  (0.01)
1es  114.8   16.06  181.26             66.90            86.90         (8.26)             1.61  (61.5t)
1986  167.09   22.79  180.48           98.80             6.80         (160.48)           1.7  (101.68)
1907                                  260.60           106.40          154.40            1.7    67.11
oses                                   2n.10           106.40          105.70            1.7   98.658
199                                  821.60           106.40          215.10            1.77  121.42                               F-
2000                                   M68.90          106.40          27.50             1.77  160.64                               00
2001                                   866.20          106.40          279.90            1.77  157.94                                0
2002                                   866.20          106.40          279.60            1.7   157.94
2008                                   886.20          106.40          279.80            1.77  157.94
2004                                  a86.20           106.40          276.60            1.7   257.94
2005                                  a8.20            106.40          279.60            1.77  167.94
2006                                   866.20          106.40          279.60            1.77  167.94
2007                                  866.20           106.40          279.90            1.77  157.94
2006                                   886.20          106.40          279.60            1.77  157.94
2009                                   886.20          106.40          279.60            1." 717.94
2010                                  886.20           106.40          279.60            1."   157.94
IRR a    211
hY O 10Sa    807a tlllo
:l/  eIts e.awAd t start mottril ellsp at sad of proJeat Impl.nasttae



-149- -
ANNEX 5-1
ZRMABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
NRZ: Historic Traffic Performance
1.        Revenue freight traffic carried by NRZ during its last six
fiscal years is susmarised in the table below.
NRZs Recent Traffic Performance *
(000 Tons)
1984      1985      1986       1987      1988      1989
General Goods        1820      1862      1821       1798      1963      2072
Agriculture         4103       3846      3845       4044      4030      3801
Fuel/Chendcals      3806       3858      4150      3685       3538      3405
Metals               1330      1312      1266       1245      1204       1212
Minerals            2291       1947      2475       2702      2486      2715
Livestock              78       262        62         22         2         5
Total              13428      13087     13619     13496      13223     13210
NTIl (million)      6412        6202     6573       5932      5569      5287
Average Haul (km)    479         474      483        440       421       400
# excludes small parcels and packages (about 200,000 tons in 1989)
Source: NIIZ
2.        NRZ'. revenue traffic has been characterised by two featuress
(a) stagnancy; and (b) pronounced decline in average hauls. Excluding
Botswana traffic which was credited to NRZ traffic before the separation of
the Botswana system from NRZ in January, 1987, there has boen a small
underlying growth of traffic of about 12 per annum with significant
variation in the underlying growth rates in various commodities carried.
In particular, coal movementat chrome, fertiliser and augar cane shipments
increased In aggregate by about 0.7 million tons during the period (3.52
p.a. on average) whilst local maize movEmnts have been on a downward
trend, falling from 1.0 million tons in 1984 to 0.6 million tons in 1989.
Transit traffic-h s been broadly stagnant over the period.   The pronounced
declie in average hauls from 1987 is due wholly to the separation of the
Botswana Rilways *ystem from NRZ, movments on which were predominantly of
long-haul international trade traffic from Zimbabaeo and neighboring
countries transiting Botawona to or from RSA.



-150-                        ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 9
ZIBAE
RAILWAYS II PROJECT
Forecast of Demand for Rail Freight Transport
A.  Methodology
1.        To assess the future demand for freight transport by rail, a
commodity-by-commodity approach was adopted, similar to the one used by the
Government Railway Traffic Estimates Committee (comprising NRZ and relevant
ministries). Twelve major commodities were analyzed and relevant adjustments
were made to the Committee's 1989 Traffic Estimates published in August 1989.
The adjustments reflected: more up-to-date market information; better defined
capacity expansion plans from major users; and the elimination of certain
inconsistencies and/or overestimates which tend to be incorporated into some
of the written user responses which form the basis of the Traffic Estimates.
The commodities analyzed were Maize, Wheat, Sugar, Tobacco, Coal, POL prod-
ucts, Iron, Steel, Chrome, Ferro Alloys, Fertilizer and Cement (including
Cement Clinker). Together they represented about 682 of the revenue earning
non-transit traffic recorded in 1988-89. The forecasts for all other commod-
ities included in the 1989 Traffic Estimates were adjusted to eliminate
traffic originating from points with less than 1000 tons p.a. of any specific
commodity for which no destinations are given. Transit traffic (which was
considered separately from commodity-by-commodity traffic) was maintained at
constant levels given the uncertainties surrounding the Lobito corridor and
transit traffic from Zaire and Zambia.  This Annex summarizes the overall
traffic forecasts requirements and then describes the assumptions underlying
thn forecasts for each major commodity. Finally, recommendations are given
for further improvements to NRZ's forecasting process.
B.   Summary
2.        Total demand for rail transport is forecast to grow from the 1988-
89 figure of 13.6 million tonnes (12.7 million tonnes adjusted for small-
scale traffic and excluding the railways' own transport requirements) to 14.7
million tonnes in 1990-91, 15.1 in 1992-93, 15.9 in 1993-94 and 16.2 in 1994-
95. If NRZ meets this demand, it will represent a compound annual growth
rate of traffic between 1988-89 and 1994-95 tonnage of 3.8? (4.0? if the base
traffic is adjusted) and net tonne kilometers will grow from 5.4 billion to
6.7 billion.  However, in the project analysis, it is assumed that NRZ's
effective capacity will not increase during the first three years of project
implementation and that the achievement of the 1994/85 projected demand will
only be met from 1996/97 onwards.   Table 1 of this Annex summarizes the
actual traffic carried in 1988-89 and the forecasts for demand between 1990-
91 and 1994-95 and the projected traffic that can be carried by NRZ.



-151- .
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 9
C.   Agriculture
3.        Maize.  During the 1980's,  the Grain Marketing Board (GMB) sold
between 600,000 and 800,000 tonnes of maize domestically each year.   The
annual figure depends on a number of factors, including: weather patterns,
productivity improvements, population growth, growth of informal marketing
and distribution channels and, according to the GMB, NRZ's efficiency in
transporting the maize.   For the purposes of forecasting demand for rail
transport, the last factor is ignored; weather patterns are assumed to
exhibit no secular trend; productivity improvements and the existing
stockpile of almost two years' consumption are assumed to be sufficient to
meet the additional demand for maize caused by population growth; and it is
assumed that informal channels will continue to divert an increasing amount
of maize to road transportation.
4.        1988-89 was an unusually slow year for maize transportation with
local movements of 581,000 tonnes, exports of 55,000 tonnes and imports of
33,000 tonnes. These Oimports' were in fact destined for Malawi by road and
were a temporary phenomenon due to maize shortages there. Local movements
are forecast to recover to 750,000 tonnes in 1989-90, thereafter growing at
32 p.a. International and regional prices for maize have fluctuated consid-
erably, as have Zimbabwe's exports, which have ranged from 700,000 tonnes in
1982-83 to zero in 1984-85. It appears that Zimbabwe can be an efficient
long-term exporter, especially since the region is importing maize with as
much as US$100 per tonne in transport costs. Existing railway forecasts of
250,000 tonnes p.a. in maize exports seem reasonable for the next two years,
though this is likely to rise to 300,000 tonnes in subsequent years.
5.        Wheat. Rationing exists for wheat consumption with a 1989-90 limit
of 310,000 tonnes rising to 320,000 tonnes in 1990-91. During the five-year
period, the GMB forecasts that consumption limits will be raised about 10,000
tonnes each year.  This is probably at the lower end of the likely range
given the growing urban population and high income elasticity of demand for
wheat. On the production side, irrigation problems are likely to constrain
annual growth to 3-4Z, implying that the estimated crop of 260,000 tonnes in
1989-90 will grow to about 300,000 tonnes by 1993-94.   Consequently, the
growth in output will only just match the growth in consumption.  Imports
will therefore remain at 50,000 tonnes p.a., and may even rise if rationing
is eased more quickly than expected.
6.        Sugar.  Forecasts for rail movements of sugar cane, raw sugar and
refined sugar make the following assumptions:
(i)     All existing water in the sugar growing lowveld is fully
utilized, and crop yields are as high as they can be expected
to be without further irrigation.
(ii)     If the Tokwe Mukorsi dam project goes ahead, it is possible
that 17,000 hectares could be brought under cultivation,
increasing total sugar production by about 40Z. It is assumed
that this has no impact on sugar production before 1995.



-152--
ANNEX 5-2
Page 3 of 9
(iii)     Having been consistently in the 430,000 to 480,000 tonne range
between 1985 and 1989, sugar production is forecast to have
a poor 1990 with only 350,000 tonnes and then maintain a
steady 450,000 tonnes between 1991 and 1995. It is assumed
that about 90Z of this sugar continues to be transported by
rail.
(iv)     Domestic demand continues to grow at 5X p.a.
(v)     A second ethanol plant is not built within the five-year
period.
(vi)     Botswana maintains its current decision not to go ahead with
plans to build a sugar refinery, and therefore continues to
import refined sugar.
7.        As a result of these assumptions, sugar cane movements are forecast
to fall to 800,000 tonnes in 1989-90 and then rise again to 950,000 tonnes
from 1990-91 onwards. This compares to the last five years in which move-
ments have oscillated between 700,000 and 950,000 tonnes according to the
crop and the proportion sent by rail (which is only about 25X for cane, the
average haul being only 53 kms). With the exception of a slight dip in 1989-
90, raw sugar's local movements grow with demand at 52 p.a., while movements
of raw sugar exports fall significantly from 177,000 tonnes in 1988-89 to
65,000 tonnes in 1994-95. Refined sugar movements remain fairly constant
with exports increasing their share by a fraction.
8.        Tobacco.  Zimbabwe's exports of tobacco have fluctuated consid-
erably in the past, ranging from 122 of world exports in 1965 to 42 in 1970,
82 in 1981 and currently around 62. Recent growth has not been as high as
was expected given the removal of quota restrictions in 1985: exports by rail
have risen from 101,000 tonnes in 1983-84 to 109,0000 tonnes in 1988-89
(having been 119,000 tonnes in 1987-88). Prospects for further growth are
reasonably good, since Zimbabwe produces high quality tobacco and has duty-
free access to the European Community.  Although current crop yields are
already high, production can be increased through additional planting.
Assuming that Zimbabwe's share of world exports rises by half a percentage
point between now and 1994-95, and baned on projections that world tobacco
exports will grow at 2.52 p.a. until the mid 1990's, tobacco exports by rail
will grow from 111,000 tonnes in 1989-90 to 136,000 tonnes in 1994-94. Local
movements and imports are assumed to remain constant at 6,000 tonnes p.a.
This increase in tobacco production will also have an impact on coal require-
ments, as described in the following section.
D.   Energy
9.        Coal.  Forecasts for coal fall into three categories.  Coal for the
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company (ZISCO) plant at Redcliff which is
transported in diesel-powered liner trains using dedicated wagons owned by
ZISCO; coal for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority's (ZESA) old



-153--
ANNEX 5-2
Page 4 of 9
thermal power stations at Harare, Bulawayo and Munyati; and all other coal.
All coal originates from the Wankie Colliery Company at Thompson Junction,
60,000 tonnes per annum going north to Zaire, the remainder going south.
With the exception of the ZISCO liners, the coal is pulled by steam on the
Victoria Falls-Bulawayo section.
10.       First, ZISCO's coal requirements are forecast to rise from 662,000
tonnes in 1988-89 to 785,000 tonnes p.a. from 1991-92 onwards as they move
to pushing 155 ovens per day. Explanations for ZISCO's increased demand are
given below in the section on Iron and Steel.
11.       Second, ZESA's coal requirements have increased almost three-fold
in the short term because of the fire at Zambia's Kafue power station in
March 1989 and the resulting need to use the old thermal stations more
intensively. In the long term, demand will increase even further (to 988,000
tonnes p.a.), since refurbishment of the old thermals forms part of ZESA's
least-cost development plan.  Although the rated capacity of the thermal
power stations at Bulawayo (120 MW), Munyati (120 MW) and Harare (135 MW) is
375 MW, they have effectively been providing just 200-250 MW of power.
Refurbishment will increase this above 300 MW. Cost per KWH is expensive,
so they will be used as reserve power for peak requirements. Refurbishment
is scheduled to start at Bulawayo in January 1991 followed by Munyati in
April 1991, Harare III in September 1991 and Harare II in May 1992, with full
completion in December 1992. However, a six-month delay is currently being
forecast by ZESA and this has been incorporated into the rail traffic
forecasts.  During refurbishment, coal requirements will dip to as low as
450,000 tonnes p.a., but from 1993-94 onwards full requirements of 988,000
tonnes will be needed.   It is envisaged that the old thermals will be
operated for at least 5-8 years after refurbishment, possibly even longer.
12.       Third, Wankie Colliery's dispatches of other coal have increased
over the last few years, partly because of a marketing campaign aimed at
persuading tobacco farmers to use coal instead of wood for curing. Tobacco
farmers now account for about 330,000 tonnes of coal p.a., representing 90Z
of their fuel needs. This source of growth of coal sales will now be limited
to the expected growth in tobacco production (about 4Z p.a.).  During the
1989-90 to 1994-95 period, remaining coal sales are forecast to remain fairly
constant, although an increase is expected from the 1988-89 figure of 1.31
million tonnes to 1.40 million tonnes in 1990-91, due to artificially
depressed 1988-89 dispatches caused by transport difficulties. In terms of
wagons per day, and excluding ZISCO liners, Wankie Colliery's requirements
are forecast to rise from 190 wagons per day (assuming 37 tonnes per wagon
and 312 loading days p.a.) in 1989-90 to 211 wagons per day in 1994-95. In
1988-89, an average of 137 wagons per day were provided.  These forecasts
correspond to Wankie Colliery's production forecasts.
13.       POL Products.   The demand for rail transport of POL products
depends largely on decisions regarding the building of an oil pipeline from
Feruka to Harare. These plans are currently uncertain. For the purposes of
the project analysis, it is assumed that the pipeline extension is not built.



-154_
ANNEX 5-2
Page 5 of 9
The financial and operational impact of the extension, if it is
built, is detailed in Chapter IV of the text.
14.       NRZ is currently carrying about 502 of NOCZIM's traffic from
Feruka. It is assumed that about 802 will use rail in the future, since road
transport costs are considerably greater and every oil depot in the country
is served by the railways. In addition, demand for POL products is assumed
to grow at 4Z p.a., slightly less than expected growth in GDP. A second
ethanol plant, which is currently being discussed, would increase movements
of ethanol from about 35,000 tonnes p.a. to about 50,000 tonnes p.a.
However, it is assumed that the plant, if built, does not come on stream
before 1995.
E.   Minin8
15.       Iron and Steel.  Forecasts for movement of Iron and Steel make the
following assumptions:
(i)     During 1990-91, ZISCO increases the number of ovens it pushes
per day from about 125 to about 150.  This requires about
785,000 tonnes of coal p.a. from 1991-92 onwards, with an
intermediate figure of 720.000 tonnes in 1990-91.
(ii)     A new sinter plant is built with operations beginning in 1992-
93, though not reaching full production until 1995-96. This
will allow ZISCO to use higher proportions of the finer iron
ore from Ripple Creek in the place of its traditional iron ore
from Buchwa (Mukwakwe), and will also increase blast furnace
capacity from 1600 to 2300 tonnes per day due to better
prepared ore.
(iii)     Iron ore is shipped from Buchwa on a regular basis over the
next five years.   Although  ZISCO could increase  output
immediately by mining more ore at Buchwa, this would deplete
the mine before the sinter plant is ready and Ripple Creek
ore can take over. Consequently, 804,000 tonnes of ore will
be transported each year between 1990-91 and 1994-95 (except-
ing 1993-94 when blast furnace relining is assumed to take
place). This represents an increase of 122 from 1988-89 to
1990-91, less than the forecast increase in steel output (33Z)
because of a declining share of the Buchwa ore compared to the
Ripple Creek ore and an artificially low output figure in
1988-89 (due to process inefficiency, in turn partly caused
by irregular NRZ provision of iron ore). Ripple Creek ore is
currently transported the short distance to Redcliff by road;
in the long run a belt system or dedicated rail track will
serve the mine.
(iv)     Blast furnace relining will reduce output by about 150,000
tonnes in 1993-94.



-155- .
ANNEX 5-2
Page 6 of 9
(v)     A move from ingot casting to continuous casting will allow
ZISCO to increase its yield. Combined with the new sinter
plant, this will increase output from an estimate of 614,000
tonnes in 1990-91 to 700,000 tonnes in 1994-95 (and 800,000
tonnes in 1995-96).  It will also help ZISCO to start pro-
ducing flat products, the demand for which is currently met
almost entirely by imports.  This segment of the market is
forecast to double by the mid to late 1990's and ZISCO aims
to substitute existing imports as well as meeting the
additional dem..nd. This effect will begin to be felt in 1993-
94 with imports falling 20,000 tonnes, and another 30,000
tonnes in 1994-95. As local demand grows and imports are sub-
stituted, exports for ZISCO and for Zimbabwe as a whole will
decline somewhat despite production increases.
16.       As ZISCO pushes more ovens per day, it will produce up to 100,000
tonnes per annum of coke in addition to its requirements for steel
production. It is assumed, conservatively, that this will be stored and then
used for feeding the sinter plant when it comes into operation, rather than
being sold, which would add to transport requirements.   These forecasts
assume that ZISCO's capacity expansion plans go ahead.   If they do not,
relevant traffic movements will be about 250,000 to 300,000 tonnes less in
1994-95 and will fall to almost zero in the late 1990's as Buchwa's iron ore
is exhausted (and Ripple Creek's ore remains unusable on its own without a
sinter plant).
17.       Chrome and Ferro Alloys.   Annual output in the Ferro Alloys
industry depends on: optimal depletion rates of existing chrome mines; market
prices for the specific alloys produced, which can exhibit great volatility;
and the capacity of the smelting plants, essentially how many furnaces are
in operation in a given year. It is assumed that no new reserves of chrome
are discovered and that market prices do not exhibit any persistent changes
over the next five years. The two major producers in Zimbabwe, ZIMASCO at
Kwekwe and Zimbabwe Alloys at Gweru, produce different alloys with distinct
markets.   The 1989 Traffic Estimates  for Gweru traffic have not been
adjusted, those for Kwekwe have been, depending on the planned number of
furnaces in operation each year.
18.       ZIMASCO currently has six furnaces in operation.  It is assumed
that a seventh will be added from 1994 onwards to take advantage of addi-
tional ore deposits at Kildonan. A market dowLturn for ZIMASCO's product is
forecast for 1991-92 and 1992-93, so three furnaces will be relined in turn,
effectively making it a five-furnace plant during these two years.  Each
furnace requires about 7,000 tonnes per month of chrome ore; 1,000 tonnes per
month of low sulfur coke (mainly imported); 750 tonnes per month of coal
(also imported, though this could be largely supplied by the new mine at
Sengwe); 500 tonnes per month of slag (delivered by road); and 150 tonnes per
month of quartz (also delivered by road). Output is about 2,600 tonnes per
furnace per month.  Rail transport demand for Chrome and Ferro Alloys is
derived from these figures and depicted in Table 1.  The effect on Coal
movements is negligible.



-156-                         ANNEX 5-2
Page 7 of 9
F.   Industry and Technology
19.       Fertilizer.   Demand for fertilizer depends heavily on weather
patterns, and also on government policies concerning fertilizer subsidies.
The fastest growing market segment is the communal farming sector whose share
of total consumption has risen from 6.5Z in 1976-77 to about 30? in 1988-89.
Total domestic consumption in this period has risen from about 300,000 tonnes
to almost 500,000 tonnes, indicating a secular trend of 4-5? p.a NRZ carries
almost all of this volume, plus 70,000 tonnes of so-called imports which
arrive in Harare by train before being transshipped to road for onward trans-
portation to Malawi.   As the Mozambique routes open up and Malawi makes
greater use of its northern transport corridor through Dar-es-Salaam, this
figure will fall to about 40,000 tonnes, representing Malawi's imports of
South African fertilizer. Aside from this, domestic demand is forecast to
grow at 3-41 p.a. during the 1990's.
20.       The pattern of traffic, and specifically the split between local
traffic and imports, will depend on capacity expansion plans currently being
considered. There are four fertilizer plants in Zimbabwe: SABLE and ZIMPHOS
produce ammonium nitrate and phosphate fertilizers respectively, which are
sold to two downstream plants, Windmill and ZFC, who make various granular
compounds. SABLE and ZIMPHOS are working at full capacity and all four firms
have exhibited extremely low investment levels.   As d_mand grows,  and
therefore the country's import requirements too, support is developing for
a restructuring of the domestic industry, which may involve the commissioning
of a coal gasification plant. This would produce ammonia, a key input for
SABLE whose current requirements of about 9,500 tonnes per month is sourced
30? from imports and 70X from an electrolytic process which is becoming
increasingly expensive as power costs rise.
21.       However, a number of uncertainties surround the proposal including
its location (e.g. at Hwange to be near the colliery, or at Kwekwe to be near
SABLE), size (the economic size of 500 tonnes per day would require sub-
stantial export markets), funding and timing. If it goes ahead, this project
would have significant impact on rail movements in the heavier direction from
Hwange (either of coal or of ammonia, which requires pressurized tank cars).
However, it is assumed here that any developments will take place beyond the
five-year horizon and that growth in demand will be met largely by increased
imports. Nevertheless, this is an area in which rail transport demand could
become considerably higher than forecast. NRZ's Planning Branch should keep
a close watch on decisions affecting the fertilizer industry.
22.       Cement.  The demand for rail transport of cement is difficult to
forecast since, unlike most commodities considered here, the majority of it
is transported by road. Nevertheless, the three existing cement plants have
set up established patterns of transportation which are assumed to remain
constant. These involve movement of Iimestone and cement clinker from United
Portland's Colleen Bawn plant to its 3ther plant at "Cement" near Bulawayo,
and movements of cement from these two plants and Circle's Mabvuku plant to
major consuming centers such as Mutare, Chiredzi and Masvingo.  The major



-157-
ANNEX 5-2
Page 8 of 9
change in the industry is likely to be caused by ZISCO, whose cement plant
has been taken over by Industrial Development Corporation. The proposal is
to use ZISCO's two million tonne dump of slag to produce "Portland Blast Fur-
nace Cement" (PBFC) quality cement, using clinker brought from Colleen Bawii.
Plans range from a 100,000 tonne p.a. plant to one five times that size.
Whilst evidence exists of substantial unmet demand for cement, the latter
proposal appears over-ambitious and it is assumed that new capacity of
300,000 tonnes p.a. is added.  This would require 120,000 tonnes p.a. of
clinker, of which 50X is forecast to be transported by rail. It is further
assumed that 252 of the end product will be shipped by rail and that full
production will be reached by 1994-95 after two years of operations.
G.   Transit Traffic
23.       It is assumed that there will not be a South African border
closure. Transit traffic is assumed to stay constant.
H.   Recommendations for NRZ's Planning Process
24.       The underlying concept of seeking user responses to form the basis
of traffic estimates is sound. However, there is an in-built tendency for
users to overestimate their requirements so as to ensure that capacity is
available (given that this does not lend to higher tariffs under the existing
system). As a result, forecasts have consistently overestimated the actual
outturn, with the degree of overestimation rising the further in the future
is the year for which the forecast is made. Nevertheless, NRZ's Planning
Branch has become increasingly vigilant in rooting out the more obvious of
these "strategic overestimates". One-year forecasts for 1987-88 and 1988-
89, were respectively only 72 and 52 higher than the actual outturns,
compared to an average overestimation of 182 for the years studied during the
1980's.    For  each  year  in  the  full  five-year  forecasting  range,
overestimation has been reduced substantially dur4.ng the 1980's. The process
could be further improved in a number of ways:
(i)     The involvement of relevant ministries is vital for wagon
allocation.   For traffic forecasting, however, the process
should either be kept entirely to NRZ and major users with
ministries acting only as a source of information for growth
trends, capacity expansion plans, etc.; or else, the minis-
tries should become fully involved in the process, ensuring
consistency between estimates from related industries and
searching out unnecessary overestimation. If the former, the
process could be substantially shortened, making the estimates
more up-to-date; if the latter, then NRZ, ministries and major
users should all be party to the final decisions.
(ii)     Within NRZ's Planning Brar.ch, individuals should be given the
responsibility of tracking a few major industries, to take
note of changes in capacity, transport patterns, seasonality
and other such issues. For instance, four people could each



-158-.
ANNEX 5-2
Page 9 of 9
be responsible for ont of the following sectorst agriculture,
energy, industry and technology, and mining.
(iii)     Consistency between related commodities should be vigorously
checked.  For instance, movements of iron ore should match
steel output unless new sources are being developed which do
not requite rail transport.
(iv)     On the questionnaires sent to the users, they should be asked
to describe briefly any plans to increase capacity, change
product mix or other similar developments which are likely to
affect traffic movements.
(v)     Finally, NRZ should continue to update forecasts on an ad hoc
basis, if significant events occur during the year.



ANNEX 5-2
Table 1
StAFF   R    E     PT
couveoRAv *sw..visi P AFlePR.ICT
(000 I0e )
1989       1m         flfl                  1994       logs        -1s    1997
Coal                         2244       200        98         9910        U144      U44        8144     8144
of which:
Cool to ZESA              2118 88                          44         98         9ga 98              966
coa  to nsco              662        720        766        785        n6         766        786      786
Other Coal               1314       1401       186        1871       1871       137        1871     1871
POL                           G1s        917       1016       1ow        1115il   1115         15       ills
Stool                         5687       779        794        624   n a             761        161      761
of which:
Steel Exports             29         49s        491        4a2        818        488       488       438
Steel  import              80         67         67         67         0?          87        87       37
Steel Local               208        199        216        25         806        806        806      806
Iron Ora                      716        004        004        604        004        604        604      604
met"                          se6       1000       1047       1047       1121        1121      1121     1121
of whtch:
Main Ex orpta             56         250        248        248        26         I0         296      29
Maize Imports              88         80         -          -                -               -
MeaI* Local               561        70          7         m          66         628        62       828
_h"t lqpo*s                    70         00         60         50         60          50        S0       s0
Whost Local                   247        260        270        280        289         296       296      208
Sugar Cane                    900        So         90         950        0S0        960 s60             9s0
Sugar Raw: Export             177        127        107         so         72         S5         eS       SC
Sur Raw: LocaI                202        160        20         221        282        244        24,'     244
sugr RefIned: Local            44         40         40         40         40         40         4^       40
Chrome                        OS6        640        600        560        640        720          0      720
Forre-Al laoy                 240        258        240        229        255        284        264      284
FertlIIzerr                   560        582        579       504         011        026        08       626
Coke                          157        S29        826        826        826        828        82a      820
Cmoent                        811        244        244        29         294         319       819      819
Clinker                        48         27         27         47         07          7T        67       67
Tobacco                       11i        117        122        121 188                1S9       189      180
Transit                      9o          958        956        066        956         956       956      968
Other Goods t---                              8      2 am     4Am 42?               _4088      4088     4088
Tote I: Revenue TraffIc     18414      1472P      1478       15m11      15686       10161     16151    186151
RaIlwayr (OR)                 200        288        m                2     88         2S8       290      29.
TMAL                        18684      1499?      i80s1      85696 1i1?4            16449     16449   16449
Avat lable Projected
Reven  Traffle
(ell on NTKM)              5894       67         611        on8        849s 6           657 0057     8157
Projected NRZ Capacity
( tIIon KlUM)                         5894       584        5894        16        68        6496     6
Projected CapecltY/
Projcteed Traflfc       ea)            soo.       on         so         on          9811      Sax     100
Source: NiRZ and mission est



160- -
Annex 6-3
Page 1 of 6
ZIMBABWE
STAFf APPRAISAL REPORT
RAILWAYS YI PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURNS
Yer projct                Rail Traffic          Cost of Transportfig  Sovings   Net
Capital                 ----*-- Addit'i Trftfic sy:  Due To    Benefits
C_st      With       Without   Addlt'l       Reed       Rail    Preject
Projct   Prolect   Traffic
21000     NHt Tonno Km. (Million)         Z5000      280Z0      Z8000      28000
1901    61,26       56,894     5,804         0          0          0          0    (81,288)
1002   1186'08      6,804       ,8094        0                     0          0   (118,803)
1008   126,056      5,694      5,804         0          0          0          0   (125,066)
1094   181,806      6,160      5,894       766    67,767    26,495    104,681    (26,727)
low    16,625    60880        5,894       045   108,26    86,154   105,466   (683,39)
1w                  6,40"      5,894     1,105   126,009    41,106    124,840   124,840
19907               6,.7       5,94      1,26    144,712    46,984    148,060   143,038
19900               o6.7       5,894     1,268   144,712    4,0694   148,068   148,038
1o9"                6,657      5,804     1,268   144,712    40,904   148,060   148,098
2000                6,657      5,804     1,298   144,712    40,994   148,030   143,038
2001                6,657      5,894     1,26U   144,712    46,084   148,038   143,038
2002                6,657      5,804     1,26    144,712    46,904   148,086    148,038
2008                6,067      5,84      1,268   144,712    46,964   148,088    148,038
2004                6,667      5,384     1,268   144,712    40,964   148,088   143,038
2006                6.657      5,804     1,268    144,712    46,984   148,080   148,038
2006               6s6sc       5,894     1,268    144,71n    46,064   148,088    143,038
200?                6,65       5,804     1,208   144,71?    46,984   148,088   148,038
2006                6,65       5,894     1,268    144,712    46,904   148,060    143,0J8
2006                6,667      5,84      1,268    144,712    46,084    148,088    148,038
2010                6.667      5,84      1,283   144,712    46,984   148,088    148,088
2011         0      6,65       5.604     1,268    144,712    46,904   148,089   148,08
ERR .      20.86
NPV a    M86061
Notes:
1. Without project, unmet deaand assumed to go by road.
2. Road distance for each origin-destination combination assumed to equal ralI distance.
3. Costs (other than capital costs) of rail transport are adjusted financial costs derived from the
pro ect's financial analysis.
4. Savings gained from lower costs of transporting existing traffic by rail assumed to begin in 1993-94,
when operational improvements due to project have been completed.
e
__________________ _ ___________-___-____________________________.___________



- -161-
Annex 6-3
Page 2 of 6
ECONOMIC RETURNS: ASSUMPTIONS AND SENSITIVITY FACTORS
Inflation Retest
(5 Year on Year)        1is"        19806     1t7        1o6       1o0       1900
Zibabwe                  18.a 18 7S             9.65      10.i       10.a      10.01
Interattional               -         -          -          -         -         4.90
Base Case Traffics
(MIke ml U ion)          1061       1062       1998      1004       1900       1990      1907.
With Project            5,84       5,884 5,8W            6,00      08         0,496      0,0"?
X Above 100             0.01       0.05       0.05      14.21      17.53      20.5C     28.43
Without project         5,80       5,84       5,84       5,04       5,804     5,84       5,804
X Above 1906            0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01
OFther (190 Fiures):
'"ehange Rat  UIR        2.80
FX Convoraioa Fact.      1.10
coat of Capital          10.01
Residual Volve            0.01
19i9 NTKa (millie")     $,804
Sesitivity Factess
Proc Csfe 10                           e" Cas Caste)
Pr;jc   ea"es)   o          0          t dlye  0,1,2 *,4 or * years, caso  as is Boas Caes)
Traffic Growh"            1005  ( ro w                        cv oof s se Grewth vs. 1069)
Capacity With Proj.     6,700   (ttilon TNKs, Se Case assums Capacity a 1997 Traf fc)
Roa/RalI  aving           1005  (I of Base Case, cpo lIs  cost difference In ZO/NTke u    7.57)
RoW Coste                 1005   at oB  Case implies cost In Zc/N KmW a    11.46
Rail Costs                1005  (3 of BaC swies      co  stn   Zin       a u   8.08)
WV                     800
EOR20tpu(utut
EllR                    so.m      o
PYR                      28.01   O )
Traffic ik 106         10,156   (Output, Thousand Oteae to an amming avera  haul * 4#8 ken)



-162-
Annex 6-8
ZkABE: RAIWAY PROJECT 11
SEmMv     OF ERR to awe     IN KV VARILE
Cost as       Co*st      Coo                        Pr;ect Dolay (yeers)
Etl"a         Up tip 11  to 201                    one        TWO      Thre
0... Cos                      21         1in         IO                    17W        14X        1a
lrsf la Greg" Co of Ralstse to)
sod                   171       1a         145                   lo         183        115
001                   14X       1i          11x                    121        lCx         i
403                   11t         Is         Is                     is         Os         73
Ceplty WIth PfoJest 061K..)I
6,S000                   so         to          17                    17W        143        1in
0000                     20         1ox        lo                    17S        14S        1i3
6,400                    1la        lo         1i                    1i         1is          1LX
Retlf/Roed Soveeig (S of Let.):
so1                   173        1W         143                    1a        1is         11
Om1                   145        iusism15   1                      1          1a          1a
40_                   11          1$         1a                     ON         1 
Read Transport Cosd. (3 ftb.)t
on                    lox        145        is3                    lox        us3        ICU
RollI TrnwAport Coot (SlEst.) i
011                   l1         1si         in                    1ut         1in        123
1401         161W                 13        lx                    14X        123        101
1001                   121        123        101                    115        1011
Tratfic Groe  & RIt  o
Seelo. (3 of Estmt)1
n                     1N         11s        140                    125        lo          1WX
" UF to                      1     x        uxis                               l
M ~ ~~~~i                   si         ION 1e11                          ox          ex11



-163-
Ann x 6-3
ECONOMIC RETURNS                                               Page 4 of 6
ECONWMIC COSTS OF ROAD TRANSPORT
(1990 Prices)
Heavy Goods Vehicle            Very Heavy Goode Vehicle
Pay load:
Capacity (Tonnes)                       1S                                sO
Load Factor (X)                         50                                55
Average Load (Tonnes)                 7.50                             16.60
Vehicle Operating
Costs (Zc/veh.bk)                  07.51                            140.24
Road Costa (Ze/veh.km)                9.02                             25.51
Total Costs (Ze/veh.km)              96.58                            165.74
Total Costs (Ze/tonne km)            12.87                             10.05
Share of Traffic (X)                    So                                SO
Weighted Average Road
Transport Cost. (Zc/tki)                                  11.46
Memo Item:
Inflation Rate (X, Year on Yver)
1985       19is       1987        199        199        1990
18.1X      18.7X       9.65       1O.OX      10.OX       100X
Notes:
1. The 1985 National Transport Study (NTS) noted that the average load factor
on primary roads was 4CX. This analysis assumes that additional road traffic
would lead to an Inerase to SOX for Heavy Goode Vehicles (HNVs) and SSX for
Very Heavy Goods Vehlelos (VHQVe), due to capacity constraints.
2. NT$ estimated that only 305 of long distance primary road traffic was carried
by Very Heavy Goods Vehicles (VeY) In 1984. Fre  1984 to 1967, vehicle
population figurs for VHOVs grew at an annual growth rat. of 4651 compared
to 4.0X p.s. for Heavy Goods Vehicles (HOVe) and 2.05 p.a. for Medium Goods
Vehicles (MOs). This analysis  ssume that off icient road operatlons at the
margin use only HOVe and VHCVs, split equally between the two.



-164-
Annex 5-3
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC RETURNS
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS (ECONOMIC)
(l988 Prices)
Heavy Goods Vehicle           Very Heavy Goods Vehicle
Fixed (Zt/year" :
Depreciation/Interest               3,709                            7,889
Crew                                7,178                            6,840
Ovorheads                           3,960                            6,924
Sub-Total                         14,037                           20,103
Variable (Zc/veh.km):
Depreciation                         4.68                             7.69
Fuel                                21.85                            84.84
Otl                                  0.48                             1.21
Tyres                               22.83                            41.47
Service and Repairs                 13.87                            18.78
Sub-Total                          63.16                           103.49
Vehicle Utilization (hrs/yr)        2,700                            2,700
optimal Speed (kms/hr)                 60                               60
Fixed VOC (Zctveh.k c)               9.16                            12.41
Variable VOC (Zc/veh.km)            63.16                           108.49
TOTAL COSTS (Zc/ve*l.km)            72.82                           115.90
Notes:
1. Economic cost estimates taken from 1985 National Transport Study (NTS),
updated by Ministry of Transport (1988 prices). Paved, flat roads assumed.
2. Heavy Goods Vehicles (HOVe) have unladen weight 4,600 - 9,000 kgs; Very
Heavy Goods Vehicles (VHGVs) have unladen weight greater than 9,000 kg.
3. Economic price new is 1879,388 for NOV, Z8149,012 for VHGV.
4. Depreciation costs assumed to 4.67  p.a. for HGV; 6.19X p.o. for VHV.
Half of depreciation allocated to fixed costs, half allocated to variable
costs (assuming HQV* cover 40,000 kms/yr and VHOVs cover 60,000 kms/yr).
S.  Interest costs assumed to be 6.0O  of average value of vehicle (which is
assumed to be 809.0  of HOV's price oew and 30.6% of VHV's price ne).
6. Crew cost  assume 2,700 operating hours/yr.
7. Economic cost of diesel assumed to be t80.6244/litre; consumption by NOV Ie
0.35 lltres/km, by VHlV 0.56 litres/km.
8. Economic cost of oil asume  to be Z82.419/litre; consumptlon by NOV io 2.0
litres/1000 kin, by VHGV 5.0 lltres/1000 km.
9.i HOVe have 14 tyres, VHGVs have 26; overage life Is 80,000 kme.
10. Optimal speed ropresente performance at full capacity for the purposes of
allocating fixed costs. Current performance Is much lowr.
___ __ __ __ __ __ __     _     __ __ ___ __ __ __  _  __   _  __         __ 



-165- -                                   Annex 6-S
Paow 0 of 6
ECONOVIC RETURNS
PROJECT ECONOVIC COSTS (Z 000)
(1990 Prices)
1991      1m         19"        1994      16        TOTAL
Local Costs:             -          -         -
Be" Co                 190ff    27911       29,"80     80,649    80,"6    146,901
Physlcal Contlgency     1,60       2,M       2,670      8,014      $,87      14,352
Total                  20.8       80,68     82.21      988"       48,586    101,25
FX Costs
S.. Cos"               57816       8,778    66,162    9,591    11904"    440,910
Physical Contingnc      8,006      4,892     4,2        4,314      8,241     28,115
Total                  60,828    $0,10      92,30      97,445    126,29    4S4,025
TOTAL COSTS             1,295   116,608    12,056    181,805    16,92       625,276
Inflation (1900 on 1669):
Zimb2b1 .                10.05
Intertional               4.915
Exchange Rate:
M3/USe                   2.80
Notes:
1. Local coa  exaclmde  lI txe  and duties.
2. Foreign exchange coste have bee mltiplied by a conversion factor o           1.5
8. 1061 rfers to year Owing June 8O, 1991.



-166-
Annex 5-4
ASK                                       Page 1 of 3
SCm   RADUVS MRoJECT
Rai lwys Posennger Services: Estimated Opertntag Cost
Variable Material Co*sta
Lecomottva Cota (ZI 000)            Diesel Electic    Stea                Total
Fuel 01                              82001        0        0             t2001 (excluding shunting locos)
Lube Oi/Running Speres                 361       0        0               3351 *,xcludtng shunting loceos)
Di.el IlIco sint. spar                 60"77       0        0              0077  excluding shunting locos)
Subtota1                              42919        0        0             42919
X foreign                                100       0        0                100
Adjusted Financial Costs a
Economic Coet                          60002       0        0             50008
Stem  lao  fuel/waor                      0        0     8a67               am8? (excluding shunting locos)
Stem loao faint. *aterials                0        0      1840              1840 (excluding shunting locos)
Subtot.l                                  0        0     532?              sW27
X foreign                                 0        0        0                 0
Adjustsd Financial Costo 
Economle Costs                            0        0     SW27              6827
Electricity (Traction)                    0     3317        0              8817
Electrie loce mint spares                 0      gel        0               9B1
Subtotul                                  0     4276        0              4276
U foreign                                 0       22        0                22
Adjuotcd Financial Coat a
Economlc Cost                             0    4749         0              4749
Subtotal: Economic Costs               50002    4?49    5327              60077
Possenger Train-Engine Hrs/
Total Train-Engine Hr (H )              ?       19       10
Allocated Locomotive Operating Costs    3500     902      588              4035
Coaching Stock Saint. Materiales
Financial Cost                                                              16s6
Econamic Cost                                                              2052
Variable Labor Cste (ZO 000)
Traffic                                                                   58568
Paoesngr Train-km/Total Train-km (U)                                          8
Allocated Trff tc Dept Labor Costs                                         4301
Enginern                                                                   020
Paee. En-/otal Eng-lk  (                                                      0
Allocatd Engineering Labor Costs                                           181
Total Varioble Labor Coste
Ailoated to Passege  Servioce                                            0132
Subttl: Short-run Variable costs                                           13116
Estimae  Tota Psefter-Im (000)                                           1160000
S,ort-run Vartable Coete/Passenger-It (ZO)                                  1.13



ZIMBABWE
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
Rai lways Passengr Services: Estimated Operating Cost
Caplitl Cost/Coach Unit:
Financial Cost (ZS 000)                                                                      1012
Economic Cost (Z  000)                                                                       12"
Aenualsed Capital Cost (Econ) (ZS 000)a/                                                      182
Unit Coach-ks/yer                                                                          290000
Number of Seaft                                                                               110
Coach Occupancy (U)                                                                            90
Pa_sen,gr-lo/Coach/yoar                                                                  26710000
Coach Cost/Paseger-km (Za)                                                                   1.01
Prsent Value of Locomotive Replacemnt. b/                                                   22026
Annual Equivalent Cost. (20 000) c/                                                          24',
Locomotive Capitl Co Pngr-  (Zc)                                                             0.21
Capital Coste/Passenger-ku (Zc)                                                              1.22
Lonrun Variable Cost. (Econ)/Passenger-lk  (Ze)                                              2.86
*/ capital cost a current purchas plan present value of futur  replaceme     Ont to Infinity;
lIt of coach a 40 yers; discount rate a 101;
b/ presen value of rplacment cost of stem  locomotive five years hence plus
preset value of diesl  locom.tives, asigned to paseenger sevies 20 yers hece;
c/ based on presnt value of rea  of replacement to Infinity;
llfe of new locomotives  80 yers; discount rate a 10X;
II



-168- -                  ~~~~~~~Annex S-4
} hZ  I       It   
i;}S.i                      i
Xi   !    owi l



--169-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
aximBam
8UUD PAIXAYS PY43C!
SUPBRVISIOU PLAN
1.         Bank supervision Input:  Bank staff input into the
supervision of the project will take the following forms
(a)  Portfolio management operations: the review of procurement
documents, progress reports and financial statements at
headquarters and correspondence and internal reporting
related to such activities are estimated to require six
staff-weeks in the first two project years and four staff
weeks thereafter.
(b)  Field supervision: the supervision of the project in the
field will comprise five broad aspectst
Mi)     Operating Performances the detailed review of
the maintenance and traffic operationsl
(ii)     Financial Performances the detailed review with
NRZ of financial performance and prospects
taking operating performance and traffic pros-
pects into account;
(iii)     Regulatory Climates review with Government, the
Board of NRZ and NRZ management of progress in
implementing the provisions of the Framework for
MRZ Operationsl
(iv)     Procurement Activities: review of progress in
project-related procurement activities and the
performance of NRS in its inventory management
operations;
(v)     Donor Coordination: Bank supervision would be on
a cooperative basis with the participating
donors and would entail meetings with donors
individually and as a group on every field visit
to discuss the performance of the project.
It is planned to undertake field supervision of the project on a
quarterly cycle for the first three project years and on a semiannual
cycle thereafter. The activity plan for the first two project years is
indicated in the table below.



-170-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
2.          Borrower's and Beneficiary's Contributions to Supervisions
(a)   MRS will provide quarterly reports in the format agreed at
appraisal and confirmed at negotiationes
(b)   MRs will provide annual financial statements in the form and
time schedule agreed at negotiations and semiannual analyses
of its accounts receivable;
(c)   On each supervision visit in the third quarter of MRZSs
fiscal year, Government and MRZ will prepare and discuss
with the Bank mission the operating and financial targets
proposed to be set for MRS for its ensuing fiscal year and
the investment program proposed to be included in the PSIP.
Government is expected to be represented by officials of
)EFPD and NOT;
(d)  Mission briefing meetings on arrival will be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary or a senior official of NOT. Wrap-up
meetings will be chaired by a senior official of NPEPD and
attended by senior officials of NOT and NR8's senior
management.
3.         At the end of each mission, an Aide Memoirs will be prepared
documenting NRS's compliance with the performance objectives agreed
under the project and during the proceeding supervision mission, the
measures to be taken to remeAy any shortfall in performance and the
performance objectives for the ensuing quarter or half-year.



-171-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Sank Field Mugstyision Plan
Approximate Date        Activity                 Expected       Staff Input
(month/year)                            Skill Requirement   (staff-weeks)
12/90              Review Reporting              Railways             7
Requirements/Formats.        Engineering/Opera-
Review use of operational   tions Speclalist
and financial model.         Financial Analyst
Review progress on           Lawyer
conditions of                Procurement
effectivene"s. Review of    specialit
Procurement Actlvitie.
4/91               Review of operations &        Railways tngineer-   7
financial performance.       lng/Operations
Review of performance        SpecialLst
objectives for FY92.         Financial Analyst
Revlew of investment         Procurement/sup-
program.                     plies specialist
Procurement/Materials
Management Review
8/91                Review of FY91 operating    Rallways EngLneer-   S
and fLnancial                ing/operations
performance.                 Specialist
Review of project-related   FinancLal Analyst
procurement activities
and progress.
1/92               Review of operating and      Rallways Engineer-   5
financLal performance and   Lng/operatLons
progress in project          SpecialLst
implementation.              Financial Analyst
Years 92, 93        Same pattern as 90/91        RaLlways Engineer-   20 sw
Lag/Operations       p.a.
Speciallst
Financial Analyst
Year 94, 95, 96    Supervision Mlssions ins    Railways Englneer-   12 sw
(a) April/May of each       ing/Operations        p.a.
year to review plans    Specialist
for ensuing year and    Flnancial Analyst
progres in project
implementation
(b) September/October to
review full perform-
ance ln past year and
project progress
PCR mLssion ln late 1996.



-172-_  Chart 1
X S; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



rar IrON "I       UW31L                                   SamIwIa            am          SW
,I       *d    I:!B! 't-NI   ll-I     -3M3  113   $WMIS    a3IdiVU         31 1     MlI N L
wauwin                 m
Yaw                    -
NiVild  UIUINIWI     3hidVUL1AMUVOO
illJJ   SIIIllBlilElilil   1LWIISUG 
*M          nowl
cmmiuAD "Min
1    .30u II SAWflIV.
INdmm IWIVIddY UJVJ.
-n93



Chart 3
-174--                            ~~~~~~Page 1 of 2
_.                                                                                 I
Ii                                            I 1                                             d
W  *   t1    .  I     .                 .      I      . 
l__ i                                                                          H@



ITEM                      1990                         1991                       1992                 1993
S. SignallingfTelecom Equipment
Oid DocuAMntS/Spcif ictions          ........
Tendering
Eve Ivation/Contracte                                 -RX  i-i-U
Delivery
Insta l ltion/Comissionint                                          -o-o-oo-o-o-o- o-o---o-
7. Breakdown Crone
Bid Oc_mente/Specittictions         ......
Tedri ng                                     _ _
EVOtetl,on/Contractlng                                s-s-s s-
DIlivery
Imetal ltion/Coeietoning
S. Plants and Machinery
Bid Documente/Specitication         ...........
Tend KIng
Ev I usti on/Contrct Ing                               s-s- x-s-s-
Delivery-
Intal lotion/Coeitionening                  _   ___-.-
9. Electrification
Deoeln/Spefc tcamtone/sld Docs.   ..........
Tendring                                      -..____
Eva I otin/Contrctt ng                                       -N.UI-X-S-S-
Esecution                                                               -_-0
10. Trainins and School Eouigment
Bid Docwuente/Speclficteno          ........
Ten ern g    cla                                     x   --
E aut./Centrcig---i-a
Del ivery-
11. Techmical Assistance
'(Wms of Reference, Inv. for Bide...
Bide                                     .......
Eveluation/Contracting             s-x-x-s-
Sorvicee-0  4-O-O-O-O-o-5-O-O-o-O- e-O-o-o-                                                             0-.---- )0-O-O-
L_____    ......Bidding docrubm/st/pecifcestion                                                                                                     o
Tendering                                                                                                                  t
u-a-u-a-   Tender evaluatien end contracting
- -yDelivery
o-o-o-o-. Inet.llation/ceieei.nin_  exocutien of workrs/services 
0



IBRD 221)t
25~                                          27                     28'                   2O-
ZIMBABWE                                                                                                                   31
RAILWAYS 1I PROJECT
TRANSPORT NETWORK                                                     T.beko                                                     . ....'
-    Railways                     Rivers
Major State Roads      E   Province Capitals                            p"'
Secondary Stote Roads   --- Internotional Boundaries                                                                                                          ...'-.\._-
t   Main Airports
r         Sc  100G             150 s LOMETERS
TP S7o 0C                                             MILES                       /                                                                   f \j  RLen ,re
r*                          17'                                                                               j                                                                                                                             77
NAMIBIA  AN  v/ 
19_ _s,  EMvbbews bfhomo J^% /' 1 )
X         \ \                                                  L    trK                                                ttLDi'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntst
19nrpllceoF'Csc                                                                                                                                                                          ISJTasdr.   L E  5   X  1' 
A. f-d  A-  Ap &-,,,i. -, h. pd 0fl WhIEn ,zII_\\-W 8-A                                                                                                                                                   m
.,d A. I,*n_l Flt. CcOP  F. dC . k, 1
25'                    2d'              W*ASVIM                                                                                                                                     / \   !    /~, X   \   /    '    '
G 5-- A     WEEf)  7 ors  _ -20-               2LFAAY                               :l                                                                           70'
_<  -    X   ,  0 bo0; N>bu TASk                                                                                           \                                 \0,/*/g
TAN
Cods
ANGOLA      1'    I                                    B   O
,r Horor                                                                              .~4 21'brir                                            jC kb2
-------                                          2                                                       OF
NAMLIA
Windlolhl  oBO TSW A N A ,
SO    RI                      ~~~~~~~~~~~22'                                                                                                                                   22
__ Railwoays           2.-1                                   Z      s      OU   T   H,    A          F   RIC'l            ,        3,2'
FEBRUARY 1990



26                            25c                            le2
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL RAILWAYS                                                                                    MOZAMBIQUE
INTER-DISTANCES KMS,
RULING GRADIENI , AND CURVES                                f                                                      Ruya
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4o .2- t.     i     
Lake~~~~~~~~z
{ZAMBIA              /                                                                                   4
BOTSWANA                            \t 
m d,,go r.0s 255NI 
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
2d~~~~~~~~~~~~\ XMaslrnpo                                                                            !                } 
.4-4-44-.ELECMRWIM TRAIE
IAN III FD CL Z.  ; 
lNTERNATIONA SOUNDMRES
o      so      sos    Iso
so h50               lo                                                           Chkuaua          MOZAMBIQUE
W~~~~~~~~~~*2.s  =D:-.- 5                                                                                  N -/aw
3R  S3M .55       5 4                                             OUTL4 AF/WEU
2_                             2                              20                            02



