ZAIVA &d/-8f4            FL      -C   p
FILE     COPY                R E S ESTRICTED
Report No. TO-636a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
MALAYSIA
August 20, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1. 00                M$3. 00
M$1. 00                 US$o. 33
M$, 000, 000     =      US$333,333
ABBREVIATIONS
gallon           =      imperial gallon
-       1.20 U. S. gallons
IMgd             =      million Imperial gallons
per day
gcd              _      gallons per capita per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1               December 31



APPRAISAL OF THE
KUALA LUMPUR WJATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
MALAYSIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
1.  INTRODUCTION                                               1
2. THE PROPOSED BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY                       2
A. The Borrower                                        2
B. The Beneficiary                                     2
Organization and Management                    2
Accounts and Audit                             3
Financial Position and Earnings                4
Present Financial Position                     5
Past Earnings                                  6
Water Charges                                  7
Billings and Collections                       8
Present Water Services and Use                 9
Water Quality                                 11
The Sewerage System                           11
3. THE PROJECT
Description of the Project Works                      12
Other Works                                           12
Cost Estimates                                        12
Planning, Design and Supervision of
Construction                                     14
Procurement and Disbursement                         114
4. JUSTIFICATION                                              15
5. FUTURE FINANCING                                           17
Financing Plan                                        17
Financial Projections                                 18
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                            19
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of Messrs.
V. Rajagopalan and G.A. Apcar which visited Kuala Lumpur in October/November
1967.



LIST OF ANMEXES
ANNEX
1    Organization Chart of the Selangor State PWD Water
Supply Division
2    Pro Forma Income Statements Selangor State 1962-1974
3    Pro Forma Income Statements, Kuala Lumpur area 1962-1974
4    Schedule of Current Water Charges
5    Existing Water Supply Systems in Kuala Lumpur
6    Technical Description of Proposed Project
7    Cost Estimates of Proposed Project
8    Construction Schedule
9    Population and Water Consumption Graphs
10    Pro Forma Balance Sheets Selangor State December 31, 1968-1974
11    Sources and Application of Funds Selangor State 1968-1974
12    Assumptions for Financial Projections
MAPS
1    Water works in Selangor State
2    Proposed Project



APPRAISAL OF THE
KUALA LUNPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
MALAYSIA
SUMlMRY
i.        The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to assist
in financing a project to improve and expand the water supply facilities
in the Kuala Lumpur area. This report covers the appraisal of the pro-
posed project.
ii.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$7.7 million
of which the foreign exchange portion, presently estimated at USI3.6 million,
would be covered by the proposed Bank loan.
iii.      The borrower would be the Government of Malaysia and the pro-
posed loan would be relent to the Selangor State Government for use by its
Public WTorks Department (PRnD), which will be responsible for the project.
The Bank would enter into a project agreement with the State Government.
iv.       The Water Supply Division of the PWD operates all public water
supply systems in the State and the water works are reasonably well
maintained.
v.        The project is technically sound, estimated costs are reasonable
and the PWD is capable of carrying out the work and operating the system.
The project is essential to meet the water demand in the area.
vi.       New water charges put into effect in January 1966 have resulted
in substantial net revenues.    However, the present system of accounting
does not provide adequate financial data for a complete financial
evaluation of the water supply operations in the State. Management consult-
ants are tobe engaged to assist in the changeover to a commercial system
of accounting. The financial forecasts show that the internal cash
generation from operations, net of debt service, would more than cover
the estimated local currency costs of the proposed project during the
construction period.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$3.6 million for a
period of 20 years, including a 4 year grace period.



APPRAISAL OF THE
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
MALAYSIA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has applied for a loan from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to help finance
a project to improve and expand the water supply facilities in the
Kuala Lumpur area. The loan would amount to US$3.6 million to cover
the foreign exchange costs, comprising about 47% of the total project
expenditures including contingencies, provision for price increases,
the cost of consulting services and interest during construction.
Local currency costs for this project would be financed by funds
generated from internal operations.
1.02      The future solurces of water supply to meet the demands of
Kuala Lumpur have been studied by Binnie and Partners, a British
firm of engineering consultants, retained by the Water Supply Division
of Selangor State Public Works Department (PWD) to make an economic
and technical appraisal of existing and planned water supply works.
The consultants' studies indicated that the requirements of Kuala
Lumpur and the Klang Valley should be considered together, (see Map 1)
and that the development of the Langat River (Sungei Langat) in stages
would be the most economical means to meet the requirements of the
region. The proposed project is based on the first phase of development
of the Langat River, (See Map 2).
1.03      The proposed project would entail the reorganization of the exist-
ing Water Supply Division of the PWD into a financially self-contained
unit with an independent accounting system. The main items of works
would include the provision of an additional source of water supply of
about 14 3]4gd and the strengthening of the existing distribution system.
1.04      The appraisal of this project is based on information submitted
to the Bank by the Water Supply Division of the Public Works Department
of Selangor State in Malaysia, consultants' reports, and on field
investigations by a Bank appraisal mission to Kuala Lumpur in October!
November 1967 by Messrs. Rajagopalan and Apcar.



- 2 -
2. THE PROPOSED BORRCWER AND BENEFICIARY
A. The Borrower
2.01      The borrower would be the Government of Malaysia which would
relend the proceeds of the loan to the Selangor State Government for use
by its Public Works Department (PND). The project would be carried out
and operated by the PND Water Supply Division. The Bank would enter into
a project agreement with the State Government.
B. The Beneficiary
Organization and Management
2.02      Although Kuala Lumpur is the Federal Capital of Malaysia, the
water supply system is owned, operated and maintained by the Selangor State
Government along with other water supply systems in the State. The supply
to the public is governed by the Water Supply Enactment of the Federated
Malay States and the Water Supply (Selangor) Rules made under the Enactment
from time to time. The Rules cover various aspects of water supply admin-
istration in the State, including specifications, plumbing standards,
metering and water charges, The State PWD is responsible for the design,
construction, administration, operation and maintenance of all public water
supplies and public works in the State, such as buildings and roads. Matters
relating to policy and finance are subject to approval by the State
Executive Council, which corresponds to the Cabinet at the Federal level.
It consists of no more than eight and no less than four elected legislators,
together with three ex-officio members.
2.03      The PWD comes under the direction of the State Engineer who is
assisted by two superintending engineers for water and other public works
respectively, one senior mechanical engineer and a Deputy State Engineer.
Public water supplies in the State come under the direction of the Super-
intending Engineer - Water who coordinates the water supply activities in
the State and provides the necessary guidance and control over the opera-
tions. Water supply systems in the Kuala Lumpur area are under the charge
of a senior executive engineer. The Superintending Engineer - Water and
the Executive Engineer for the Kuala Lumpur Water Supply systems are ex-
perienced and qualified engineers.
2.04      The appointments of engineers are regulated by a system of
selection based upon technical qualifications and experience, adminis-
tered by the Federal Public Services Commission. Technical assistants
and lower categories of personnel are recruited through the State Public
Services Commission. The employees of the FWD are State Government servants.
An organizational chart of the PWD, including the Water Supply Division and
a more detailed description of the present water supply organization are
given in Annex 1.
2.O5      The PWD utilizes the services of consultants for engineering design
and supervision of construction of major water works in the State. Distribu-
tion system expansion and improvements and routine operation and



- 3 -
maintenance are carried out by department staff. The water supply systems
have been maintained satisfactorily.
2.06       However the existing organization suffers at the operating level
due to lack of adequate training and experience of its staff. A beginning
has already been made to remedy this situation with the recent appointment
of a qualified chemist to ensure proper control over the treatment processes.
Training programs for the operating personnel are also under consideration.
Stocksof chemicals are maintained at various water works depots but
inventory controls are inadequate. Another weakness in the organization
arises from deficiencies in past planning which have resulted in the
construction of facilities far ahead of requirements in the outlying areas
of the State. The proposed project,-however, has been realistically
phased and the existing organization, with some additional staff, would be
capable of operating and maintaining the project satisfactorily.
2.07      The possibilities of setting up a separate water supply
authority for the Kuala Lumpur area, or one authority for the State, which
would include the Kuala Lumpur area were examined and found impracticable.
There is at present a shortage of technical personnel in Malaysia and a
division of the PWD into one authority for water and another for other
works would increase the demand for skills thus creating serious personnel
difficulties particularly in the category of supervisory staff. There would
be increased operating costs and, for the early years, a drop in operating
efficiency.
2.08      The water supply systems in the State have been satisfactorily
managed and at this stage the PWD - Water Division should continue to be
responsible for the systems in the State subject to arrangements referred
to in paragr2ph 2.11.
Accounts and Audit
2.09      The PWD, including the Water Supply Dlvision, operates under the
Government accounting system on a cash basis. All expenditures are met
from annual budget appropriations and all cash receipts are passed into
the State Treasury. The PWD maintains accounts for expenditures incurred
on all public works, including water works in the State. While it is
possible to identify capital expenditures incurred for water supply systems
it is not possible to separate and allocate administrative costs, including
salaries and other emoluments, for the water supply division of the PWD.
2.10      Revenue from water supply operations in the State is accounted
for separately under a centralized accounting system for water revenue,
introduced in 1958. This function is carried out by the PWD Central Accounts
Office for water supply under the direction of a qualified Chartered



Accountant who reports to the Superintending Engineer - Water. Since
the establishment of the Central Accounts Office, consumer accounts
have increased threefold to over 82,000 accounts by the end of 1967.
This rapid expansion has brought in its wake administrative and account-
ing problems such as shortage of qualified staff and inadequate account-
ing equipment. Plans are underway to recruit additional staff and
orders have been placed for additional equipment.
2.11      The present system of accounting does not provide adequate
financial data for efficient management or information for the financial
evaluation of the undertaking. The State Government recognizes the
deficiencies in the present organization and has agreed to reorganize
and thereafter maintain the Water Supply Division as a financially
separate unit responsible for construction, operation and maintenance
of all water supply systems in the State of Selangor with its own system
of accounting and financial management. In order to carry out these
changes the State Government will engage management consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, to study and make recommendations for the re-
organization of the Water Supply Division and the changeover to the new
system of accounting. The terms of reference to the management con-
sultants upon which the Bank has commented include valuation of assets
and preparation of opening financial statements. The State Government
has further agreed that all revenues from the supply of water by the
Water Supply Division shall be made available to the Water Supply
Division to the extent necessary for the conduct of its operations.
2.12      The accounts of the NWD, including the Water Supply Division,
are audited by the Auditor General, Malaysia. As the Water Supply
Division will continue as a part of PWD the annual audit will continue
to be undertaken by the Auditor General or by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, appointed by the Auditor General.
Financial Position and Earnings
2.13      Since the accounts of the Water Supply Division are kept on a
cash basis, an atteznpt has been made to recast them for the years 1962-
1967 to approximate the results which would have been reported if the
accounts had been kept on a commercial basis. Pending the valuation
of assets and preparation of opening financial statements referred to
previously, pro forma income statemenia shown in Annex 2 covering the
period 1962-1967 and a summary of a notional balance sheet as at
December 31, 1967 were prepared for purposes of this report. The
summary of the balance sheet was used as a starting point for the pro
forma balance sheets projected for 1968-1974. The pro forma income
statements for 1962-1967 and the summary of the notional balance sheet
as at December 31, 1967 should be considered merely as a general
indication of the Water Supply Division's financial position since
the records from which they were derived may not be complete.



Present Financial Position
2.14      A summary of the notional balance sheet for the Selangor State
PID Water Division as at December 31, 1967 follows:
Malaysian Dollars   US$ equivalent
- ----__--  -- EI i000-
ASSETS
Gross Plant in Service                     106,684           35,561
Less: Accumulated Depreciation              11,807           -3236
Net Plant in Service                   94,877           31,625
Work in Progress                             8,935            2,979
Current Assets                               3.000            1,000
Total Assets                          106,812
LIABILIrIES
State Government Participation              74,056           24,685
Federal Government Loans                    29,328            9,776
Current Liabilities                          1,428              476
Customers Deposits                           2,000              667
Total Liabilities                     106,812           35,604
The value of gross plant in service represents the original book value and
is based on available records of capital expenditure and does not include
cost of land. The current assets include inventories at book value and
accounts receivable. Accounts receivable are small because billings and
collections are unusually prompt (see paragraph 2.25). No cash balances
are included under current assets since the W4ater Supply Division does
not retain control over its own cash funds. Current liabilities consist
of accounts payable, which have been estimated at the equivalent of two
months operating costs excluding depreciation and the current portion of
long-term debt.
2.15      Capital expenditures have been financed by State Goverrnaent
budget appropriations and Federal Government loans to the State for
specific water supply projects. In the pro forma balance sheets the
equity is represented by State Government participations.



-6-
Past Earnings
2.16      The income statements 1964-1967 summarized below were compiled
from the available records of collection, salaries and administrative
expenses. Notional straight-line depreciation, at 2-1/2% of estimated
gross plant in service, and indirect overhead charges, at 40% of salaries
and administration expenses, were added. Separate statements were prepared
for the Kuala Lumpur area, which accounts for about 77% of revenues of the
Water Supply Division's operations in the State (see Annex 3).
Fiscal Year Ending December 31,
___ 3LMSL__    165              1266 _1967
State*  K.*     S           L**  State*$ K.L*_*   State*__  L*
(In '000 MfalaysianDollariF         --
Total Revenues    9,401    7,,451  7,334   5,295  lo,566   8,o95  11,866   9,109
Operating cost:
Operation and
Maintenance     5,009    2,477   5,154   2,347   5,808   2,741   6,211    3,134
Depreciation    1,683      993   2,094   1,122   2,426   1,259   2,667   1,402
Total Operating
Cost            6,692            7 248   3,469   8,234   4o000   8,878   4,536
Net Income from
Operations       2,709    3,981      86   1,826   2,332   4,095   2,988   4,573
Average net plant
in service                                                       91,392  47,318
Return on average
net plant in service %                                             3.3      9.7
The above statement. indicates that the Kuala Lumpur area has been making
a satisfactory level of earnings while the other systems within the State have
been operating at a loss. The present water charges are estimated to yield a
return of about 9.5% on the net fixed assets in service in the Kuala Lumpur
area which is satisfactory. Outside the Kuala Lumpur area losses have been
incurred because the water supply systems are small, widely scattered and
utilized at 15% to 50% of their capacities. (see paragraph 2.19).
* State includes the Kuala Lumpur area.
** K.L: Kuala Lumpur area.



-7-
Water Charges
2.17      Water service connections, except public standpipes and fire
hydrants are metered and charged for on the basis of measured monthly
consumption. Some of the public standpipes are metered but are not read.
No charges are levied for water drawn from the fire hydrants, for fire
driUs, fire fighting and street cleaning. The State Government has
agreed to the principle of a charge for water supplied through public
standpipes, to impose a charge on the local authority for the water con-
sumed and to transfer the amount involved to the water supply account.
The actual charge will be decided after the study of water charges
referred to in paragraph 2.19 is completed but in calculating revenues
for financial projections commencing July 1, 1969, a charge of M$0.50
per 1,000 gallons of water supplied through public standpipes has been
assumed which is similar to charges for concessionary supplies to chari-
table institutions which are adequate to cover the cost of production
and supply of water.
2.18      Uniform water charges are adopted for both the urban and rural
water supplies in the State, and prior to 1965 payment for water was
based either on metered consumption or on flat rates for unmetered con-
nections. At the end of 1964 flat rates for unmetered supplies were
abolished and revised water charges, based only on metered consumption,
were introduced effective   January 1, 1966.  See Annex 4 for schedule
of water charges.
2.19      The uniform water charges adopted by the State Government are
not based on the cost of service provided in each individual area but
are determined with a view to earning sufficient revenues to make the
water supply operations in the State as a whole financially remunerative.
Increases in water charges, and changes in the rate structure, have been
carried out periodically and the present water charges are at about the
same level as the charges for similar services in other States in
Malaysia and in Singapore. It is estimated on the basis of information
presently available that the existing water charges are sufficient to
provide for 1968 and subsequent years a return of over 8% on the average
net fixed assets in operation in the Kuala Lumpur area, which is con-
sidered satisfactory (see Annex 3).  However, on a statewide basis when
all the water supply systems are considered, although it would be desirable
to aim for an 8% return  the present charges would produce returns of
about 3.5% (see Annex 25. In the outlying areas the present charges do
not cover full costs because of the nature of the systems as described
in paragraph 2.16. It is believed however that higher water charges in
these areas might slow the pace of utilization of the existing facilities
and would not result in significant increases in revenue. Furthermore, the
adoption of different water charges based on cost of service for each of the
small water supply systems would create administrative problems and increase
costs which would not be commensurate with possible increase in revenues.
The adoption of uniform charges which in this case leads to subsidizing
the water supply to the population in the outlying areas is, therefore,
considered to be a practical solution which should be accepted as the



- 8 -
State Government agreed during negouiations to maintain the uniform charges
at a level which would be sufficient to provide revenues representing a
return of not less than 8% per annum on the average net fixed assets in
operation for the Kuala Lumpur area. In this connection the accounting
system to be established on the basis of the management consultant's
recommendations will provide for the identification of assets, revenues and
costs of the Kuala Lumpur area separate from the rest of the State.  Manage-
ment consultants will also review the existing water charges and make
appropriate recommendations and any increase found necessary will be put
into effect by the State Government.
2.20      With gradual urbanization and population growth in the outlying
areas, the need for the larger system subsidizing the operations of the
smaller ones would diminish and the overall return should increase from
3.5% per annum ultimately reaching the same level as for Kuala Lumpur.
However, to ensure that the overall return improves steadily, periodic
reviews of water charges should be made and effective control should be
exercised over future capital expenditures in connection with water supply
schemes in the State. Towards attaining these objectives the State
Government agreed during negotiations that it would review with the Bank
periodically its investment program for water supply projects in Selangor
State.
2.21      Changes in water charges are initiated by the PO in the form of
recommendations made to the State Secretary who then presents them to the
Executive Council. On approval by the Council , the document containing
the revised charges is signed by the Sultan and published in the Govern-
ment Gazette. Three to twelve months are required to effect a rate change.
2.22      In addition to the water charges, customers pay the cost of the
water service connection excluding the cost of the meter which is provided
and maintained by RPD. The connection charge ranges from M$20 to M$40
depending on the size of the connection. Customers are also required to
deposit an amount equivalent to the estimated cost of two months' supply
of water.
2.23      In the case of large housing colonies the developers pay the
installation costs for the water mains and hydrants. Fire hydrants within
municipal limits are installed and maintained at the expense of the
Municipality while those outside the municipal lirmits are installed and
maintained by PWD.
Billings and Collections
2.24      Prior to 1958 Local Authorities such as I$uicipalities, Town
Councils, etc., were responsible for the collection of water revenues in
the State. The question of establishing a suitable organization for the



- 9 -
collection of water revenues was examined by a committee appointed by the
State Government in 1956. This resulted in a revision of the accounting
and billing procedures and the creation of a consumer accounts section
within the PWD responsible for billings, collections and accounting.
Upon the request of the Kuala Lumpur Municipality that it be relieved of
its responsibilities for the collection of water revenues in the Kuala
Lumpur area, Government decided that the PWD should take over these
functions. In other areas Local Authorities continue to collect on a
commission basis.
2,25      Billings and collections have been efficiently carried out and
the amount of unpaid accounts is insignificant. Trade and government
institutions are billed on a monthly basis, and other categories of con-
sumers bimonthly, The bills are normally presented at the premises by
meter readers. If bills are not settled within 21 days a reminrLder is
issued. Failure to pay a bill within seven days thereafter results in
disconnection of the supply, Cn the average 2O,400 service connections
are cut off each year although almost all discontinued services are
reconnected within a short tine when the dues, including the cost of
reconnection, are paid.
Present Water Services and Use
2.26      There are 21 water stupply systems in Selangor State of which the
Kuala Lumpur system is the largest. They provide piped water to both the
urban and rural population, The Kuala Lumpur public water supply system
originated in 1892 with the construction of the Ampang impounding reservoir.
During the intervening 75 years the system has expanded steadily and has
endeavoured to provide for the city's increasing water requirements. The
main water works in the State are shown in Map 1.
2.27      The Kuala Lumpur system derives its supply from three sources -
two reservoirs and a stream, with total capacity of 42 IMgd during normal
years, and about 35 IMgd during dry years. The water from the main source
is treated by clarification, fifltration, and chlorination and supplies
from other sources are chlorinated before entering the distribution system.
The system includes a total of about 620 miles of transmission and
distribution mains, serving the Kuala Lumpur municipality, Petaling Jaya
township and adjacent rural areas. A detailed description of the water
supply systems is given in Annex 5. Map 2 indicates the sources and the
principal transmission mains.
2.28      In the Klang Vplley, in addition to the Kuala Lumpur water supply,
two other systems having treatment facilities have been installed at
Damansara and North Hummock, with a total capacity of about 16 DMgd. The
full capacity of the Damansara supply will not be utilized until about 1971.
It is therefore planned to divert part of this supply to Kuala Lumpur to
meet the demand until the proposed project comes into operation.



- 10 -
2.29      Almost 90% of the water produced by the public water supplies
in Selangor State during 1967 was provided by the Kuala Lumpur and Klang
Valley water supply schemes. This position is not expected to change
appreciably in the next 5 to 7 years.
2.30      In 1967, some 70% of the total population of about 1,400,000
was served from the public water supply systems In the State. In the
Greater Kuala Lumpur area which covers approximately 114 square miles
and which includes the Kuala Lumpur municipality, Petaling Jaya township
and surrounding urban and rural communities, the population served was
estimated at approximately 610,000. Several mines, rubber estates and
manufacturing firms have private supplies both for manufacturing processes
and domestic consumption. Where necessary, substantial quantities are
also drawn from the public mains to supplement their private supplies.
Small villages situated at mining and agriculture areas obtain water from
natural water courses which are often polluted. Reliable figures in
regard to actual consumption by private water supplies are not known.
However, the available data indicates that it is a small percentage of
the total water consumed in the State.
2.31      Although quantitative data on use of water by different cate-
gories of consumers are not available, based on monthly collections it is
estimated that about 65% of tlho total is consumed by domestic users with
house service connections, 20% by commercial and industrial users, 10% by
public standpipes and 5% by religious and charitable institutions
including  concessionary supplies to low-cost government housing schemes.
Information available for the years 1962 to 1967 indicates that the average
per capita consumption in the State increased from 33 to 39 ged, and from
37 to    ged in Kuala Lumpur.
2.32      As of December 31, 1967, there were 88,662 water service con-
nections in the State, including 2 ,257 public standpipes and 4I,263 fire
hydrants as follows:
Kuala Lumpur       Other
System          Systems       Total
Domestic                         42,580 )              )
Trade                             9,212 )        30,,141)      82,136
)              )
Religious and Charitable                )              )
Institutions                     203 )              )
Low cost housing
developments                       6            -                6
Public standpipes                   626           1,631         2,257
Fire hydrants                     3,o84           1,179         4,263
55,711          32,951        88,662



- 11 -
2.33      Public standpipes are provided as a temporary measure at
Government's direction in squatter areas in order to reduce the health
hazard to the population. They are also provided in rural areas where
house service connections would be too costly at present for the inhabi-
tants.
Water Quality
2.34      Water distributed by the various systems in Selangor is safe
bacteriologically and of good chemical quality. In some parts of the
State, the presence of excessive iron is characteristic of the raw water.
The chemical and bacteriological characteristics of the water before and
after treatment are determined regularly as a basis for the control of
the water treatment processes. Samples of water taken from various points
in the distribution system are analyzed and tested regularly to determine
chlorine residuals and evidence of contamination and deterioration in the
quality of water in the distribution system, and the water division has
taken precautionary measures to assure the safety of the supply by in-
creasing the chlorine residuals where necessary. Health statistics for
Selangor indicate a low incidence of diseases normally attributed to
inadequate or deficient water supply systems.
2. 35     Water pressures in the distribution system are generally
adequate and service is continuous.
The Sewerage System
2. 36     Because of its interrelation with the water supply system, the
Kuala Lumpur sewerage and sewage disposal arrangements have been reviewed
to determine the immediate problems which might be created as a result of
the construction of the water project.
2. 37     Sewerage and waste disposal in Kuala Lumpur are managed by the
Municipality. Loans from the Federal Government have provided for the
construction cost of sewers for Kuala Iumpur and maintenance, operation
and administration expenditures are met from general property taxes.
Records indicate that although the Kuala Lumpur Municipality has been
steadily extending the sewerage system since 1960, it has satisfied the
needs of only a small percentage of the population. The system serves an
approximate population of 130,000 concentrated in the heart of the city.
There are no other public sewerage systems or sewage disposal arrangements
in the State.
2. 38     The proposed water supply project may be expected to create some
problems of waste water disposal as the sewerage system does not cater to
the entire area. The Government is aware of the deficiencies in the
existing sewerage system and has approached the UNDP for assistance in
preparing a Master Plan for sewerage in the Kuala Lumpur area. In the
meantime, expansion of the sewerage system in the Kuala Lumpur area is
being continued by the municipality.



- 12 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      Description of the Project Works
The proposed project would comprise the first stage of a long-
range program to develop the water resources of the L'.n-;c t river as a
major source of water supply to Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley. It
is proposed that eventually the Lanoat river would be developed to yield
about 85 IMgd. The project now under consideration would have an overall
capacity of about 14 Ilgd.  Certain elements, however, would be constructed
with a capacity of 28 IfKgd to accommodate the second stage works antici-
pated during 1978 to 1981. A more detailed description of the project is
given in Annex 6, while Map 2 shows the location of the proposed works.
3.02      The project would include intake works on the river, raw water
pumping station and pumps and a raw water pumping main to the treatment
plant site.  These items, except the pumps, would be sized to accommodate
the second stage works.  The raw water would be treated by clarification,
utilizing chemical coagulants, rapid sand filtration and chlorination.
Following treatment, the water would be pumped through a short pumping
main to a balancing reservoir. From the balancing reservoir, water would
flow by gravity through a seven mile long transmission main to a 4-1/2
million gallon terminal storage reservoir. On route, the transmission
main would be tapped to feed another terminal storage reservoir of 2-1/2
million gallon capacity. The terminal storage reservoirs would be sited
at strategic locations, and additional distribution mains would be laid
to strengthen the existing distribution system, extend the areas of supply
and balance supplies from different sources. The various structures at
the treatment plant and storage reservoir sites, which are based on the
results of studies by Messrs. Binnie and Partners, engineering consultants,
are appropriately phased to meet the water requirements of the area, and
would be designed and constructed to accommodate future additions.
3.03      Other Works
During the construction period other major water supply works
already in progress in the State would continue. According to present
plans, these works would be substantially completed by 1971, but routine
expansion and improvements of the distribution systems would continue at
a somewhat higher rate than during the past few years.
3.04      Cost Estimates
The total cost of the project is estimated to be about M$23.0
million (equivalent to about US$7.7 million), including interest on the
proposed Bank loan during construction. The proposed Bank loan would
coverthe foreign exchange costs of those items of supply and equipment
for the construction program procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding, as wrell as the foreign exchange cost of engineering and management



- 13 -
services. The cost estimate is summarized below and given in detail in
Annex 7 which also gives the estimated expenditures year by year.
in M$                   in US$
Local   Foreign  Total   Local Foreign   Total
------------ thousand -------------------
Intake and treatment
works, pumping stations
and reservoirs             5,010   1,380   6,390   1,670     460   2,130
Electrical and mechani-
cal equipment and pumps      370   2,510   2,880     123     837     960
Raw water and trans-
mission mains              1,080   1,330   2,1410    360     443     803
Distribution mains         2,000   2,000   44,ooo    667     667   1,334
Land acquisition
surveys and studies          750    -        750     250    -        250
Sub-total             9,210   7,220  16,430   3,070   2,407   5,1477
Contingencies              1,270  1085    2,355     423     362     785
Total construction
cost                      10,480   8,305  18,785   3,493   2,769   6,262
Consulting services        1,020     530   1,550     340     177     517
Provision for price
escalation                   665     485   1,150     222     161     383
Interest during con-
struction                    -     1,522   1,522     -       507     507
Total                12,165  10,842  23,007   4,055   3,614   7669
3.05      Construction costs are derived from estimates by the consultants and
the Water Supply Division.   They are based on preliminary designs for the
project, results of recent bids for similar works in Malaysia and Singapore,
and on current quotations for equipment and materials. The estimates include
3% per annum for price increases and 15% for contingencies.  The estimated
costs of consulting services include detailed engineering, supervision of
construction, and management consultants' fees. The cost estimates for the
proposed project and assumptions on which they are based are reasonable.
The project is expected to be completed by October 1971. A construction
schedule is shown in Annex 8.



- 14 -
Planning, Design and Supervision of Construction
3.06      The engineering and economic feasibility studies on which this
project is based were carried out by the consultants who will also be
retained by the PWD to prepare detailed designs and tender documents as
necessary for the construction of the project as well as to supervise
construction. This arrangement is satisfactory. A considerable amount
of survey, investigation and preliminary design work has already been
done.
3.07      The PWD would be responsible for the construction of the
proposed project. Additional staff comprising a senior executive
engineer and supporting staff would be appointed and a new engineering
unit under the Superintending Engineer - Water, would be created for
implementing the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.08      The items to be financed by the Bank loan will be procured
through international competitive bidding except for consulting services.
Disbursements would be against the actual foreign exchange costs of
imported goods and against percentages of the costs of locally procured
goods and services. These percentages, which represent the foreign
exchange components of such costs, will be determined by agreement
between the borrower and the Bank following a study of each contract.
The local contracting industry is reasonably wen established and should
be able to compete for most of the contracts.
3.09      During negotiations it was agreed that a margin of preference
of 15% or the amount of customs duty whichever is lower will be allowed
for local manufacturers.
3.10      In the event of there being any savings in the foreign exchange
costs, it is intended that the unused balance of the loan would be
cancelled.



4. JUSTIFICATION
4.0l      The proposed project is included in the water supply and sewerage
program of the First Malaysia Plan (1966-70) which has been reviewed by
the Bank and found generally acceptable. The project is intended to meet
the growing water needs of an area which has considerable economic signifi-
cance to-the country. Kuala Lumpur is not only the Federal Capital of
Malaysia, but also the Capital of Selangor State and the main center of
population, commerce and industry in the Malay Peninsula. According to
recent statistics, approximately 40% of the net output of manufacturing
industries in West Malaysia was from Selangor State. Most of these
industries in Selangor are situated in and around Kuala Lumpur in the Klang
Valley.
4.02      The Rlang Valley is potentially an important industrial and com-
tercial region,  Construction of a highway from Port Swettenham to Kuala
Lumpur, the development of Petaling Jaya township, the establishment of the
International Airport Complex, the location of the proposed new capital of
Selangor State at Sangei Rengam, and the setting up of a nlew industrial
estate at Batu Tiga, adjacent to the proposed-new capital, are contributing
to the rapid urbanization of the Klang Valley. Construction work has begun
at the new capital and at the industrial estate sites.
4.03      An assessment of the future water needs of the Klang Valley
indicates that in the Greater Kuala Lumpur area, water demand would exceed
reliable capacity of the present sources by 1970. This is based on the
assumption that the per capita supply would remain constant at the present
level but that increases would be due to population growth during this
period. Indeed, the Water Division is already unable to assure supplies
to meet all the requirements of a number of housing and industrial develop-
ments in the area. Additional supply, treatment and transmission facilities
are now required (see paragraph 3.02), The possibility of temporarily
diverting supplies from other water supply systems in the region has been
considered, and it is prcposed to link the Damansara system with the Kuala
Lumpur system in 1968, in order to meet the normal increases in demand
until the proposed project comes into operation. Upon completion of the
proposed project the supply to the Greater Kuala Lumpur area would be
increased by about 14 DMgd. This additional capacity is estimated to be
fully utilized between 1978 and 1981 according to the assumptions made in
paragraph 4.05.
4.04      Future demand for water may be estimated realistically on a
regional basis only, as the supply can be met from different sources in
the region and the interconnected systems allow flexibility in operation
and optimum use of the sources.
4.05      Census and estimates of population available for West Malaysia
indicate that the population of Selangor State had almost doubled from
710,788 in 19h7 to an estimated 1,400,000 in 1967.  The growth in the
State betweenl1947 and 1957 was at 4.3% per annum. The last census was
taken in 1957. During the last 10 years the average rate of population



- 16 -
increase in the State has been estimated at about 3.3% per annum, whereas
in the Greater Kuala Lumpur area the rate of increase has averaged 3.9%
per annum. For the purpose of this report, future population increases
of 3% per annum for the State and 3.5% per annum for the Greater Kuala
Lumpur area are assumed. Based upon these assumptions the proposed
project is estimated to cover water requirements in the area up to 1981.
Should population growth continue at the high rate of 3.9% per annum,
the project capacity would be fully utilized by 1978-1979. Population
and water consumption projections are given in Annex 9.
4.06      The population picture in Selangor differs from the national
pattern reflecting the greater degree of urbanization of the State. In
1957 the proportion of population living in 'urban' units of over 1,000
persons was 42% for the Federation of Malaya, and 60% for Selangor State.
The population growth and extensive housing development programs have
also contributed to the spread of the population from Kuala Lumpur to the
outlying areas. As a result, the supply mains, distribution storage and
water pressures in the outlying areas have become inadequate. Improvements
to the distribution netwiork are needed and necessary provisions have been
included in the proposed project. In addition, the provision of satisfactory
water supply services in the area is an essential pre-requisite for pro-
viding water borne sewerage.
4.07      The proposed project has been selected after a careful technical
economic and financial evaluation of the alternatives available to meet
the water demand. There are seven river basins within practicable dis-
tances from the area of demand and the yield from any one of these sources
exceeds foreseeable future requirements of water. Consultants' study of
these sources indicates that the development of any one of these sources
would be feasible. However, as poUution problems are associated with
two of the rivers the choice of the source was made from five alternatives.
As each of the schemes could be developed in different ways, the most
economical development of each was first determined on the basis of present
worth of costs involved using a discount rate of 10% which is estimated to
be above the average level of return generally obtainable in the country. The
alternative schemes were then compared, using the same discount rate, and
the proposed project has the minimum capital and operating costs.
h.08      The project would permit water to be available at reasonable
charges and still provide a satisfactory financial return on investment.



- 17 -
5. FUTURE FINANCING
Financing Plan
5.01      A forecast of sources and application of funds for the years
1968 through 1974 is attached at Annex 11. This financial statement is
notional, as are the other financial forecasts in this report. They
would become meaningful only after the conditions set out in paragraph
6.03(a) relating to accounting practices are carried out. The financing
plan proposed during the loan disbursement period, 1968-1972 is sum-
marized below:
M$     US$ Equivalent
7In Millions)
Application of Funds
Proposed project construction costs             19.9      6.7
Engineering and management services              1.6      0.5
Interest during construction (IBRD Loan)         1.5      0.5
Other projects under construction               23.0      7.7
Working capital                                  5.5      1.8
51.5     17.2
=       =
Sources of Funds
Proposed IBRD loan                              10.8      3.6
Internal cash generation    35.6
Less: Debt service          14.8
Net internal cash generation                    20.8      6.9
Balance of Government loans
and State Government participation              19.9      6.7
5.02      Internal cash generation during 1968-1972, net of debt service,
would amount to M$20.8 million and would cover the equivalent of the
estimated local currency costs of the project. For purposes of the
financial projections, the proposed Bank loan of US$3.6 million is
assumed to carry interest at 6-1/2% per annum for a period of 20 years,
including a grace period of four years.



- 18 -
5.03      The Government of Malaysia has agreed to relend the proceeds
of the loan to the Selangor State Government on terms and conditions
similar to the Bank loan. The government also agreed to provide funds
required to complete the project if, during the period covered by the
loan, available funds were insufficient. Funds required to complete
other water supply systems in the State, presently under construction,
would be made available from the unutilized portions of the existing
Federal Government loans.
Financial Projections
5.04      The financial projections for the water supply division are
based on existing water charges, the proposed charge for water supplied
through public standpipes, and on estimated water consumptions.
5.05      Pro formaincome statements and balance sheets for 1968-1974
for the entire operation are given in Annexes 2 and 10. The statement
showing the sources and applications of funds is in Annex 11. For
purposes of comparison a pro forma income statement, 1968 through 1974,
for the Kuala Lumpur area is given in Annex 3. Financial assumptions
underlying the above mentioned statements are described in Annex 12.
5.06      A comparison of the pro forma financial statements of the
State and of the Kuala Lumpur area shows that the Kuala Lumpur area
operations may be expected to continue to subsidize the other water
supply systems of the State for reasons described in paragraphs 2.16
and 2.19. The rate of subsidy would, however, decrease in the future
as the utilization of the water facilities in the outlying areas
increase as a result of urbanization and population growth. On the
assumption that the proposed project would be executed on schedule, the
following overall financial situation may be expected:
a)   The forecasts indicate an accumulation of cash from about
M$2.0 million in 1971 to about M$10.0 million in 1974
(Annex 10). Those funds in excess of the amounts required
for the normal operation of the Water Supply Division could
be used for future major expansions, to accelerate repayment
of Federal Government loans and/or to make a contribution
to State Government in lieu of taxes or as a return on their
equity participation.
b)   The operating ratio, including depreciation would remain at
about 75% after construction of the project (Annex 2).
c)   The return on average net plant in operation in 1973 would
be 3.4% for all water supply schemes in the State, increasing
to 3.6% in 1974 with annual improvements thereafter, whereas
for the Kuala Lumpur area the return would be 8.5% and 9.2%
respectively which would be satisfactory (Annexes 2 and 3).
d)   Debt service coverage between 1972-1974 would be satisfactory
at 2.1:1 (Annex 11).



19
6*  CCCLUSIONS AND REOENDATINS
6,Ol      The proposed project is part of a technically sound long-term
program of works to improve and expand the water supply facilities in
the Kuala Lumpur areao The project would yield an additional supply of
14 3Mgd, strengthen the distribution system and provide for the reorga-
nization of the Water Supply Division of the Selangor State FWD.
6,o2      Cost estimates and financing plans are reasonable, and the
schedule for implementation is realistic. With the proposed reorgani-
zation of the accounting system, (paragraph 2..1), the Water Supply
Division would have adequate financial controls and could follow proper
accounting principles during the construction and operation of the
project.
6.o3      During negotiations of the proposed Bank loan agreements were
reached on the following:
a) The State Government would engage management consultants accept-
able to the Bank, to assist the FWD in the reorganization of the
water supply division as a financially separate unit with its
own system of accounting and financial management, and in the -
valuation of assets and preparation of opening financial state-
ments, All revenues from the supply of water by the Water Supply
Division would be made available to the Water Supply Division to the
extent necessary for the conduct of its operations (Paragraph
2.11).
(b) The accounts of the water supply division will be audited by
the Auditor General or by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank, appointed by the Auditor General (Paragraph 2.l2).
(c) The State Government would take steps to measure the quantity
of water supplied through public standpipes by appropriate
metering, impose a charge on the local authority for the water
consumed and transfer the amounts involved to the water supply
account (Paragraph 2.17).
d)   The management consultants would undertake a study of the water
charges presently enforced and submit recommendations on the
adequacy of rates (Paragraph 2.19).
e)   The State Government would maintain water charges sufficient
to provide revenues representing a return of not less than
8% per annum on the average net fixed assets in operation
for the Kuala Lumpur area (Paragraph 2.19).



- 20 -
f)   The State Govermnent would review with the Bank periodically
its investment program for water supply projects in Selangor
State (Paragraph 2.20).
6.04     Wlith the above agreements the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$3.6 million equivalent for a period
of 20 years including a 4-year period of grace.



MALAYSIA: KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SELANGOR STATE P.W.D. WATER SUPPLY DIVISION
|  GOVERNMENT OF SELANGOR
|CHIEF MINISTER
|   STATE SECRETARY                                      STATE FINANCE OFFICER
|  STATE ENGINEER P.W:D.                                 DEPUTY STATENGER
SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER                                          SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER                                        SENIOR MECHANICAL ENGINEER
(WORKS AND BUILDINGS)                                              (WATER SUPPLIES)
Headquarters Staff     Central Accounts Office  Senior E.ecutive                I       District Engineers  (7)                Financiol Assistant       E.ecutine Officer
Engineer IKL.I )                 I      in chorge of Water Supply,                   and                      and
I      Works and Buildings                       Clerical Staff           Clerical Staff
Engineers        2       Accountont       I       Engineers        2
Chemist          I       Financial Assistant  I   Engineering Assistants  2
Technical Assistants  3  Assistants      37       Technical Assistants  9                        
Office Staff     8       Meter Readers   37       Chief Clerk      I
Cierical Stoff  18
and                    KLANG DISTRICT         OTHER DISTRICTS (6)
Supporting Staff for
Treatment Plants,         Engineer         I       Technical Assistants  6
Distribution System,          Iwater Supply)           Water Supply)
Maintenonce and                   and                      and
Workshop      83             Supporting Stoft         Supporting Staff
WATER SUPPLY DIVISION
STATE GOVERNMENT OF SELANGOR (P.W.D.)
--~-- TECHNICAL CONTROL BY SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER (WATER SUPPLIES)                                                                                                                D
z
December, 1967                                                                                                                                                         (3R) IBRD-3639  >x



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
1.        The Sultan, or the Ruler in Council, is the Head of the State.
The State Executive Council, which corresponds to the Cabinet at the
Federal level, consists of no more than eight and no less than four
elected legislators together with three ex-officio members. The ex-
officio members are the State Secretary, the State Financial Officer
and the State Legal Adviser. The State Executive Council is presided
over by the Chief Minister (Mentri Besar) who is an elected member of
the State Legislative Assembly, and the political Head of the State.
The State Secretary, who is a civil servant, is in charge of administration.
2.        The PWD comes under the direction of the State Engineer who is
assisted by two superintending engineers, one senior mechanical engineer
and a deputy State Engineer. The PWD is responsible for the design,
construction, administration, operation and maintenance of all public
water supplies and public works in the State.
3.        The Superintending Engineer - Water is responsible for the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of all water supply systems in the
State. District engineers are in charge of all public works including
water supplies at the district level. In matters concerning water supplies
in the district, the Superintending Engineer - Water deals directly with
the district engineers.
4.        There are seven districts in Selangor - Kuala Lumpur, Klang,
Kuala Langat, Ulu Langat, Ulu Selangor, Kuala Selangor and Sabak Bernam.
(See Map 1).
5.        In the Kuala Lumpur district all water works come under the
direct control of a senior executive engineer who has the necessary
technical, financial and administrative supporting staff to take care of
the water supply systems in the district. This officer deals only with
water supplies and is not responsible for other PWD activities such as
roads and buildings.
6.        In the Klang district an engineer deals full time with water
supply activities, utilizing the supporting facilities provided by the
district engineerst office. In the remaining districts, where the water
supply systems are small, technical assistants and supporting staff are
employed full time on water supply activities under the general super-
vision of the district engineers.
7.        The Superintending Engineer - Water at the State level functions
as the technical head for the water supply operations in the State and
provides the necessary guidance and control over the operations.
8.        Maintenance of all water works pumps, engines and other mechanical
equipment comes under the direction of the Senior Mechanical Engineer (S.M.E.)
Spares for the equipment are maintained by the S.M.E. whereas stocks of
chemicals are maintained at the various water works depots.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
9.        Facilities and staff for the repair, calibration and testing of water
meters are available in the workshop under the charge of the Senior Executive
Engineer (Water Works) - Kuala Lumpur. A new meter workshop with a capacity to
test and repair 200 meters a day is under construction. It is expected
to be completed early in 1968 and placed under the charge of S.M.E. to
ensure satisfactory operation and control.
10.       The following billings and collection procedures are in operation.
Blank bills in triplicate suitably addressed are prepared in the Central
Accounts Office and supplied to the meter readers. The meter readers
record on the bills the quantity of water consumed during the billing
period and the amounts due, furnish one copy to the customer, one to the Central
Accounts Office and retain a copy.        Spot checks on meter readers
are carried out periodically by supervisory staff, who also handle complaints
and check upon abrupt fluctuations in water consumption. There are
various collection agencies in the State who receive a commission of 2-1/2%
to 5% of collections as agency fees. The bulk of the collections (about
50%) however, is made at the Central Accounts Office, where no agency fee
is involved.



MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUPR iATSR SU?PLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
?':iD 'ATiER 3UP'LY DTJISTJN
PRO FORMA INCOME STATEMENTS 1962 THROUGH 1974
(In '000 Malaysian Dollars)
Adjusted Actual                                                    Forecast
Fiscal Year Ending December 31         1962       1963      1964     1965      1966      1967      1968      1969     1970      1971      1972      1973      1974
Total water produced (treated) (D1g)   11,126    11,528    13,239   14,.11    15,620    17,060    17,655    18,275   1,915    19,575    20,555    21,585    22,665
Water unaccounted for ([Mg)             1,669     1,729     1,986     2,177    2,344     2,560     2,650     2,70      2,840     2,935    3,085     3,20      3,400
Total water consumed (IMg)              9,457     9,799    11,253   12,'33h   13,280    14,500    15,005    15,535   16,075    16,640    17,070    18,345    19,265
Pooulation in area served ('000)          790       809      851       901       950     1,015     1,050     1,085    1,125     1,165     1,210     1,255     1,305
Average daily metered suDoly (Dl4gd)     23.3      24.0      27.3     30.1      32.1      35.2      36.3      37.4     38.3      39.6      41.9      40.3      46.8
public standpipes and others (IMgd)       2.6       2.8      3.4       3.7       4.3       4.5       0.03      5.2      5.7       6.o       6.o       6.0       6.0
Operating Revenues
Water revenue                        7,477     8,337     9.092     7,081   10,310    11,618    13,728    10,603    15,512    16,058   16,859    17,703    18,591
Miscellaneous (installation etc.)      217       272       309      253       252       2u3       ?55       260      260       265       265       270       270
Total Revenues                7,694     8,609     9,001     7,33'   1(),566 6  Io       13,953 19,863       15,772   16,323    17,124    17,973   1l,861
Operating Costs
?ower, chemicals, maintenance        2,898     3,163     3,819     3,761    4,257     0,377     0,640     4,920    5,215     5,530     5,860     6,210     6,585
Salaries, administration               795       795       850      995     1,108     1,310     1,440     1,5'5    1,745     1,920     2,110     2,320     2,550
Contingencies                          318       318       30n       398      u43       520       575       635       700      770       845       930     1,020
Depreciation                         1,400     1,537     1,683    2,094     2,026     2,667     2,890     3,101    3,350     3.415     3,982    40041      4.091
Total Expenditures            5,411     5,813     h,692     7,20i    83,234    5,57d     9 54     10,281    11,010    11,635   12,797    13,501    14,246
Operating Income (before interest)      2,283     2,796     2,709       86     2,332     2,986     0,0438    4,582    0,762     4,688     4,327     4,072     4,615
Interest
Federal Government Loans                 5        25      4008    1,217     1,609     1,670     1,996     2,375    2,480     2,433     2,397     2,362     2,321
IBRD Loan                                        -         -             -              -          14       160      387       560       660       684       660
Less: Capitalized interest (-)         -         -         -        -         -         -         (14)     (160)     (387)    (560)     (001)      -
Interest charged to operations    5        25       008     1,217    1,609     1,670     1,99)     2    ,    2,050    2,433     2,656o    3,016     2,951
NET INCOME (LOSS)                       2,278     2,771     2,301    (1,131)     723     1,318     2,002     2,2O'.   2,282      2,255    1,671     1,426     1,634
Ratio of operating costs to total revenue (%)-      -         -         -         78        75        68        69        70       71        75        75         6
Times interest covered                      -       -          -       -         1.0       1.8       2.2       1.9       1.9      1.9       1.6       1.5       1.5   r
Return on average net Dlant in service (%)  -       -          -        -        -         3.3       4.5      40.        4.3       4,2      3.6       3.4       3.6
Note:  * The rate structure was changed in 1960, but the new rates were notn made effective umtil January ], 1966, resullting in difficulties in collections
and consequent losses in 1965 revenues.
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WIATER SUPPLY PROJECT - KUALA L-dFNUR AREA
0ID WATER .3PPLY DOVISIDN
PRO FORMA INCOME STATEMENTS 1962 THROUGH 1974
(In '000 Malaysiar. Dollars)
Adjusted Actual                                                     Forecast
Fiscal Year Ending December 31           1962      1963      1964      1965      1966       1967      19?68     1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      19T4
Total water produced (treated) (LMg)  8,178     8,292     9,790    10,572    11,175     11,6'5    12,060    12,480    12,915    13,365    14,035    14,735    15,470
Water unaccounted for (D4g)            1,227     1,244    1,468      1,586     1,676     1,7~50    1,810     1,870     1,935     2,005     2,105     2,210     2,320
Total water consumed (IMg)            6,951     7,0148    3,322     8,900      9,499     9,905    10,250    10,610    10,980    11,360    11,930    12,525    13,150
Population in area served ('000)        508       511       546       567       598        610       610       662       683       706       731       757       783
Average daily metered supply (IMgd)    18.1      18.1      22.0      21.0      24.9       25.8      2'.6      27.4      28.2      29.1      30.7      32.3      34.0
Public standDipes and others (IMgd.)    0.9        0.9      1.0       1.0       1.1        1.3       1.5       1.7       1.9       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Revenues                                                                     1/
Water revenue                          5,756     6,456    7,203      5,129-    7,917     8,917     9,379     ),973    11,147    11,528    12,125    12,750    13,406
Other (installation, miscellaneous)     153       198       243       166       178        192       20(       205       210       215       215       215       215
Total Revenues                 5,909     6,654     7,451     5,295     R,O9r     9,109      9,571    10,178    11,357    11,743    12,340    12,965    13,621
Operating Costs
Pwr, cThEemicals, maintenance         1,380     1,674     1,833     1,675     1,?57     2,105      2,230     2,365     2,505     2,655     ',815     2,985     3,165
Salaries and administration             450        450      1460       10        60        7jj       810       890       980     1,080     1,190     1,310     1,440
Contingencies                           180       180       184       192       22h        29h       324       356       392       432       476       524       576
Depreciation                        -   885       937       993     1,122     1,25'9    1,h02      1,1422    1,535     1,560     1,585     2,142     2,161     2,161
Total                           2,895     3,241     3,L'70    3,469     14,000    1,536     1,796      5,1 h6    5,b137    5,752     6,623     6,980     7,342
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                3,014     3,413     3,981     1,526     4,095     L,573    1,793      5,032     5.920     5,991     5,717     5,985      6,279
Interest
Federal Government Loans                  5         25      140o81,014         I ,1)-0   1,45I     1,5_LA    1 ,59    16141     1,606     1,581
IBRD Loan                                 -          -                                                I-  L -  11  16o   387       560        o          4       ooO
Less:  Capitalized interest (-)            -         -        -          -         -         -       (11)     (160)     (387)     (560)     (401)        -         -
Interest charged to operations          5        25       408     1,044     1, Xn3     i ,1 1    1,515     1,5965    1,6141    1,606     1,840     2,214     2,192
NhT INCCME                                3,(09     3,308    3,573        732     2,637     3         3,277     3,1J24279 24,385              3.877      3,742     4.087
Ratio of operating costs to
total revenue ('%)                      4         49       u?        66         49        50        50        51                                              , 69 54  54  54
Estimated net plant in service                                                          ;:9,666   52,379    51,861    51,304    50,719    70,838    69,423    67,262
Return on average net Dlant in
service (9) 9.7                                                                                   .9.4       ?.7      11.5      11.7       9.1       8.5       9.2
Note:  1/ The rate structure was changed in 19618, out the new rates were not made effective intil Jenuary 1, 1966, resulting ini difficulties in collections and
consequent losses in^ the 1965 revenues.
August 16, 1968



ANNEX 4
MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
Schedule of Current Water Charges
Effective 1.1.1966 water charges in Selangor State,
including the Kuala Lumpur area, are as follows:
(a)  Concessionary supplies (Mosques,            M$0.50/1000 gallons
religious and other approved                minimum charge M$2
charitable institutions).                   per month.
(b) Domestic supplies including                  M$1.00/1000 gallons
government premises, schools,               minimum charge M$2
swimming pools and clubs.                   per month.
(c) Trade (including supplies to                 M$1.20/1000 gallons
Public Restaurants, Hotels,                 minimum charge M$3
Markets, etc.)                               per month.
(d)  Part Trade/Part Domestic (i.e.,             M$1.20/1OOO gallons
where part or all of any premises           minimum charge M$2
connected to the supply is used             per month.
for purposes of trade or business
but water consumed therein is not
used for the purposes of the trade
or business carried on in the
premises but only for the purpose
of sanitation and hygiene).
(e)  Supplies to ships.                          M$3.00/1000 gallons
(f)  Concessionary supplies (low cost            M$0.60/1000 gallons
housing projects undertaken and             minimum charge M$2
maintained by the Federal Capital           per month.
Commission, State, Quasi State
Government bodies or the Federal
Government).
Charges for connection to Public Mains:
(1) Up to 1" diameter                            M$20.00
(2)  From 1" to 2" diameter                    VI$25. O
(3) From 241" to 3" diameter                     M$30.00
(4) Exceeding 3" diameter                        M$40.00



ANNEX 5
Page lof 2 pages
MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
Existing Water Supply Systems in Kuala Lumpur
General
The water supply to Kuala Lumpur area is derived from three sources -
Ampang Impounding Reservoir, Ampang Intake and Klang Gates Reservoir. The
Ampang sources are at a higher level than the Klang Gates reservoir and are
mainly utilized to serve the high level areas in Kuala Lumpur.
Ampang Impounding Reservoir
The reservoir was constructed in 1892 and it has a safe yield of
about 0.5 IMlgd. Certain upland streams in the area feed the reservoir and
the quality of water is generally such as to require no treatment. The
water drawn from the reservoir is chlorinated and conveyed to Kuala Lumpur
for distribution.
Ampang Intake
The Ampang Intake comprises a weir across the Ampang river, con-
structed in 1902. A few springs in the area are also tapped, and the total
safe yield from these sources is 3.5 INgd. The raw water passes through
coagulation and settling tanks and is conveyed to the city after disinfection
with chlorine. The water does not undergo filtration.
Klang Gates Reservoir
Klang Gates reservoir, wvith a capacity of 4,300 IMg has been
formed by the construction of a reinforced concrete dam across the Klang
river. The reservoir supplies raw water by gravity to the water treatment
works at Bukit Nanas in Kuala Lumpur city. The Klang Gates reservoir is
the main source of supply to Kuala Lumpur area. The safe yield from the
reservoir has been the subject of study for a number of years. The design
of the scheme was based on the assumption that the safe yield was 32 IMgd.
The first phase to supply 20 IMgd to Kuala Lumpur was completed in 1956 and
when the second phase was considered in 1962 the consultants estimated the
safe yield at 39 IMgd. Accordingly the second phase works were taken up
and completed by 1966. Further studies have shown that the safe yield might
be only 32 INgd. The existing facilities are as follows:
Draw Off Arrangements
The draw off arrangements at the Klang Gates dam originally
consisted of twin 46 inch diameter pipes protected by screens at a fixed
level. Recently a variable level draw off arrangement has been provided
and it is now possible to draw water of uniform quality from the reservoir.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2 pages
Raw Water Mains
Two interconnected concrete lined stee'l mains of 45 inch and 46
inch diameter respectively convey raw water by gravity from Knang Gates
reservoir to Bukit Nanas treatment plant. The mains are about seven miles
long and have a total carrying capacity of about 37 IMgd.
Bukit Nanas Treatment Plant
The treatment plant provides facilities for aeration, clarification,
filtration and disinfection of water. Under the first phase completed in 1956,
four Paterson accelators and 12 rapid gravity filters using high velocity up-
wash were installed. Four more accelators and 12 additional filters were
provided under the second phase completed in 1966. The second phase also
included the remodeling of the filters provided earlier, introduction of air
scour in the place of high velocity up-wash, improvements to the old
accelators and changes in the chemical treatment of water. The capacity of
the treatment plant is 38 IMgd.
Treated Water Storage
At Bukit Nanas treatment plant, two reinforced concrete storage
reservoirs with a total capacity of 8 IMg are available. In addition, storage
reservoirs are located at various points in the area and a total storage
capacity equivalent to a day's supply is available.
Distribution System
Approximately 620 miles of water mains (three inch diameter and
above) have been laid in the Kuala Lumpur area. A minimum residual pressure
of 30 feet is maintained in the distribution system, and supply is continuous.
A large section of the distribution area is supplied by gravity from the
storage reservoirs. There are three major and six auxiliary booster instal-
lations in Kuala Lumpur and Petaling Jaya and two more are under construction.



ANNEX 6
Page lof 2 pages
MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
Technical Description of Proposed Project
Alternatives Considered
The proposed project has been selected on the basis of analyses
of the available alternatives in the area. There are seven river basins
within practicable distance of the area of demand. Of these, six rivers -
Kerling, Selangor, Gombak, Batu, Klang and Langat - lie within Selangor
State whereas the Kenaboi is in an adjacent State. The yield from any
one of these sources exceeds the foreseeable future requirements. The
method of development suitable for each source has been examined and the
most economical project is that based on the Langat river.
River Intake Works
The intake works would be situated near Mile 10 on Ulu Langat road
and would comprise a weir structure across the river, impounding water to
a depth of about six feet. Provision would be made to flush silt at regular
intervals and a side channel would be included in the weir structure to pass
a proportion of the river flow downstream as compensation water. Water drawn
from the weir would be pumped after the removal of heavy silt and floating
matter to a treatment works situated adjacent to the Ulu Langat road. The
arrangement of the works would be such that they could be constructed in
three stages with a capacity of about 28 IMgd each.
Treatment Works
The treatment of the water from Langat river is not expected to
differ greatly from that required elsewhere in the State, and a normal
process of aeration, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and disinfection
has been proposed. The filters would be designed for a rate of 120-160
gallons/sq.ft/hour. The works would be kept as simple as possible, and
automatic and remote control provided only where it would result in greater
efficiency of operation with minimum maintenance problems.
A plant control laboratory, offices, workshop and stores would
also be provided at the treatment site. A clear water storage reservoir
sufficient for about one hour's supply would also be provided. The treated
water would be pumped to a balancing reservoir located on high ground near
the treatment plant from which the supply would be gravitated to the terminal
storage reservoirs.
Pumping Stations
The raw water pumping station would house pump-sets with a total
capacity of about 14 IMgd with 50% standby.
A similar arrangement would be adopted in the high lift pumping
station where pumps would lift the treated water to a balancing tank. The
total static lift involved would be about 210 feet.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2 pages
Pipelines
The pumping mains for raw water and treated water would be of
4811 diameter steel pipelines. The raw water main would be about 1000 feet
and the treated water main about 3000 feet. Each main would have a carrying
capacity of about 28 IMgd. The treated water gravity main from the balancing
reservoir to the terminal storage reservoirs would be about 37,000 feet.
The pipeline would be of steel, with a diameter of 33 inches.
Balancing Reservoir
A two-million gallon capacity reinforced concrete reservoir would
be constructed.
Terminal Storage
Two reinforced concrete reservoirs of 2 million gallons and
4h million gallons capacity respectively would be provided at the Cheras
Road site and Castle Field Estate. These two reservoirs would be at
sufficient elevation to meet normal demand in the areas of supply.
Distribution System
Some 65,000 feet of distribution mains, ranging in diameter from
15" to 36" are proposed to be laid to strengthen the distribution system in
the area. In addition, bulk water meters would be provided at cardinal
points in the distribution system to measure the consumption in different
areas. Some 20,000 consumer meters would also be provided.



MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELP.GO)R STATE
PWD ;'AT2jR .-U??L'f OTI131N
COST ESTIMATES OF PROPOSED PROJECT
Local Currenc  Exoenditures                                   Foreign Exchange
_M$1 000                                                (M$1,000)
1968     1969     1970     1971    1972     Total     1968     1969     1970     1971     1972     Total    Total Cost
Civil Engineering VWork
Site investigation, river intake'
and weir, pumping stations' and
treatment works      '                       75  "2090     1,220      105    3,490                140      530      330              1,000     4490
Reservoir and terminial storLage             430    1,000      4S       45    1,520                120      260                         380     1,900
Pipelines                                    320     640       60       60    1,080                420      910                       1,330     2,410
Plant and Equipment
Raw water intake and weir
equipment                                    30       30                        60                175      275       25       25       500       560
Pumps and electrical equipment                12      38       20                70                120      350      135       35       690       760
Treatment Plant                               50      125      65               240                280      690      275       75     1,320     1,560
Distribution System
Distribution mains, bulk meters
and service meters                  10      280      810     900             2,000                180      h00    1,020              2,000     4,000
Miscellaneous Cost
consulting services for engineering,
supervision and management          65      325      340     290             1,020      1l0       220      100       60                530     1J55Q
Land acquisition                             250                                250                                                               250
Survey and studies                   75      200      125     100               500                                                               500
Contingencies and provision
for price escalation                10      375    1,023     530             1,935        10      315      795      450              1,570     3,5%
SUB-TOTAL                      160    2,347    6,218   3,230      210   12,165       160    1,V70    4,710    2,385      135     9,320    21,485
Interest and other charges
during construction                 -        -        -       -        -        -         lit     18o      387      560      401     1,522     1,522
TOTAL                          160    2,347    6,219   3,230      210   12,165       174    2,130    5,097    2,905      536    10,842    23,007
August 16, 1968



MALAYSIA: KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT- SELANGOR STATE
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1T68       1969        1970          1971
D  DEC  JUL    DEC   JUL    DEC   JUL   DEC
SURVEYS
LAND REQUIREMENT PLANS
ACQUISITION OF LAND
TREATMENT PLANT           - DESIGN AND CONTRACT
- MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY B ERECT                 _               _
PUMPING PLANT             - DESIGN AND CONTRACT
- MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY a ERECT               -
WEIR GATES                - DESIGN AND CONTRACT
- MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY a ERECT
CONSTRUCTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERING WORKS AT MILE 10 -
WEIR AND RIVER INTAKE, TREATMENT WORKS, PUMPING STATION
- DESIGN AND CONTRACT                         -
- CONSTRUCTION
PIPELINES      PIPES      - CONTRACT
- MANUFACTURE AND DELIVERY                                     _
VALVES     - CONTRACT
- MANUFACTURE AND DELIVERY                                 -
PIPELAYING
- DESIGN AND CONTRACT
- CONSTRUCTION
RESERVOIR AND               DEINADCTRT
TERMINAL STORAGE          -DESIGN AND CONTRACT
-CONSTRUCTION                                  _     -
m
IBRD-3648(2R)        MONTHS FROM COMMENCEMENT OF PROJECT       0  3     9      15    2 1   27    33     39 



ANNEX 9
MALAYSIA: KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY
PROJECT- SELANGOR STATE
AVERAGE DAILY WATER CONSUMPTION PER HEAD
(IMPERIAL GALLONS)
50                                fl   I  I I   F      50
GREATER KUALA LUMPUR AREA __-
40                                                     40
y     ~~SELANGOR STATE
30                                   j 1               30
1947                        1962  1965      1970   1974
TOTAL POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
(MILLIONS OF PERSONS)
2.0                              1    1  1   1   1   1  1   1   1   2.0
1.5                                                    1.5
TOTAL POPULATION o
1.0                                                    .0
_~~~~~~~~~~~TE ARI                E ARE
.5                                                     5
POPULATIN SERVED :.: GREAT ER KUALA LUMP UR AREA
0 
1947               1957      1962  1965     1970   1974
(R)IBRD-3640



ANNEX 10
MALAYSIA - KIJALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELAN'GCR STATE
PWD WATER SUPPLY DIVISION
PRO FORMA BALANCE SHEETS 1968 THROUGH 1974
(In '000 Malaysian Dollars)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31           1968       1969      1970      1971      1972      1973       1974
ASSETS
TFed Assets              1/
Gross plant in service -       1   115,619   125,659   133,999   136,609   159,310   161,656   163,656
Less: Accumulated depreciation-     14,697    17,838    21,188    24,603    28J585    32,626    36,717
Net Plant in Service 2/       100,922    107,o21   112,b11   112,006   130,725   129,030   126,939
Work in Progress                    10,374    13,151    18,736    22,701     2,346     2,000      2,000
Current Assets
Cash 3i/                              -          L21       586     2,046     5,037     7,407     9,968
Accounts receivable                  2,288     2,434     2,586     2,676     2,810     2,950      3,099
Inventories                         1,350     1,400      1,450     1,500     1,600     1,700     1,800
Total Current Assets           3,638     4,255      4,622     6,222     9,447    12,057    14,7v
TOTAL ASSETS                 114 934   125,227    136,169   140,929   142,518   143,087   143,806
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
State Government oarticipation 1/ 70,007      73,007    75,007    75,007    75,007    75,007    75,007
Surplus                             2,442      b,649     6,931     9,186    10,857    12,283    13,917
Total                         72,4h9     77,656    51,930    b4,193    b5,b6L    57,290    55,92h
Long Term Debt
Federal Government Loans  /        38,528     bl,225    42,560    41,923    41,248    LO,537    39,786
ProDosed IBRD Loan                    174     2,30L      7,40l    10,126    10,272     9,852     941402
Total Long Term Debt          35,702    h3,529     49,961    52,049    51,520    50,3b9    L9,155
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                     1,110     1,190     1,277     1,370     1,L69     1,577     1,693
Current portion of long term debt
a) Federal Government               473       552        593       637       675       711       751
b) Proposed IBRD Loan                 -         -         -        180       390       h20       450
Total Current Liabilities      1,583      1,7142    1,570     2,157     2,534     2,705     2,597
Custaoers' Deposits                   2,200      2,300     2,400     2,500     2,600     2,700     2,800
TOTAL LIABILITIES            114,934   125,227    136,169   140,929   142,518   143,087   143,806
Current Assets/Current Liabilities
(excluding cash)                         2.3       2.2        2.2       1.9       1.7       1.7       1.7
Note: 1/   The amounts are notional and
subject to evaluation by
management consultants.
2/ Net plant in service for
Kuala Lumpur area            52,399    51,864     51,304    50,719    70,838    69,L23    67,262
3/ The cash position commencing 1969 is notional.   With the establishment of the Water Supply Fund
in 1969/70 working capital requirements only will be retained as cash by the Water Supply Division.
4/  The amounts shown for the Federal Government loans have been provided by the PWD Water Division.
August 16, 1968



ANNEX 11
MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SELANGOR STATE
PWD VWAThR SUPPLY D7TISION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 196B THROUGH 1974
(In '000 Malaysian Dollars)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                     1968     1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      197h
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash GeneratiDn
Net income before interest                  4,438     4,582     4,762     4,688     4,327     4,472     4,615
Depreciation                                 2,890    3,1141    3,350     3,415     3,932     L,01l     4,9)91
Total Cash Generation                  7,32b     7,723     d,112     6,103     .,309     6,513     0,70O
Increase in Accounts Payable                     75        80        87        93        99       108       116
Customers' Deposits                              200      100       100       1.00      100       100       100
State Government Participation                   -      3,000     2,000                  -         -
Borrowings
Federal Government loans for projects
under construction                          9,673     3,2)49   1,92.9       -         -         -         -
Proposed IBRD loan                            174     2,130 _      S097   2,90.       536        -
Total loans                             9,7      5,379                           536        -         -
TOTAL SOURCES                          17,150   16,282    17,32)4   11,201     9,104L    8,721     8,922
Application of Funds
Addition to Plant
Projects under construc!tion                6,250     7,100     1,400       100       _         _         _
Proposed project - foreign costs               160    1,970    1,710     2,3)45      135
- local costs                 160    2,3L47    6,218     3,230       210       -
Other imDrovements                          3,790     1,2b0     1,210       340     1L600     2,000     2,000
Total                                  10,360    12,657   13,536     6,015     l,9LI5    2,000     2,000
Interest                                      2,010     2,535     2,867     2,993     3,057     3,046     2,981
Amortization                                    393       473       552       593       817     1,065     1,131
Increase in inventories                          50       -50        50        50       100       100       100
Increase in accounts receivable                 588-      146       152        90       134       140       119
Total                                  -3,041     3,?04    3,621     3,726     4,10c     4,351     4,361
TOTAL .APPLICATIONS                   .1.3,401`-" _15,861-  17,159   9,741     6,053     6,351     6,361
Annual Surplus                                   -4,049-     421       165     1,160     2,991     2,370     2,561
Cumulative Snrplus   :                              1/       421       586     2,046     5,037     7,107     9,968
Times Annual Debt Service is c-overed-
by Cash Generation                                3.0      2.6       2.4       2.3       2.1       2.1       2.1
Note: 1/ The surplus.for-.1-96    ' h ot been .carried'o6rward as -'it will not be separated from general State funds
until the change ill the.ic5unting-system b-ecomes effective.
August 16, 1968



ANNEX 12
MAIAYSIA - KUAIA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SEIANGOR STATE
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.   Total water produced (treated). An increase in production has been
estimated at 3-1/2 per annum through 1971 and at 5% per annum thereafter.
2.   Unaccounted for water includes system losses, scouring of mains, fire-
fighting, etc.,1 and is taken at 15% of total water produced.
3.   The increase in population served has been assumed at 35,000 in 1968
and 1969; 40,0OO in 1970 and 1971; 45,000 in 1972 and 1973; and 50,000 in
1974.
4. The number of public standpipes is not expected to increase after 1971.
There are presently some 626 public standpipes in the Kuala Lumpur area,
which commencing 1972 would be gradually reduced.   However, the overall
number of public standpipes in the State would not change appreciably,
since government would continue to provide water through public fountains
in the outlying communities for some years to come. Commencing July 1,
1969, a charge of 100.50 per 1,000 gallons of water supplied through
public standpipes, has been assumed for the purpose of income statements.
5.   Power, chemicals and maintenance costs from 1968 have been estimated
to increase at 6% per annum, which is considered reasonable for Malaysia
at present.
6.   Wages and salaries.  Provision has been made for an increase in staff
in 196i. Wages and salaries are estimated to increase at 10% per annum,
commencing 1968. This takes into account expected increments in salaries
and increases in staff.
7.   Contingencies include an allowance of 40% of salaries and administration
to cover expenditures for overtime, retirement funds, hospitalization, bad
debts, etc.
8.   Depreciation is not provided for under the government accounting system.
In preparing the pro forma statements, 1962 through 1974, 2-1/2% per annum
notional depreciation on plant in service has been provided.
9.   Accounts receivable commencing 1968 have been estimated to represent
the equivalent of two months of the estimated water revenues.
10. Accounts payable have been estimated to represent the equivalent of
two months of the estimated operating costs, excluding depreciation.
11. The proposed Bank Loan of US$3.6 million (equivalent to 1$10.8 million)
would be made available to the Selangor State Public Works Department through
the State Government of Selangor for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of h years, at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per annum.



MAP I
8 \  B E R N A M                                   ULU SELANGOR .     I 
Under cons  ction    \
a                       X    A ~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~     ~~~~~~U aS  U  X
K. KU U BAHAR U  J
\  K U A L A    s                 ,     \<  2       / ULU SELANGOR SOUTH
Under construction
\ > ~S E L A IV G          O R .{ 
.\  t         ~~~~RANTAU PANJANG  J                      _ 
}; <r/ ~~~~~~~3.0 lMgd S                 ANGOR 
KUALA SELANGR C,       z     t     4                6
MALAYSIA                                        ....LANG GATES 
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY
: |       .         ER ~~~~~~SUPPLY   \ t , 
:1 -.   .........      to airport   le:   /A;N    NTA E      (
KUALA     LU    PR
AMPAN IMPOUNDING\
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                  OT UbOK >wpr LUMP tMIPURDNG
NORTH HUKO40KU                            .
5.0  IMgd     ........BUKCIT           NANAS 
*-- --... . DISTRICT  BOUNDARIES   -......'       B                      /      38.0  IMgd  PROPOSED  PROJECT
WATER\IORKS  CAPACITIES         .              ,DAMANSARA tg,U/ 
/NO~~~~~~~~~AM OCEAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~NO      L
JANUARY  S9B   1EE0- ISUR L                                                               6     lMgd
MILES                                   I ~5Pr S.ewetno o-. Unoer construction 
>              ) ., ., ............................................ '  **A*ANmG/
SOUTHEAST ASIA          STATES OF MALAYA   |,                 (1        BUKIT TAMPOI )   \
X Xcel . 8 A 4 H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               N    G   A   \T 2 )X g/2 1A
LAYSAG4O/
JANUARY 1968                                                                                                  IBRD- 2181R



MAP 2
L
ripj
JINJANG
F~~~~ -- - ,J                                
KEPONG J'
"   ''  '  ' T '   ""'                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAN OA
.'~~~~~~~~- C,_  T, |      ,,,,                 RERATED WA TEN     AND TREA TED wArE7
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                     6
KUALA ~ ~~               RIK EMIA
, wI2S>_ttt          'PU~SIMPI/C AIN  WER NDINAK     MALAYSIA
L U                                   KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY
," ,              g                  ~~~~~~S EL AN G OR  S TAT E
@                W                >~~~~~~~~~~~HZ~t  Existing water sources
CHERAS253f             ~~~~~Enisting distribution lines
7           \__=3~~~~~ Build-up areas
r
Is SERDANG .                                                  Existing trans-mains
I   -oIHARU
-~ ~~I                                                               Miles
PETALING JAYA                                                                '-'
DECBMBBR 1967                                                                             IBRD -2lS2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



