RESTRICTED
FILE     C   PY            Report No. P - 77 1 
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAPORE LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
January 6, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BAEE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME1T
REPORT AND RECOIflENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIR.ECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE DEVELOPMEN-T BANK OF SINGAPORE LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.0 million to The Develop-
ment Bank of Singapore Limited (DBS), to be guaranteed by the Republic of Singa-
pore.
2.         During 1965 and 1966 the Government discussed with the Bank Group
the proposed establishment of a private development finance company to take
over the long-term financing fuictions of the Government's Economic Development
Board. At that time, however, industrialization had been delayed by the confront-
ation with Indonesia and separation from Malaysia. There were therefore doubts
as to the viability of a private development finance company. However, in 1968
the Government decided that the time was ripe, and DBS was established with tech-
nical assistance from Kreditanstalt f'ur Wiederaufbau. The Government owns 49%
of the shares, and private investors, 51%. It commenced operations on September
1, 1968. The Bank economic mission in 1968 confirmed the vital role of further
industrialization in promoting economic growth and employment, the increasing
need for long-term risk capital and the soundness of Singapore's industrial
policy. Subsequently, the Government approached the Bank for a loan to DBS and
the project was appraised in November, 1968. The appraisal indicated that DBS
would need the funds about a year later, and the project was reappraised in
August, 1969.
3.         Negotiations took place between December 15 and 18.  Mr. Dhanabalan,
Vice President of the DBS, represented the Borrower, and Mr. Lim Kim Kuay,
Counsellor, Embassy of Singapore, represented the Singapore Government.
4.         The proposed loan would supplement the resources of DBS in providing
finance to privately controlled productive enterprises in Singapore. It would be
the tenth to be made in Singapore; one loan was guaranteed by the United Kingdom
when Singapore was still a U.K. dependency and one by Malaysia, when Singapore
was part of Malaysia. The following is a statement of Bank loans to Singapore
on December 31, 1969.



-2-
Amount
Loan No.  Year       Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
TUS$ million)
337-SI/l  1963    State of~ Singapore   Electric Power     14.4
405-MA2/  1965    Public Utilities      Water Supply        6.8       -
Board
462-SI    1966    Port of Singapore     Port Expansion     15.0     12.8
Authority
473-SI    1966    Public Utilities      Electric Power      9.5       -
Board
503-SI    1967    Public Utilities      Electric Power     23.0      7.5
Board                 and Water
513-SI    1967    Singapore Telephone   Telephone           3.0       -
Board                 Services
547-SI    1968    Republic of Singapore Sewerage           6.0       5.3
595-SI    1969    Public Utilities      Electric Power     20.5     20.2
Board
647-SI    1969    Singapore Telephone   Telephone          11.0     11.03/
Board                 Services
Total (less cancellations)                     109.2
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                             2.8
Total now outstanding                          106.4
Amount sold                      4.7
of which has been repaid       0.3             11 4
Total now held by Bank                          102.0
Total undisbursed                                         57.4
1/   Guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
7/   Guaranteed by lNalaysia.
3/   Not yet effective.
5.          The execution of projects financed under Bank loans to Singapore
and the rate of disbursement of these loans have been satisfactory, except for
Loan 462-SI (Port Expansion) where unforeseen difficulties with land re-
clamation have delayed construction of the container-ship berths and of the
container terminal. The container terminal is now expected to be opened to
traffic by October, 1972 with parts in operation by i4arch, 1971. A loan for
el'ectric power generation is schcduled to be presented to the Executive Directors
before the end of the current fiscal year. Future Bank lending is contemplated
for industry, technical education, transport and public utilities.



- 3 -
6.          Singapore became a member of the IFC on September 4, 1968.   So far
no projects have been put to IFC.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.          Borrower:            The Development Bank of Singapore Limited.
Guarantor:           The Republic of Singapore.
Amount:             Various currencies equivalent to
US$5.o million.
Purpose:            To supplement the resources of DBS in providing
finance to privately controlled productive enter-
prises in Singapore.
Amortization:       The initial amortization schedule provides for
repayment over 15 years, in 30 semi-annual install-
ments beginning September 1, 1971, and ending
March 1, 1986. It will be amended from-'time to
time to conform substantially to the aggregate
of the schedules of sub-loans and investments
financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
Interest Rate:      7% per annum.
Commitment Charge:  3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.          A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of Development Bank of Singapore Ltd".
(DB-55a) dated December 29, 1969.
9.          The proposed loan to DBS will contribute towards Singapore's indus-
trialization. Entrepot trade - Singapore's traditional activity - is unlikely
to grow in the future at a pace sufficient to give adequate eLIp'ioyment and
income to the growing and relatively well-educated population. F'ollowing a UN
Industrial Survey mission in 1961, the Government adopted a policy of industrial-
ization and in 1961 established the Economic Development Board with responsibilities
for all aspects of industrial promotion and finance, industrial 'estates, and other
infrastructure. This has been a successful institution, offering assistance in
establishing new industries.  Particularly since Singap6rets separtion from ialaysia
in 1965, the Government has recognized that manufacturing firms large enough to ben-
efit from 6conomies of scale iwould'need to be strongly export-oriented, and it has
been successful in attracting into Singapore foreign'manufacturers with established
foreign narkets.



- 4 -
10.        DBS was established in 1968 to take over the financing function
of the Economic Development Board and is now the main institutional source of
long-term industrial finance in Singapore which it offers in the form of loans
and equity participations. DBS also provides guarantees, underwriting services,
real estate finance and commercial banking facilities, primarily to supplement
rather than to compete with services provided by other financial institutions.
Its issued share capital amounts to S$100 million (US$32.7 million), of which
the Government holds 49%, while 33% is held by commercial banks, insurance com-
panies and other financial institutions, and 18% by other companies and members
of the public. In addition, DBS has received Government loans totaling S$125
million and a US$10 million loan from the Asian Development Bank.   Though the
Government is DBS' major shareholder and an important creditor, DBS enjoys strong
independent management and decision-making autonomy. The Government has clearly
evidenced its desire to allow DBS to be run on an efficient and commercial basis.
11.        The foreign exchange risk was a major problem for DBS in consider-
ing the proposed loan, as the Singapore dollar is freely convertible and the
strong preference of the business commlnity is to borrow local currency and to
purchase with this currency foreign exchange as required for imports, thus
incurring no foreign exchange risk. The Government has now agreed to assume the
risk for a fee of 1/4% per annum on the full amount of the loan less repayment.
12.        The recent and substantial acceleration of industrialization in
Singapore and the limited experience of DBS makes forecasting DBS' future lend-
ing operations difficult. However, for the next two years DBS expects its
long-term loan and equity approvals to total S$250.0 million. For these next
two years, DBS has obtained from the Asian Development Bank and hopes to obtain
from Kreditanstalt f'ur Wiederaufbau loans which, together with the proposed
Bank loan, would amount to about S$55.0 million equivalent. Repayments and
retained earnings are forecast at S$30.0 million during this per-od. If these
expectations prove correct, there would be left a gap of about S$165.0 million,
which DBS expects to fill from Government loans and the local capital market.
Although these projections would justify a larger Bank loan, DBS prefers at
this time to borrow only US$5.0 million as this is its first experience in
using Bank funds, and it is reluctant to borrow more funds than it can be sure
of using in the near future. The project gives the Bank an association with
Singapore's industrialization policy, which is at the heart of its strategy for
future economic development, and DBS expects to approach the Bank for a second
and larger loan in due course.
13.        DBS is a well-managed company with efficient staff.   Its loan and
equity portfolio is generally sound. The 3:1 debt-equity limitation, contained
in the Loan Agreement, is prudent and reasonable to begin with and is not
expected to restrain DBS' operations till 1972. The portfolio is projected to
increase almost five times from the end of 1969 to the end of 1973, and to
finance this, long-term debt would also increase rapidly. When it should become
necessary for DBS' further expansion, the Bank would consider on its merit an
appropriate increase in the debt:equity ratio, taking into account the quality
of DBS' assets and its financial prospects at that time.



- 5 -
14.        DBS has recently raised its interest rates to 9% on ordinary loans
and 7½2 on loans with convertibility rights; these charges are about in line
with market rates in Singapore. Although DBS has fairly low operating costs,
its return on equity during the initial years will remain relatively low
because of the narrow spread on borrowed funds and low leverage; net profit
after tax is projected at 4-6% of share capital during 1970-1973. DBS expects
to pay a 3% dividend as from 1971.   Projections show that debt service is covered
about 1.3 times. General reserves and retained earnings are expected to increaae
gradually, reaching about 5% of DBS' long-term portfolio in 1973.
15.        The proposed loan would incorporate terms and conditions similar to
those of recent Bank loans to development finance companies.   The free limit
for individual sub-projects is proposed to be US$150,000, with an aggregate limit
of US$1.25 million.
PART IV - LEGAL ENSTRUHENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Development Bank
of Singapore, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Singapore
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are in the usual form used for loans to
development finance companies.
PLRT V - THE ECONOMY
17.        Recent economic developments were summarized in my Report (P-759)
dated December 4, 1969, presenting to the Executive Directors Loan 647-SI
(Second Telecommunications Project). As I stated there, GDP grew by 13% in
1968 and has probably expanded at about the same rate in 196?, compared with
an average rate of 7% during the first half of the sixties. This rapid growth
was achieved by record foreign trade and shipping activity, a rapid expansion
of industrial manufacturing and a large inflow of tourists. Saving reached
about 17%, and public and private investment about 16.7% of GDP in 1968 compared
with an average 13.9% in the preceding three years.
18.        Current account deficits narrowed from roughly US$70 million in
1965 to US$35 million in 1967. In 1968 there was a small surplus. Large
inflows of private long-term and short-term capital - the former attracted by
the opportunities for industrial investment - reinforced an already strong
reserve position. External reserves increased to US$766 million by the end of
March 1969, equivalent to about 10 months of retained imports. Singapore
needs high resources as it is particularly exposed to external forces and
events.
19.        Singapore is making striking progress in transforming a commercial
society into an industrial one. The value of industrial output doubled
between 1965 and 1968, of which about one-third was exported. The newly



- 6 -
established industries are producing largely for the markets of industrialized
countries and a sustained expanision in production and exports is expected. As
stated above, the proposed loan will help finance this development.
20.        Prospects for industrial manufacturing have reduced considerably
the threat of a serious setback to the economy as a result of the plannled with-
drawal of the British forces. A 5% GNP growth rate even at the low point of the
adjustment period now appears feasible. A small rise in unemployment is expected
to occur in 1971-1972, and public finance and balance of payments strains are
expected in the early 1970's, due to the loss of foreign exchange from the British
withdrawal and to a leveling off of entrepot trade, while retained imports (mainly
for industrial development) may continue to grow at about the preserit rate of 7,.
Singapore will therefore require external aid, including Bank loans, during the
years immediately ahead.   Singapore is creditworthy for additional borrowing from
the Bank.  The present debt service ratio in relation to domestic and net entrepot
exports is about 0.5%.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMIIT
21.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOivPMENDATION
22.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. MicIamara
President
Washington, D. C.
January 6, 1970



