PW - -. ' '  tt U  ZM/fl.\ l'lF. Q   I  Y 
A blsD1^  tt? ffR E ST R IC TE D
Report No.  DB-55a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibHftv fnr its ntrorv n r rnmnpltenes  The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
TMTVPMATT(hNAT&L BANK PC)R RECONSTRUCITION AND DTlVP.T.CPMVNT
INTPRNATTCONAT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCTATION
APPRAISAL OF
DEVELOPMENT BANKC OF SINGAPORE LTD.
December 29, 1969
Development Finance Companies Department



Currency Equivalents
3$ 1           US$ C).327
US$ 1          ,S$ 3.06
S$ 1 million = US$327,000



APPRAISAL OF
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAPORE LTD.
CONTENTS
Page         Paragrc+h
SUTPINARY                                 i  -   ii      i   - vi.i
I.        2ITRODUCTION                               1  -   2      1   -    2
II.       ENVEIRONMENT                              1   -   5      3   -   21
Recent Economic Growth                  2              4
Industrial Expansion                    2  -           5   -    8
Industrial Finance                      2  -   9      9    -   21
III.      ESTABLISHIDENT OF DBS                     5   -   9     22   -   38
Formation                               5             22   -   24
Scope of Operations                     5  -   6      25   -   26
Ownership                               6  -   7     27    -   30
Board of. Directors                     7             31
Executive Committee                     7 -    8      32   -   33
MlaInagement and Staff                  .8 -        ,  3)  =   3
vT.      RESOURCES ldrID PFOOR`TFOLIO              -l    1 1     39l       P G
Resources                               9 -           39   -   4
Loan Portfolio taken over
from 7B                              10  - 11       42   -   46
Undisbursed EDB Commitments            11             47
EDBis Equity Portfolio                 11             48
V.        POLICIES AhD PROCEDuRES                  12   - i4      49   -   58
Policies                               12  - 13       49       53
Procedures                             13  -  1       5    -   58
VI.       DBS'S OPERATIONS                          l   -  18     59   -   67
Summary of Operations                  14             59   -   60
Long-term Lending Operations           15  -  16      61
Light lndustries Loans                 16             62
Equity Investments                     17            63
Conmercial Banlcing Operations         17             6L
Guarantees                             17            65
Underwriting Activities                17            66
Real Estate Operations                 17  -  18      67



Page          Paragraph
VII.      FIqANCIAL RESULTS AND POSITION             18  -  20     68    -  7)4
]3alance Sheets                         18             68   -  69
Profit and Loss Accounts                19             70
TCaxation                               19             71
Rleserves Policy                        19             72      73
Audit                                   20             74
VIII.     FU'URE OPERATIONS                          20  -  25     75    -  93
General Investment Outlook              20             75
]3usiness Forecasts                    20  -  23      76   -  83
;Foreign Exchaige Risk                  23            8)4
]'rojected Profitability                23             85      87
J)ebt Service Coverage                  24             88
P'rojected Balance Sheets               2h             89   _  9].
TV        r'(L'T TTcO Tf(\T. 2O                          -  25     92    -9
This report is based on thle findinLgs
of a mission to Singapore in August 1969
by Messrs. D. Gustafson and E.5dgar Su.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   .Economic Development Board
1A.  'Financial Assistance Granted by the Economic
Development Board
2.     List of 3areholders by Sectors as of June 30, 1969
3.    Board of ELirectors, June 30. 1969
4.    Organization Chart, zJuly 31, 1969
5.   fLoans Assumed by DBS at September 1, 1968
6.   'Loans in Arrears as of June 30, 1969
7.    lndisbursed Loan Commitments Assumnd bea  DB)S
as of September 1, 1968
8.    Policv Statement
9.     DBS's Cperations, September 1, 1968 - June 30, 1969
10.   31assification of TndustrilT Loans Approved Septemrber 1,
1968 to June 30, 1969 by Industrial Category, Period
and Size
11.   Equity Investments as of June 30, 1969
12.   Balance Sheets, December 31,196   and Juurn 30, 1969
13.   Profit & Loss Accounts, July 16 - December 31, 1968
and January 1   J Junre 30, 1969
14.   Projected Statements of Income, 1969 - 1973
P-rojected Balnce Sheets, December 31, 1969-1973
16.     -..h Flow Fmrecast, 1969 - 1973
17.    .W    on C.sh Flow  'rojections



S UTYMlARY
(i)     The Development Bank of' Singapore Limited (DbS) was incorporated in
July 1968. It has a wide scope of operations including commercial property
de-velopment and some commercial banking activity but it primarily provides
finance by way of long- and medium-term loans, equity participations or
guarantees to manufacturing and other industries in Singapore.   It took over
the financing functions of the Economic Development Board (EDB) and assuned
the Boardis loan portfolio.  Its issued share capital amounts to s$ Io0
million, of which 49% is held by the Government, 33g by local and fo-reign
financial institutions and 18% by private companies and individuals.   DBS,'s
share capital is supplemented by Government loans totalling S$ 125 million
and a loan of US$ 10 million from the Asian Development Bank. The
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau provided technical assistance in the establish-
ment phase of DBS.
(ii)    Singapore's manufacturing sector has been expanding at a rapid riate
during the 1960's. Manufacturing output tripled between 1961 and 1968 and
future growth of the Singapore economy depends to a great extent on continued
growth of the export-oriented manuacturing sector. DBS was established with
the expectation that it would have a vital role in financing this anticipated
growth.
(iii)   DBS has a Board of twelve Directors, of which six represent the
Government, three represent local banks and three represent foreign banks.
The Chairman and President is Mr. Hon Sui Sen. The Executive Committee has
four members including the Chairman, a Government representative, a foreign
banker and an industrialist.  DRq is well-organized and the staff. whiTh
mostly young and therefore somewhat inexperienced, are competent and hard-
working.  In+trnril procedures are thorough and the work flow is efficient.
Project appraisals are reasonably good, although some lack of engineering
analysis is nntAceabh1eP The PvPec11'irt.  flnmMit+  has exercised igidiart-
ment in the investment decisions.  DBS operates as an autonomous corporation
andl its. dec:isions a-ro based onA  -o11rlaswl    as economi^ criteria.
(iv)  Apcxi fro.l tshag porqforio transferred from 'B, DBS has collgitlitted. 4tS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 rnsP --A4-- nnnn0 , s  om41e,1 4
1  ~   ~  - I. 'JlL  I4J~  ~JJ.L VU.JLL'.%J  LI  1I4V   . L  ..±IVIIL  JLWIJ.l~  W1,1i l  , ~U1,UiL. LI LJL  4. L  D
resources rapidly since it started operations. DBS's approvals during the
period SepW-ue r 'I to DeIJ-ce.nbLter 31, lg6 -I n4 o-_;|^A Zo&- 3,2.1.llin  T- the
~.  dLa       .            _LL J   LI JJ,  ±71-Jv   mou Vt dIL L A~.  LUo  JW  2)  * ILL-LL.LU11.  ±-11 uJle
first half of 1969) its approvals amounted to 3$ 49 million and in the
seco   hal  itCLA.J.  is Lo t  to;_,,VU%;kJVU  aUppr-VVU aUUtrLalU_ Projects alriuwbin Ug Lto -,$
million.  Consequently, DBS's original resources consisting of its equity
and Go--,Ove rnMent loans w1ll be mlore than fully ear marked for use by the etnd
of 1969. The portfolio inherited from EDB is basically sound. The proJects
app roved by DnB ar_  er       wl  div     e   m n _g_n _u s r . I  l .  sts
i6ypruviDd by UDD are gerwrally well aiversliieai among inaus-Griai sectors.



(v)     For the next two years, DBS will need approximately S$ 250 million to
-tr its lonC%.  o     lar. &nd equivy C VpparovLoo .Jn adIJIna Ld.LJ1on  woUrkin  cap1LA
credits wil'L be finanoed out of term deposits that DBS hopes to secure. It
has obaLe4d a LoarL of MU$ 10 ML!U±±ULM-. firJom tLhe Ist_cU1  VeJ.Up11t7I1U JdilN nL and
hopes to negotiate a loan of about US$ 2.5 million with Kreditanstalt fur
VViedeCraCL-LU& in1 theR± r.&L few ITlonRbLbS. Internal cash generation for -O   litU
two years will total about S$ 30 million.  The Government is expected to
pro-vide additional lines oI credit, but DBBS is also consiaering ways of rais-
ing additional funds from the market to help fill the resource gap in the
next two years.  DBS has applied -for a Bank loan of US$ 5 million for
financing the private manufacturing sector.
(vi)    DBS will have low operating costs but because of rather narrow spreads
it will not be very profitable, in terms of return on equity, for the next
few years. DBS pointed this fact out in its prospectus and stated that the
primary objective of DBS was development of sound projects, not a high return
on equity. Nevertheless, the private sector has strongly supported DBS and
invested heavily in it. DBS has recently revised its interest rates upward
and its charges are now in line with market rates in Singapore.
(vii)   DBS is a well managed and dynamic company with an important role in
Singapore. It is a suitable borrower for the recommended US$ 5 million loan,
to bo used for imported goods ard servicos. This loan should follow the
terms applied zenerally to loans to development finance - companies, including
payment of the standard coirn±tment fee. The borrowing limit should be set on
the basis that debt iwith an original maturity of one yoar or longer should
not exceed three times not worth. It is recormnded that the free limit be
set at US$ 150,000, with a limit of $1,2500,OCO on the aggregate amount which
may be used for projects below that limit. On this basis the great bulk of
the loan wi.l come to the Bank in the form of su-projects requiring the
Bank's prior approval.



A TWrr AISAL AT v'F
Th1rflr'T .n~AlAhT  A AfT?  [Vl  0rTT~T'AflI'f TIA   Th
LizvUn hi,u r r OF r SiNGLEmUGAE LTD.
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     In 1967 the Government of Singapore undertook consideration of a number
of organiz.ational measures to facilitate industrial growtvh in thse country.
One of these was the establishment of a long-term financing institution.  In
early 1968, a 49% Government-owned development finance company, the Develop-
ment Bank of Singapore (DBS) was established. A Bank economic mission in
1968 confirmed the vital need of further industrialization for Singapor-e's
future economic growth and it became clear that the new development bank
would have a key role in this growth.
2.     In view of this, the Bank informed the Government in June 1968 that
it would explore the possibility of the Bank Group's financial assistance
to DBS. In August the Government indicated that IBRD association with the
DBS would be welcome and useful. DBS was relying on Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufb)au (KfW) for general technical assistance in setting up the new
bank and DBS commenced operations on September 1, 1968. Subsequently,
Mr. Hon Sui Sen, President of DBS requested a $10 million line of credit
from the Bank to help meet part of DBS's capital and foreign exchange
requiremenits, and in this connection a mission visited DBS August 4-17, 1969.
DBS then diecided to cut its request for a line of credit in half, in view
of the cormmitment fee on the loan and DBS's uncertainty about the willLngness
of SiingnnlOrn enterprises to negotiate loans involving foreign or international
financial institutions.
II. THE ENVIRONIENT
3.     Since its founding in the early part of the 19th century, Singapore
has become the prin-cipal entrepot and commercial center serving the colntries
of Southeast Asia. This is attributable to a combination of factors:   a
favorable geographic location, a fine natur-al harbor with excellent nort
facilities, a free trade policy, the existence of a large and cosmopolitan
mercha.nt cormmunity as welill as the existen…ce of effi…ient essential ancillary
services such as banking, insurance and communication. However, with the
rap increase i  p 'at40on the trad it-     er.trepot trade- alone e-o  ld no
longer support rapid economic growth nor absorb the increasing number of
workers entering the labor market and in 1961 Singapore embarked on an
aggressive program for industrialization. With no significant local market
and no raw material resources, Singapore has of necessity begu,n to focus
on export-oriented industries.  The need to rapidly expand new industries
has been heightened by thte accelerated withdrawal of the British defense
establishment in Singapore, the impact of which in the past accounted for
about i5%, of GNe.



-2-
Recent Economic Growth
4.   Between 1960 and 1967, Gross Domestic Product increased on average
about 9% annually. Si`nce 1966, the first year of Singapore's lndeoendence,
when the entrepot trade with Indonesia was resumed, the economy has been in
a boomn situation.  In 1966 and 1967 the growrin rate of the econo.,u in real
terms reached 11%, and in 1968 it further advanced to 13%. The rate of growth
was well above the average planned target of 7% per arn-num and the a-vrage
annual increase of 6.6% experienced in the First Development Plan period,
19%61-1965. The major factors contr-ibuting to this growth were a rapid increase
in entrepot trade, a surge of domestic exports, a sharp increase in tourists,
and a sizeable increase in private investments in manufacturing industries,
shipbuilding, ship repair and hotel construction.
Industrial Expansion
5.   Since the First Development Plan was launched in 1961, Singapore has made
remarkable progress on a vigorous industrialization program. Manufacturing
output of firms employing 10 or more workers increased from S$ 518.4 million
in 1961 to 5$ 1,687.2 million in 1968. About 1/3 of this output is exported.
Manufacturing value added in the sector as a whole rose from 8.1% of GDP in
1961 to 12.1L% in 1968.
6.   Fixed investment in the manufacturing sector (firms employing more than
10 Dersons) increased from about S$ 30 million a year in 1960 and 1961 tc over
S$ 100 million in 1967 and seems to have risen sharply in 1968 to a record
level of over S$ 150 million.
7.   Singapore is ranidlv building a reputation as an ideal place in Nsiea for
export-oriented industries in the Hongkong tradition.   Singapore is valued by
foreign invsestors for its political stability, readily trainable labor,
excellent supportincg services, a stable currency, relative freedom from red
tape that plagues other coulntri es in the area competing for investments.and
generous financial incentives. Available incentives include 5-year tax
holidays for pioneer industries, n7ite liberally given; a low tax rate (tck)
on profits on exports for a minimum period of 15 years, accelerated deprecia-
tion (up to lO%), douible deduction on advertising exnenses, duty-free import
of equipment and raw materials, in some cases tariff protection, financial
assist ance and technical services provi  bhv EPRD and free ren ntriation of
profits and capital,
8.   Although the growth record of the manufacturing sector has been impressive,
4.1-   4rIg 4     ~     -44-,.4-an,,+hannc+ nr4nrmDnp _- J: not. in-
he suurong feeling Ln Singapore 13 that    n  -h past perfon-ance is n
dicative of future developments.  Much greater accomplishments are expected.
Industrial Finance
9.   EDB.  The Economic Development Board, a Government agency which has had
overall resconsibiiity for designing and administering all asuectus of
Singapore's industrialization program, was the principal institutional sDurce
of long-term industrial finance in Singapore before DBS was established,
although the stock market has also been Dlaying an increasingly significant
role in channeling new equity finance to industries and the commerclal ban'ks
have financed the acquisition of fixed assets by rolling over short-term
facilities and on occasion by extending term loans.



-3-
10.  In its seven years of operation (1962-1968), EDB made 308 loans totalling
S$ 94 million, and 30 equity investments totalling S$ 41 million. The sectors
which received the largest share of EDB's financing (in the form of loans and
equity participations) are shipbuilding and hotels, 19% each of the total.
Food and textile industries received 12; each, metal and enzineering 11% and
the other industrial classifications received less than 10% of EDBTs financing.
EDB cheaged 7% for industrial loans and 8-1/2% for hire-nurchase and working
capital loans extended to small industries via the commercial banks. EDB also
granted guarantees for deferred pavment in resnect of plant, machinery and
equipment.  Mlore details on EDB's financial activities are given in Annex 1.
1 1. When DBE commrenced operations in September, 1968, EDB's financing fLunc-
tions were discontinued.   As a resul t Dn5S hecame the principal source of ned-
and long-term financing for the private sector in Singapore.
12. Stock Exchange. The Stock Exchange serves both Singapore and PMalaysia.
The nl-m1,er of' ComPanies 1s+sd on the E+Chrhig_e totalled 226 as of June 30, 19629
compared with 210 at the end of 1968. This total includes 96 industrial firns,
23 hotels and property companles, 57 rubber comp anies, 45 tin companies a.d
5 palm oil companies.  The turnover of shares on the Stock Exchange for th.*.e
I,rs+ h  fP04 o  I± was -76.1-  "l±ion un.Lus karket val. S$P 5'74 ri.Ulion) 1 /O
higher than in 1968 and 114% higher than in 1967, on an annual basis.   Vigorous
speculative acti-vity  as been mairuy responsible for the e.panded uurnoverL
1 k  Prices of all shares except rubber dropped during the first half of 1965.
The riots on M4ay 13, 1969 in Malaysia caused the sharpest decline in several
years. From January 1 to June 30, 1969, the average pDrice for industrials
declined 6% (properties shares declined 23%, tin shares maintained the same
level, hotel shares declined 15- and rubber shares increased about 5%). The
average dividend yield on shares of dividend-paying industrial firms is aronnd
6% and that of bank shares 6.5%.
14.  During the first half of 1969, 18 new issues for S$ 127 million were
floated, all over-subscribed, compared to 20 new issues totalling S$ 337
million in the entire year of 1968.   After the set-back in May, the market; is
becoming bul:Lish again. As noted, the market is speculative.    New shares are
regularly soLd at significant premiums within a short period after issue, and
for the newer firms, share prices do not reflect the earnings potentials of
the companies.
15. Commercial Banks. There are now 35 commercial banks operating in
Singapore; these include 10 banks incorporated in Sirngapore, 4 in Malaysia and
21 foreign banks. The commercial banks are the main source of working capital
for industries and while a few term loans are made to old clients, these banks
do not generally provide long-term credits as such to industry although they
have in effect provided such funds by rolling over short-term loans. Deposits
with the banks increased from S$ 1,137.2 million at the end of 1964 to
S$ 2,309.7 million at the end of 1968, and loans and advances increased f:rom
S$ 1,126 million to 5$ 1,942 million during the same period.



i6. Interest rates were raised gererally ln Singapore after the sharp increase
in London and other foreign financial centers following the November 1967
sterling devaluation.  The pra-ime rate now is 8% * The minimum  (preferential)
rate on advarnces to Government and public authorities is 7-1/2%.  Interest
rates on overdrafts range from the prime rate to more typical rates of bett'ieen!
9% and 11%, and the rates on 8-day call loans range between 5% and 5-3/4%.    To
encourage savings, the Ministry of Finance urged banks to raise thelr savings
deposit rates and relatively low 2-1/2% rate for 1-month fixed deposits. The
rate has been raised to 3% but the deposits have to maintain a minimur., level of
S$ 25,000. The banks are paying 5-1/2% on 3-month deposits, 5-3/4% on 6-month
deposits and 6% on deposits for 9-12 months, with no minimum levels specified.
With effect f'rom Nay 1, 1968, the maximum rate of interest payable by banks on
savings deposits wras raised from 3% to 3-1/2% per annum, and the savings depositf,
rate at the Post Office Savings Bank was raised from 3% to 4% per annum.    The
slightly higher rate for the latter was necessary so that it could compete more
effectively Trith commercial banks and check the decline of its deposits.
17. During the past two years the commercial banks have been fairly liquid.
At the end of 1968, the overall loans/deposits ratio of the 10 SingaDore
registered banks was as low as 48%, although that of all banks was much higher,
at 84%. Since inter-bank borrowings are common and the foreign banks can also
draw on finance from their offices overseas, the banks which are not very
liquid seem to face no difficulties in improving their liquidity position when
the need arises. In view of the fairly high liquidity of the banking system,
well established firms have heavily relied on rolling over their overdrafts
from the banks to finance their medium- or even long-term requirements.
18. The conmrercial banks' loans and advances to the manufacturing sector
increased sharply during the past six years. During 1963 such loans and
advances tot.aled S$ 83.5 mil lion representing 10%/ of commercial banks, totcl
lending. In L968 the amount outstanding increased to S$ 360 million represent-
inng approxi-mately 27,' of their total loans.
19. Finance Companies      _ Many f'inance companies have been established in
Singapore during the past decade, most being subsidiaries of commercial bancs.
They col-lect fixed deposits from the- public at a higher deposit rate than the
commercial banks, usually at least 1% higher. Effective lending rates range
rom  2 /o -2   Al ' though their main business is consumer durable financing  at
times they make loans to manufacturing concerns against mortgages on buildings
and properties.  Some of the finance ce                     in stock exchange,
land and property speculation.   As of the end of 1968, the total assets of the
finance com-panies operating in Singapore reached S$ 1431 rillion, corresponding
to about 12% of the total assets of the commercial banks. A new Finance
Companies Act which came Into effect in January, 1968 provides for licensing
and regulation of such companies.
20.  Insurance Companies.   Singapore has 12 locally incorporated insurance
companies among a total of 88 companies registered for operation. The invest-
ment of insurance funds is mainly in industrial shares (which have trustee
status) and secondarily in government securities.   The ins urance companies
provide limited credit for customers to build houses and for other purposes;
such credits represent less than 20% of the statutory funds.   The insuranze
companies are also a source of funds for comrercial real estate ventures.
Government regulations require life insurance companies to invest at least 75,-



fthir 11-Lva-liti,es in Singapore (5d in approvred assets in qlirngapre and 20,:
in Singapore Government securities). General insurance companies have to
ir.  t at, -least tv2 ofheir lVliabi.LL4;es in SingarV      -n approved assets
and 15% in Goverrment securities).   Approved assets include shares and deben-
tu-res of Singapue- re istered cornpan:Les quoted on the 3tock Exchange.
21.  Generally speaklng, Singapore has relatively well developed and efficient
financial institutions and financial services. The present strength and con-
vertibility cf its currency are important factors in -the soundrness and stage of
development cf the banking system.
!II1. ESTlABLISJHMtNT OF DBS
Formation
22. In order efficiently to accelerate its industrialization program the
Government considered it necessary that some of the functions of EDB, which
had become a very large and multi-purpose agency, be spun off and taken over by
other specialized agencies. Consequently, EDB's industrial estates operations
were taken ovrer by the Jurong Town Corporation, a statutory corporation3 its
trade promotion work was taken over by a commercial firm with Gover.rnent
support, INTRACO; the light industries training center was truned over to the
Ministry of Education; and, as already mentioned, EDB's financing activity was
given to DBS.. EDB retains its industrial promotional functions and continues
to act as a coordinating body for investors seeking assistance.
23. The DBS was incorporated as a public limited company under the Companies
Act (1967) on July 16, 1968 and obtained a license to operate as a bank under
the Banking Ordinance on August 1, 1968. Business commenced on September 1,
1968. On the sane date, EDB ieased to nronvide finance to industries and trans-
ferred most of its e-isting portfolio an-! some of its staff to BBS.
2l,. The basic concents concerning the capital structure   and scope of activi-
ties of the institution were completely develoeped by the Singaporeans. How-
ever- after its formationn the KreditAnstnlt fur Wiederauhbau of Germany was
invited to advise DBS on general matters including organization, policies
and procedur,es and a m ssion. from Grermany vicsited DBS in OctOber 1968 to
carry this out.
Sco2e of Operations
25. W4hile DBS is primarily oriented toward providing long-term finance to
privale industry in the form of loans and eqity participations, its scope
of operations is much broader.   Apart from industrial term lending and invest-
ing in shares, DBS is becomi.ng invol v-ed in the following:
(a) cormiercial banking operations including making short-term
loans, opening letters of credit and accepting demand and
fixed-term deposits;
(b) underwriting debenture or share issues;



- 6 -
(c) guarantee business including export credit guarantees and
export credit insurance;
(d) financing projects of sectors other than industrial, such as
tourist schemes, real estate development connected with Singapore's
urban renewal program, projects related to the conversion of the
British military bases, fishing projects and projects for providing
facilities and services to the oil-drilling firms operating in
Southeast Asia.
26. The prinmary purpose of DBS in taking on such additional tasks is to supp2e-
ment the servrices which are inadequately provided by the existing financial
institutions, rather than operating as a competitor to these institutions.
However, it i.s clear, and the banks recognize this, that there will be an
element of competition between DBS and other financial institutions. This in
itself is probably constructive provided DBS does not use its power to enter
deeply into the fields now adequately served by the private banks. Generally,
the banks welcome DBS and feel that they will have enough influence to establish
reasonable working relationship with it.
Ownership
27.      DBS's authorized capital amounts to S$ 200,000,000 of which
S$loo,nor)0,nn) (par     r-ef  1 each) has been. issuen d and fllrl nnirh up.
The Government of Singapore subscribed 49,000,002 shares first and the rerlain-
;ng  1,000,000 shaares were o  red - for4      u tio .               7 * In
- '-e  , -  Ivv  -"- ,  . r  e  eEX  A_ fL  o V1-   @u, "k   c1- Vip  V i; ow .s i;- VWV Wo Q,  a 
October 1968, DBS invited commercial. banks, insurance companies and other
financial ins,itUtiOnS operating in Singapore to subscribed for 25,n000,000
shares. The issue was considerably over-subscribed.
28. In November, a further 26,000,000 shares were offered to the public, of
w` shares were reserved L.or fre.Lign  l_na.Lual insl        notU LqJU
operating in Singapore. The portion for the investing public in Singapore
was over-subscribea, but onily I,890,000 shares of t-le 7,000,000 shares resuerved
for foreign financial institutions have been sold to nine European banks.   The
unsold portion has since been taken up by local investors. In making the issue
to the investing public, DBS pointecl out in its prospectus that the main pur-
pose of the bank was to foster development and not to maxirmize profits. W:h;i Le
most of the financial institutions subscribed for DBSTs shares as an indication
of support for the Government development efforts, the investing public s
motives varied.  Some, especially the industrial firms, would like to establish
their relationship with the development bank from which they may seek support in
the future. Many no doubt invested thinking in terms of a capital gain,
wnile others may feel that investment in DBS will have advantages of safety
of principal. and stability of income.
29. The entire issued capital is now paid-in. A list of DBS's shareholders
as of June 30, 1969, is shown in Annex 2. The Government of Singapore ouns
49% of the shares issued; eleven Singapore banks own 12%, twenty foreign
banks operating in Singapore 12%, twenty-six insurance companies 7%, nine
European financial institutions not operating in Singapore 2%, and private
companies arLd individuals, about 7,000 in number, hold.  the remaining 1.8%.
The shares are listed on the Stock Exchange and like other new issues DBS
shares have been very speculative, the highest price of S$ 2.30 per share



-7-
was reached 1n April :L969 and the quotation since then has ranged from 5$ 1L.60
to s$ 2.00 per share. The turnover has been between individuals holding shares;
there is little turnover in DBS shares held by financial institutlons and
private companies.
30.  Since the Government holds 49% of the shares of DBS, it is the dominant
shareholder. Nevertheless, as DBS has a large number of private sharehold,rs
(including alL the major financial institutions operating in Singapore), who
hold 51% of its shares, this bloc will no doubt be a restraint on actions
that might be proposed by the Government that would conflict with the interest
of non-government shareholders. The widespread ownershlp reflects the general
confidence of the private sector in Singapore in the Government's stated desire
to allow DBS to be run on an efficient, sound and commercial basis.
Board of Directors
31. DBS's Ar-ticles of Association specify that the number of Directors shall
not be less than five nor more than fifteen.  It has been decided that the
first Board will be composed of twelve members, six of whom represent the
Government. The .Government Directors were apnointed when DBS commenced opera-
tions in September 1968 and the Directors representing non-Government interests
were nominated in earlu 1969 (see Lnnex 3). Mr. Hon Sui Sen; fonner Cha4rman
of EDB, has been appointed Chairman of the Board and President. All of the
six noln-G-overlim.ent Directors are bar.kers; three are Singaporeanrs and three are
foreigners.
Executive Comnittee
32. DBS's Board has established a 4-member Executive Committee to which it
dele gat 'Ahe o.LULW4ng executive functions:
ct  \ ,dIJ± LLUIIcL1   -± -e 4~.L±eI  ±IUiI  dI 'ILdiI.LU  DOLU±4 
(a) estUDbl. is,,e nt ofL det:a I'Ied -le nding andl f:-=nla.r Lrg polic-. es olf
DBS covering such items as the terms of financing, activities
to be firnanced, etc.;
(b) decisions on applications for loans, equity partlcipations,
guarantees, underwriting and short-term working capital advances;
(c) the study and recommendation to the Board, as and when necessary,
of all matters pertaining to arrangements for additional so-urces
of finance for DBS operations.
Mr. Hon Sui Sen is the Chairman of the Committee and the other three members
are Board members or alternates appointed by the Government, the financial
institutions and other shareholders respectively - Mr. J. Y. M. Pillay, Acting
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Hvr. J. D. van Oenen, Vice-
President of the Bank of America, and Mr. Goh Seong Pak, Mlanaging Director
of National Iron & Steel Mill, Ltd. The Executive Committee meets at least;
once a month, while the Board will meet only 2 or 3 times a year to deal w:ith
important policy matters.



- 8 -
33. The EIxeclutive Committee, as autnorized by the Boara, h'as delegated to t
President power to decide on all loan applications not exceeding S$ 1 million
to any one fi-m and equity participations not exceeding S$O.5 million in anly
one firm. The President is required to report all such decisions to the E}cecu-
tive Committee for information.
Management and Staff
34. Mr. Hon Sui Sen, Chairman and President of DBS, is the chief executive
officer. Prior to 1961 Mlr. Hon was Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
He then became the first Chairman of the EDB (since its inception in 1961) and
has been closely involved in the formulation of Singapore's industrial policies
and strategies. He relinquished the EDB post at the end of 1968, and is now
devoting most of his time to DBS. Dr. VT. P, Wabnitz, a staff membcr of the Kredit-
anstalt fur Wiederaufbau, was engaged in Mlarch 1969 under a two-year contract,
to fill the position of Executi-ve Vice-President. When DBS was established in
September 1963, one expatriate consultant, fourteen professional staff and
four junior clerks of EDB were transferred to DBS. Since then the size of the
staff has increased to 97- 40 professionals and 57 others.
3 5. lS. S Dahnabalan, the senior member of the staff, has been appointed Vice-
President. 1His principna function is sunervising development banking opera-
tions, including appraisal and follow-up of projects and economic studies.
HTe aln s direcths mormrninI banki ng onrartions which are not likely to loom
large in DBS since DBS does not intend to vigorously compete with the existing
conmm.rc-i al bns
36.  At presern.t, there are seven divisions, nanmlly:  openrationr:- fol oTw-up;
economics, comnmercial banking, finance and administration, internal contro:l
and properties. There are two counsellors:   on.e for develonment financing and one c
commercial banking. The Operations Division, responsible for appraisal of project
pr oposaLs , -s du i video-d ir.ito f our sc ti U. on s, e acI. ' 'w - ch- S I
few industry lines.  The follow-up division (Implementation and Supervision
DivLsion) is :responsi[LLeL%; fUor dcaw±Lng uap 'lega'l Udc1X,LJ, DU_ervl Vng disbse=
ments and end-use inspections. The Economic Division maintains statistics
of1 LDSs operations as we1ll as genterU-l   L   UecoCL", UcI daa .whic a LLCbV ai  on
DBS's business. The Commercial Banking Division handles all commercialbanking
.Lunc tLons. TJLAe Financ;e anud ±iuJ,WInliSL  vtr at i-LUJ. D Li±vision  is a }J spoin v
handling accounts, personnel and other administrative matters. The ControLs
Division carries on internal control and coordination of work betw-een the
divisions, and checks overall operations to ensure that they are in accordance
with the policies established. The Properties Division is in charge of
construction of office blocks and factory building, for lease or sale. It also
acts as a real estate broker on a fee basis, for the Go-vernment on leasing of
Government-owned houses and assists the operations and follow-up divisions in
evaluating properties and appraising the civil engineering aspects of projects.
37. An organization chart as of July 31, 1969 is attached as Annex 4. Almost
all vacancies in each division have now been filled. The positions of the
manager of the follow-up division and the manager of the commercial banking
division are still vacant but they will be filled by internal promotion shortly.



-9-
I-larry stiaff rreaiuers are young and tnus inlexperienced.  However, tney are weti-
educated, hardtiorking, and their quality, on average, is good. At present,
DBS's pay scale parallels that of EDB and this scale is somewhat lower than
that of other financial institutions and private industrial firms. DBS is
aware of tnis and will probably have to modify its scale in order to avoid
excessive turnover.
38. One noticeable deficiency at present is a lack of engineers competent to
appraise the engineering aspects of projects. Although DBS is able to appraise
the civil engineering aspect of its projects, personnel who can make sound
engineering judgments are lacking. DBS does not intend to build a large
engineering s1taff for several reasons. First of all, for large projects
sponsored by major foreign firms, DBS intends to rely heavily on the sponsors'
own engineering appraisals, or, in special cases, to hire outside consultants.
DBS will make use to some extent of the engineering capability of the EDB.
Finally, it is difficult to get technical people, with the specialized skills
required, in 3ingapore.   DBS is, however, now looking for two more engineers
who if they are competent and experienced, will to a large extent, rectify
DBS's weakness in this area.
IV.  RESOURCES AND PORTFiOLIO
Resources
39. DBS's initial resources consisted of the following:
(S$ million)
(a)   Paid-in shnre rpitn  l                          7 IlOO
(b)   Government Credit I                              5
(e-)  Gouvermn-rnrn  C.reit II                         30
(d)   Government Credit III                            50
The first Government credit results from a decision made in Seotember 196c to
transfer EDS' s outstanding loan porttfolio, amion.tincg to S$ q   million, to  S,
in the form of a loan to DBS which bears interest at the rate of )% per annum
and will hp rpaynhle over 8       years beginning Septem.ber 1l 190W.  Under the
terms of this credit, DBS is free to relend the repayments collerted against
+.he  ndivr;dral lons    etenD lon p            l +t D  lon portl  b  rest +t :so be
charged by DBS on such new loans cannot exceed 7% per annum.     A second Govern-
me.t    credit ,  a .   +.r  Qo I30  .4 ,74-5o wa          s etende  4to-   LOTwhn   the EDBloa
portfolio was assigned to DBS, at a rate of 4% per annum repayable over 12 years
start-ng Septermber 1, 1971.  This credit was granted specifically to enable
DBS to meet EDBIs undisbursed loan commitments at the end of August 1968.
4o.  Finally, the Government has agreed to grant a third line of credit of
S$ 50 million at 4% per annum on exhaustion of the second credit.     As of the
end of June 1969, DBS had committed more than 70% of the third credit.
The loan has a maturity of 11 years including a grace period of 3 years.
The lending rate to be applied by DBS on loane funded out of the second and
third Government credits is also limited to 77 .per annum.



41. In July 1969, DBS obtained a US$ 10 million loan from the Aslan Devel-
onment Bank.  ThA Ionn bhers an intenest rntm of 6_7/8%3c npr annum and will
be repayable in 1L years including a grace period of 2 years. As of the end
of July 1969, DBS had n+. it- drispoal reso -r, r-f S$ IC0 millinn nli7. TMJS 10
million to finance its lending and investment operations excluding transferred
EDhR resoress anc d fund  to covrer operations already approvaed (bumt not dlisbhrsjn'
by EDB.  In addition to its application for an IBMu loan, D B S   has also
J. nL   L t   .   U d .f                             a loan of DlvL 10 millioVn
DBS also counts on the Guverrment for additional credits of S$ 30 - 50 million
each year.
Toan PortfPolio 4-al- o-ver fror,, LnD
42.  TheILv 1 di se'Ld. port ULoli. talkven over from EiID atJ  -  1, 1968, consists
of 55 industrial loans (to 41 borrowers) of S$ 42,918,000, one working capital
".LoA.n1  o  _  2 S _ lJI J  U r  A _  1 A       _ -A.. -. _ 4U U -  'I-- - -  - - _   -4_ A   4U -
S$ 2,200,000., all together totalling S$ 45,568,000.  A complete list of the
above  loan3 1.s g±-vtr n L fruex 5.
43. Thle ternz of the industrial loans range  from 1 to 13 years.  Forty-six
out of the 55' industrial loans (58% of total portfolio amount) are to mature
wthi 4 years. About in' of the loans (in amount) were made to metal and
engineering firms, 16% each to the shipbuilding industry and the manufacture
of wood and paper products, 15% to food plants and 11% to textile mills.   The
remaining 24% represent loans to chemical companies, electric products manu-
facturers, real estate and cement factories.  The average size of these indus-
trial loans Ls approximately S$ 811,000. All the loans bear interest at 7%
per annum. In 11 loan agreements, EDB has the option to convert portions of
the loans (9% - 50%) into shares, irnvolving potentially S$ 11.3 million.
As of June 30, 1969, only one conversion had been exercised: S$ 70,000 ollt
of the loan of S$ 800,000 to Malaysian Feedmills Ltd.
44. The single working capital loar was made to a client of DBS that had
exhausted its normal banking facilities. The loan has been made by way of a
deposit placed in a commercial bank, which the bank has relent to the ultimate
borrower at its own risk. The commercial bank has been paying interest at
7% per annum on the deposit while collecting interest at 9-1/2% from the
borrowing company. The loan is for 2 years.
h4. The light industry loans are a:Lso in the form of deposits with commercial
banks, yielding interest to DBS at a rate of 7%, and relent by the commercial
banks to the ultimate borrowers at 8-1/2% and at the banks' risk. These loans
include two-year working capital loans and four-year hire-purchase loans.
All the applications for such loans have been appraised by the Light Industry
Services (LIS) appraisal staff, formerly of the EDB but now under DBS. This
system is welcomed by those commercial banks which are anxious to do business
with small industries but which do not have either sufficient term resources
of their own to accommodate these borrowers or to appraise the projects.
Genernllv speaking, the banks whose liquiidity postion is good woluld nref£r to
make such loans out of their own resources, although many of the customers
wourld have had diffinulty obtaining these loans withou_t the help of EDB.



- 11 -
46. The quality of the transferred loan portfolio is generally sound. EDB
during the past years  incurred no losses.  However, there are some problem
projects and delinquencies. When the loan portfolio was turned over to DB-
on September 1, 1968, there were principal or interest arrears on 19 of the
55 loans outstanding. The total outstanding principal of the 19 loans amounted
to S$ 11,588,388 (25% of the entire loan portfolio transferred to DBS) and the
principal and interest in arrears amounted to S$ 2,543,,623. Within two months
after the portfolio was taken over by DBS, 8 of the delinquent loans had been
rescheduled and the arrears of 6 others had been paid. The delinquent principal
and interest dropped to S$ 1.3 million.  Since then some additional loan resched-
uling has been done and some other loans have become delinquent.   As of June 30,
1969, 16 loans were in arrears. The total outstanding principal of these loans
amounted to S$ 10,292,025 and the principal and interest in arrears amounted
to S$ 2,255,526. A list of the loans in arrears on June 30, 1969 is given in
Annex 6. In most cases, the arrears were short-term but installments of 3 loans
(to 2 companies) were overdue for more than a year. One company manufactures
clay products and the other manufactures chemical products. The former has
been encountering difiiculties in its production processes.   The latter company
has productive capacities larger than the local market can absorb, resulting
from investmenlts made when Singapore was a part of Malaysia with the expectation
of sales in HAlaysia, and so far the company has not been able to expand its
export sales. DBS is closely following the performance of all the companie!s
which are behind in their loan repayments and does not anticipate any losses.
Undisbursed E]DB commitments
47. Apart from the loan portfolio of S$ 45 million, EDB's undisbursed counit-
meonts amouinting to Sh 30$ million were also tr nsferred to DBS.  In the cowuse
of the past 10 months, loan agreements had been executed and disbursements
made against the second GovrLmen.t lii  of cf'reit of S$ 30 million made avail-
able to DBS specifica:Lly for this purpose. A complete list showvjing these
loans and their fe atures is given in A nnex 7. With the excenti on of 2 hotel
loans totalling S$ 13 million (43% of the total), the pattern of these loans
is com.parable wilth the loans in the portfollo tu-ned over by EDB. As these
loans were newly disbursed, there were no arrears as of June 30, 1969.
EDB's Equity Portfolio
48. As of the end of August 1968, EDB had approved 30 equity participations
in 29 cciparids totalling 3$ hI,219,908 of which 3$ 27,80,5     had been pald
up. W4hen DBS was established, negotiations were held between EDB and DBS on
uli urarsLer of IJDBs e qulUy portfoio.g. Originally, EDB wnted to sel   e
portfolio to DBS but the Government wianted to charge more than DBS would pay.
Subseque ntly, it was suggested that BDS rm,anage the equity portfoLio on behalf
of the Government on agency basis, but no agreement on the terms for such
services could be reachled. Finally, the Governmeint decided to transfer EDB!s
equity portfolio to the Ministry of Finance to be handled by its Investment
Section. DBE agreed to take over the undisbursed portion of EDBts equity
investment approvals of S$ 13,412,750. DBS actually invested in the shares
of 6 companies totalling S$ 8,216,100. The balance between the undisbursed
portion of EDB's equity portfolio and this latter amount represents projects
cancelled or withdratm.



- 12 -
V. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Policies
49. As a gui(leline to DBS's operations, the Board adopted a Policy State--
m e n t on July 26, 1969, spelling out DBS's development financing and commer-
cial banking policies (Annex 8).  It provides that DBS will extend financial
assistance to manufacturing industries, primary industries, tourist industries,
commercial building construction Droiects, shipDing and other services.  The
types of financing include medium- and long--term loans, equity participations,
Muarantees. underwriting of nublic issues, short-term working capital advances,
leasing of buildings and equipment, hire-purchase financing of equipment and
credit for eport. of locan nroduct-       C o m   c r c r  2 1 h-nkinrr opera-
tions will include accepting deposits from its clients, for amounts not less
than St 50,00!), ond exter.ding working capitln advances, discioirnting bills.
opening letters of credit and performing commercial services for its clients
or for firms who are unable to obtain the facilities from omup.errciial hanks..
The Statement emDhasizes that finance will be made available to projects which
are in line with tle development requirements of the country and wrhich are
economically and technically viable and financially profitable.
50.  DBS's lending and investments will be subject to the following restric-
(a) Mazilumau lon1t-Ut:er,m 1inLLcUiU.di assistanceluU to single fr  2/- o
paid-up share capital and reserves (or about US$ 8.2 million
equivalenlt at present);
(ob) maximum equity sudscription in a single firm:  l1Or o paid-u
share capital and reserves (or about US$ 3.3 million equivalent
at present);
(c) DBS will generally take a minority position in an enterprise, but
in special circumstances it may take a majority interest, or
wholly own such an enterprise;
(d) aggregate equity commitments at any one time will not exceed its
paid-up share capital and reserves.
51. DBS considers that the 25% limit under (a) applies only to long-term
loans, equity participations and guarantees. IWhile the limit on long-term.
financing is specified, no restriction is imposed on total exposure to a
single enterprise. Since DBS may also provide short-term finance to its
clients, prudence should require that DBS's policy cover working capital and
overdraft facilities as well.  This has been discussed with DBS and
>nnnit.inn of ei: cti.-ncss OL. the proposzd loan is. that DBS will amend its
Policy Statement accordingly.
52. DBS wil]. not normally extend loans exceeding 50% of the value of machinery
or 65, of the value of land and building put up as security by an enterprise.
For small standard-type factories, this may be increased to 85%. Guarante!es
for equipment; credit will not normally exceed 60% of the FOB value of the
equipment sec:ured or 50% of the installed value of such equipment.



- 13 -
93    ThV401 Policyr t+.nmzrn+. noi nronT1P t.hat nl. S will not borrow sums
which in the aggregate exceed three times the paid-up capital and reserves,
but this w;   r.ot apply to f",d obtained through normnl ermrrniI hanking
operations.  As interpreted by DBS, such operations include only depositc
of leso t.an one-year term.  Fied term; deposits exceeding one year are
considered to be Iborrowed sums."  DBS has agreed to a 3:1 debt/equity covenant
in the Bar i1X s Loan Aer
.FrLoce dure s
5.    Project Appraisai.  After preiiminary discuSsion with the Operations
Manager or Ilis assi.stants, prospective borrowers are asked to submit a
detailed application based on a comprehensive questionnaire prepared by DES.
The application is referred to the section within the Operations DivisionI
which deals with the industry to which the applicant belongs. After an
appraisal has been made by the operations officer, in cooperation with the
civil engireers of the Properties Division, a full appraisal report is pre-
pared. WhiVLe in draft form, the report is discussed at a meeting of senior
officers. 'The report is usually revised, in order to incorporate the coumments
of the senior officers.  Then, it is submitted to the Loans Committee, chaired
by the President. The recommendation of the Loans Committee is referred to
the Executive Committee for final decision. For individual loans below S$ 1
million and equity participations below S$ 500,000, the President has been
given the authority to make the decision. In August 1969, the Executive
Vice-Presideant was authorized by the President, with the concurrence of the
Executive Committee, to approve individual long-term loans not exceeding
S$ 500,000 and equity participations not exceeding S$ 250,000 and the Vice-
President was authorized to approve the projects up to half of the amounts
agreed for the Executive Vice-President.
55.   More than 100 projects, including about 50 light industry projects,
have been appraised bv DBS's staff during the 10-month period up to June 30,
1969. The number of appraisals completed by a relatively small appraisal
staff. esnecially during the fir5t few monthR of 1t   nnoperations; indicates
the rapid pace of work done by the staff. Moreover, the average work involved
in each appraisal has hben considerablv increased latelv because of the
improvement in the quality of appraisals and the relatively large size of
prolents uinder rpiaTw- Tn general, the appraisal work appears two h  of' good
quality and the quality has shown improvement in the course of the past 10
months.  MNev0erthzeless, on..m.any projects, an independent judigmen.t on the
engineering aspects appears to be lacking and the staff has relied ltoo heavily
on the stCatemntS. s of the Ispon--sors.  Te   i- room for mpr  r  4 ithis
respect and, while DBS does not contemplate developing a widely diversified
techni.-cal 'CZtVS | L1|tVJ it is, V as noted  cur9 rW en.tUly look1--ing for two.l .  additi.enal
engineers to strengthen its technical effort.
56.   Execution of Loan Agreements. Once a loan application is approved by
DnBS, a letter of offer is  enL t to tel applicant setting forth the termLs and
conditions under which the loan is to be made. The applicant is asked to reply
in Uoln uiuntlh; otherwise, the offer wiL- ue wi uLirawri.  Act.uaLLY, DD ha, been
lenient in requiring applicants to meet the deadline, and some applicants
have neither accepted nor rejected DBS's offer after a lapse oI several morwxlLi.
DBS would do well to tighten up.



- 14 -
57.  Upon acceptance by the applicant of the conditions, DBS p-2ceeds to
draw up legal documents, in conjunction with outside solicitors. Two types
of loan agreements are in use. When a chargre on the borrower's properties
is involved, a debentuire is issued to, and countersigned by, the borrower.
When a bank or personal guarantee is involved, a loan agreement is signed by
both parties.
58. Follow-ul) Procedure. Realizing the importance of follow-up work, DBS
has recently set un a senarate division called "Imnlementation and SuDervision
Division", which is responsible for administration of loans and general follow-
un work.  T)iqhurqPnPen+ts are mnde only nftar thiq DMvi-oinn has ohec,kpd and -Ls
satisfied tha-t all the pre-disbursement conditions have been met by the
borroawersn  Progress reports are obtai ned frm borr.owTers once a Tonth r1iirir-o
the construction phase and audited financial reports are obtained every year
done in the past.  Mainly because of lack of staff, the follow-up work in
EDB       -  -1a I- - - - -  .- a4-4-4,ion was given wa -s--pai4  ol  after
repayments of a loan had become overdue. DES has made an effort to remedy the
1s t Uat i on .L T]^e st-96alff of t.e Div-v io are now-   -WJng u4p.A th  pro-cs  l
and a monthly report is rendered on each of the projects which are active.
T1ese report9s are s-uwmitted to tvhe monthly staff m eeting for re-view and comrets.
While it is premature to judge the overall performance of the end-use arm of
the inst-itutionl  significant, improvements have been made in this area.
VI. DBS'S OPERATIONS
Summary of Operations
59. From September 1, 1968 to June 30, 1969, DBS received 159 applications
for loans totalling S$ 174.7 million, 13 applications for equity investments
totalling S$ 41.9 million and 4 applications for guarantees totalling S$ 70.2
million. During the 10-month period, DBS's net approvals totalled S$ 89.6
million (US$ 29.5 million equivalent), including 41 industrial loans amount-
ing to S$ 72.7 million, 45 light industries loans amounting to S$ 1.6 million
and 15 equity participations amounting to S$ 15.3 million.   In addition, D:BS
has undertaken 2 guarantees amountingJ to S$ 16.4 million. Loan agreements
signed amounted to S$ 47.5 million and equity commitments amounted to S$ 19.8
million. Disbursements of loans and paying-up of equity subscriptions totalled
S$ 29.2 million. A summary of DBS's operations is given in Annex 9.
6o. Commitments and disbursements as shown in Annex 9 include loans and
equity participations originally approved by EDB but undisbursed when DBS
was established in September 1968. If the operations originated from EDB
are excluded, the amount of DBS's commitments would constitute 26% of DBS
approvals, and the disbursements would constitute 30% of DBS commitments.
The lags between loan approvals and commitments and between commitments and
disbursements are unusually long.  This is partly attributable to the fact
that during the initial period DBS was building up its staff and could not
keep up with post-appraisal work.  Also, some borrowers, especially certain
large international sponsors, were inclined to look for alternative sources
of financing after DBS approvals had been given and thus delayed signing :loan
agreements with DRS.



- 15 -
Long-Term Lencing Operations
61. The Ll long-term loans totalling S$ 72.669,000 approved by DBS during
the 10-month period can be characterized as follows:
Industrial DiVersification. Lending is diversified among various
manufactuiring industries- rpil estate, anci sueh enternrisss as
shipping} financial institutions, hospitals and engineering services.
A brnkdin,wr of th_se loans by industrial categories is a1 givn in Annex 10I
The electronics industry has received the largest amount of financing:,
with 27Q r%f' of the tal    ubb8r products man-r-actu-rs receil-d the
second largest proportion, 23.3%. Wood and cork projects follow with
.6V as -e 'estate(munc-.l ..-cotL.o pW              VV.L1wi
10.3%. Othier industrial and service categories have each received
less than-  4 ofP 1)S'Isficng
Duration.  Annrex 10 also shows trle duration of industrial loans.
The average final maturity of the loans is 7.1 years. The amortiza-
tiUon period of each Long-term loan includes a grace period oI i/2 to
3-1/2 years. Three of the four loans with a term of less than a year
-were made to rneet the urgent working capital requirements of DBS!s
clients; these loans were made by putting up deposits with the cormmer.-
cial banks which relent the money at their own risk. These exceptional
loans were extended before DBS started its commercial banking operations.
The fourth loan  witn a term of less than a year resulted from conversion
of loan repayments and interest overdue from a chemical company. The loan
with the longest term (21 years) was made to the Singapore Factory Devel-
opment, in which DBS has a 50% equity participaticn, for relending to
various firms to finance the construction of plant bu-ldings in Singapore.
Size. 24 of the 41 industrial loans are below S$ o00,000. In amount,
these loans constitute a little over 11% of the total amount of loans.
Four large _pans, exceeding S$ 7 million each, represent 50% of the total.
The largesti amounting to S$ 10,845,000, was extended to Uniroyal Inc.
(Singapore Subsidiary) for procuring equipment for setting up a factory
manufacturing rubber boots, water proof clothing and other rubber
products. Another loan in the amount of S$ 5,571,000 to the same
company for financing building construction has also been approved.
The total investment in the single project, S$ 16,416,000, constitutes
16.4% of DBS's share capital and reserves, which is within the limit
of 25/O as specified in the Policy Statement.  The average size of all
industrial loans is S$ 1,772,400 (US$ 579,000).
1/  Subsequent to the period covered by this report DBS made an equity
investment of S$ 12 million in an AMOCO oil refinery project and also
guaranteed a loan of S$ 47 million for the same project.   This is DBS's
largest commitment to date, DBS's Executive Committee felt that the
nature of the risk was such that it could, on this operation, go beyond
the policy guideline on maximum commitment to a single enterprise.



- 16 -
Security. A prior charge on the borrower's factory building and/or
machinery is the usual security obtained by DBS. This is sometimes
suppLemented by personal guarantees by the sponsors of the projects.
For about 20% of the loans extended, DBS has obtained a bank guarantee
as the principal security for its loans. For loans extended to the
subsidiaries of foreign firms, DBS prelers guarantees by their parent
companies. DBS has not made any unsecured loans.
Foreign Participations.  Most of the proiJets financed hv DBS havn
foreign participations. Some of DBS's borrowers are wholly-owned
subsidiaries of foreign firms.   f the 41 industrial loans made byJ
DBS 9 compan:ies are entirely sponsored by Singaporeans.
Rate of Interest and Other Charges. DBS's lending rate on loans
fi  nced out of Goverrment credi lines is 7%, as required by the
Government, while it has charged 3-1/2% on loans financed from it:
own resources.  DBS has usedE Govern-ment funds to finance projects
which, in its judgnent, could contribute more to the economy.  For
loans -Vhich have conversion feat-Ures, DBS also usually charged a
lower rate, even when they were financed by funds from other sources.
T_ general, gi-ven market rates in Singapore, DBS's rates have been
somewhat low. Moreover, future borrowings at a higher cost than it
now pays (W% on Government ioans) will make it impossible for DBS
to maintain even a 2% spreaci unless the lending rates are raised.
Accordingly, as from mid-August 1969, DES has decided to charge 9,%
on non-convertible loans and 7-1/2% on convertible loans. Since
the Government funds have been essentially fully committed, the new
interest will apply to all new operations.
DBS has in the past levied commitment charge on its loans. However,
from mid-August 1969, the borrower will be asked to submit a
schedule of disbursement at the time of acceptance of offer made b3y
DBS and a commitment charge of 3/4% p.a. is to be charged on that
part of the loan not drawn according to the disbursement schedule.
Light Industries Loans
62.     Fromn September 1, 1968 to June 30, 1969, 45 light industries loans (com-
prising 21 working capital loans, 21 equipment hire-purchase loans and 3 factory-
mortgage loans) totalling S$ 1,574,000 had been approved. Applications for
small industry financing are appraised by the Light Industries Division and,
after approval, the funds are made available to commercial banks which relend
the money to the approved project at their otlm risk. Four commercial banks
participate in the program. They pay 7% interest on DBS deposits and charge the
borrowers 8-1/2%. The collection record on these loans has been satisfactory.
The period of working capital loans does not exceed 2 years; the hire-purchase
loans vary between 2 to 4 years and the 3 factory-mortgage loans cover a term
of 3, 5 and 6 years respectively.  'twentv-two percent of the light industries
loans went to firms making metal products and 19% to firms making chemical
products.  Transport equipnment and paper projects account-ed for 10< each, and
footwear plants 9%.  The remaining 30%O of the loans was received by other plants
producing fcodstuf-fs½ wood, leather, ruiibber, non-Metallic prodUcts and trans-
port equipment.



- 17 -
Equity Investments
63. Equity investments approved bY DBS within the first 10 months of its
operations havebeen S$ 15.3 million in 15 companies.  As of the end of June
1969, it had paid up S$ 14 million against EDE/DBS approvals of S$ 23.6
million.  A complete list of equity investments approved and paid up is
given in Anrnex 11. The market value of the shares held is about 13% higher
than the book value. However, few of the companies are paying dividends yet.
Commercial banking Cperations
64. DBS started its commercial banking operations in mid-June 1969. Its
policy is to accept deposits from its long-term loan clients only, and tc,tal
time and current deposits of eaclh client must be maintained at a minimum level
of S$ 50,000. DBS is prepared to extend over-drafts, to discount bills and to
open letters of credit for its clients or for firms who are unable to obtain
commercial bank facilities. Up to August 6, 1969. it had opened 11 current
accounts amounting to approximately S$ 6 million, received term deposits
(3 months to 1 year) from 5 clients totalling approximately S$ 7 million, ancd
approved 2 over-drafts amounting to S$ 320,000. It pays interest at 5-3/4%
per annum on 3-month term deposits and 6-3/h% ner annum on 12-month term
deposits. Over-drafts are charged at 8% to 8-1/2%.
Guarantees
65.  Six outstanding guarantees totalling S$ lh,445,783 granted by EDB tC) 4
companies were assumed bv nR,q nn  i+.zner 1, 1968. Since then, DBS has
approved 2 guarantees totalling S$ 16,354,000.  As of June 30, 1969, guarantees
outstanding totalled 3$ 1235),731, involving b compa'<s.    In examT,ining
guarantee applications DBS has applied the same criteria used in appraising
projects  ajnd security is also normally obtained for guarantee operations.
DBS charges 1-1/2% for guarantees.
Underwritingr Activities
66.  DBS has underwritten a public issue of 3$ 8 million by Eupoc Pulp and
Paper Industries Ltd. The issue was over-subscribed.   DDS charged an undser-
writing fee of 2-1/2%. In view of the booming stock market, DBS doubts that
it will do zmuch   -der-witng because mard securities duealers are offering uluS
subscription price to the issuing companies and sell at a premium after
holding for a brief period of time.  DES!s staff have underwriting experience
and, if demand for underwriting facilities increases, DBS is prepared to
enter activc'l-y.
Real Estate 0perations
67.  DBS is becoming active in somre aspects of the real estate business.  It
has established a wholly-owned subsidiary, DBS Realty Inc., whose main job
at present is to construct a 50-storey commercial office building costing
about U3S$ 15 million equivalent. The building is expected to be completed
within 4 years. The Properties Division is supervising this project and at



- 18 -
the same time carrying on other real estate activities. DBS was asked by
the Government to act as the Governmnnt's avent in converting flats formerly
occupied by Government employees into commercial residential property.
Some 200 flats were re-conditionpd and rented out by DRS under an arraqngement
where DBS received a percentage of the rental income plus a letting fee.
After nrrnis ePyrn'iance DBS fouind the profits on this activity i nsurfiei.ant
and it has given up this job. The Properties Division is also running a
suppnrly ba  for% roffshoe%in  o41 dr,.lling a+4,,-4 ir in 4 -, h-st Asi a '
subsidiary company has been established and facilities built (fully equipped
offices, ope. storage areas, transportation, co-uncations and material
handling equipment) for rental to foreign companies involved in off-shore
o;l drilling. The total, cost of the 0ff-shore Ol DrilliLg OSupply Base
Project amounts to approximately S$ 8 million. All of DBS's real estate
acti-vitieE are based on DBS'S analysis of their cormnercial viability.
VII. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND POSITION
Balance Sheets
68.    DBS's balance sheets as of December 31, 1968, and June 30, 1969, are
shown in Annex 12 and are summarized below (S$ '000):
December 31 1968      June 30 1969
(audited)            (u   dited)
Assets
Cash, receivable and
temporary investments          92,898             94.,019
Over-drafts to customers             -               2,500
Subsidiaries                         -                 734
Loans                           50.84.              52.L29
Equity investments               6,603              14,106
Fixe3d assets                       22               L.837
150,367             168_62q
.U 4. dIJ .L.L.L U, .L 0
Current lLabilities              u,396               2,661
Current and term deposits                           10,997
long-term uebt                 a',)50              55,568
Paid-in capital                100,000             100,000
Reserves and profits               403               3 ,399
150,367             168,625
69.    The balance sheet as of December 31, 1968, shows the position of DBS
four months after DBS started onerations. Its loan pnrtfnlio re2Ghed



- 19 -
S$ 50.8 million, but about 90% of it was transferred from the EDB. The equity
investment portfolio of S$ 6.6 million was entirely financed with its cash
resources. During the first half of 1969, its loan portfolio increased only
3%. This slow growth is attributable to problems in finalizing projects for
disbursement as approvals in the 10 months totalled S$ 74 million. The
equity portfolio during the half-year period has more than doubled, reaching
S$ l1 million as of June 30, 1969. DBS's assets as of June 30,consisted
predominant-Lv of current and time deposits and Government securities. Its
Government securities yield 5% and DBS's time deposits with other banks
normally yield 7% although some amounts have been placed at somewhat higher
rates.  DBS has also been able to obtain a relatively high yield (4%) on
its current accounts with other banks.   Since DBS's own commercial banking
operations (lid not get started until the second quarter of 1969, only the
balanRe sheet of June 30. 1969 reflects such oDerations.   The long-term
debt/equity ratio as of June 30, stood at 0.5 to 1, against the maximum ratio
of 3 to 1 specified in both its Articles of Association and Policy Statenent.
Profit and Loss Accol.nts
70.  Irore sta+vemeIls ~showing DBS s earnin g  from July 16, 1968. when DBS
was incorporated, up to December 31, 1968, and the first 6 months of 19693
are given in A.nnex 13. The 2 incom statemen.ts showv that the interest on
temporary investments, including Government securities, and deposits with
co,xmiercial banks, constituted e53  of DBSs total income for the nperiod from
July 16, 196S8 to June 30, 1969. The rate of return on share capital for the
first 6 months of 1969 was 3.6% on an arnnual basis.  At this stage, DBS has
a 3% spread on borrowed funds.
Taxation
71. Under the Income Tax Ordinance (as amended), DBS is subject to a flat
40% company tax on taxable income.   Dividends received from domestic companies
are treated as ordinary income and any tax deducted at source is claimable
for credit. Dividends received from Pioneer Status companies are not taxed
at source and such dividends remain exempt from tax.   There is no capital
gain tax in Singapore.
Reserves Policy
72. Following rules governing the banks operating in Singapore, DBS must set
aside 50% of its annual net profits as reserves until the reserves total half
the paid-up capital and thereafter 25% of the profits will be set aside as
reserves until the reserves equal paid-up capital.
73. Provisions for possible bad debts are not tax deductible. Actual bad
debt losses are charged against income in the year when such losses are
realized. For the last 5-1/2 months of 1968, DBS made a provision for possible
losses, amcunting to S$ 28,000, in addition to an actual write-off of
S$ 17,690. The provision is shown in the balance sheet, as an offset to the^
gross amount of its loan portfolio. DBS does not intend to make annual



- 20 -
provisions on the basis of a fixed percentage of its portfolio but will review
its portfolio at the end of' each year and make provisions whieh would be
considered adequate to cover possible losses.
Audit
7h. DBS has appointed Price Waterhouse & Co., as its Auditor. The accounts
for the last 5-1/2 months of 1968 have been aud-ted by them.   Their services
are considered satisfactory by DBS. DBS has agreed to submit to the Bconk a
long form -a:udit report writhin 120 days after the end of each year.
VIIi.  FuTuRE OPERATIONS
General Investment Outlook
75. Statistical data on investment in manufacturing, shipbuilding and ship
repairing, and commercial property development (hotels, etc.) is not available
in any detail. For the manufacturing sector alone, very rough estimates put
the 1968 investment level at about S$ 150 million.   Investment in 1969 would
be considerably greater. Given the current interest in Singapore as a
manufacturing center by both local and foreign investors, investment in this
sector should continue to grow rapidly. Given the diversity of DBS's
operations, its scope for growth is good. However, it is difficult to fore-
cast DBS's activity with accuracy because DBS's newness and the very recent
upswing in investment in Singapore leave little historical experience to
base forecasts on.
Business Forecasts
76=  DBS's management is verv oDtimistic about the level of business.   Eased
on DBS's short history and projects now under appraisal or discussion, EBS
has forecast its business amprovals in the 1969-1973 period as follows
(excluding finance for DBS's S$ 45 million commercial office building
project in 1969):



- 21 -
(s$ million)
1969    1970    1971     1972    1973
Long-term Loans:
Manmfacturing projects            85      95     105     115     125
Real estate & other nroiects      10       5       5       5       5
Ship export financing              -       1       3       7      12
95     101     113     127      1L2
Equitr investments:
Manufacturing projects            20      20      20      25      25
Real estate & other projec+s       I       I       7       I       I
21      21      21      26       20
Tot-al 'lorg=6term filnAnciAng     't<     '°       '      ',      '
77.  In 1968 EDB and DBS together approved about S$ 70 million.   The 1969
foecs  of S$ 11 r,ilo    ersns,ices             faot6fo         s of
PLre as  -A  ui  .L.LU  M-L.LL.JLU,EU eJL.E-U0±,1tj  .UI  VLi.U1 U!  L)UU L, UVfO.  1i  VI
June 30, 1969, approvals (excluding a S3 7.6 million commitment toward the
office building) 'Uotalled a'bo-ut S$ 49 million, somewhat less than half of
the projected total for the year.   Projects under study at mid-year totalled
S$ 101 miLLion and preliminary discussions on projects involving substantially
more funds were in process. On balance, the forecast for the year appears
justified.
78. For the followiing years DBS has projected an annual increase of 5% - lO-o
per annum. One of the difficulties in evaluating these estin.ates is that
they hinge to a large extent oni DBS involvement in lar-ge projects now being
discussed in Singapore such as shipyards and oil refineries.   This in turn
will depend on DBS's success in mobilizing local resources, a question which
DBSts manajnement is now beginning to consider.  Tn view of the possibilities
for DBS to participate in such ventures, the financial targets established by
MBS are not unreasonable.
79. In addition to its long-tern lending and equity business, DBS has fore-
cast working capital advances increasing (net) at about S$ 20 million per
annum over the forecast period.   This business Till be highly dependent on
the growth of DBS's deposits as these deposits will be used for this pu:rpose.
DBS does not intend to use its short-term resources for making medium- or
long-term loans.
80. DBS has not broken down its f:uture business into local and foreign
currency components as the Singapore dollar is readily convertible and thus
DBS's need is essentially for capital, and not foreign exchange as such.



- 22 -
However, DBS estimates on the basis of projects financed in the past
probably around 50% of the long-term funds it extends wil'L end up financing
imported capital goods.
81   For financing the normal term lending and investing side of its businesS,
DBS will rely on its share capitaL, earnings, repayment of loans and new
borrowings. Resources lined up for financing new business, including its
issued share capital (S$ 100 mill:Lon) and tihe third government loan (S$ 50
million) would be more than fully committed for the following operations '(on
approval basis) by the end of 1969:
(S$ million)
Actual Approvals, September - December 1968
Long-term loans                            26.8
Equity participations                       5.5
Light industries loans                      0.8       33.1
Projected Approvals, 1969
Long-term loans & light industries loans   95.0
Equity participations                      21.0
Equity commitment to DBS building nroiect  15.0      131.0
16L.1
82.  For the next 2 years, DBS will have to budget for resources of about
S$ 250 million to cover its ..yprovals.  Since commitments and disbursements
lag behind the approval figure considerably, DBS will not actually need to
acquire new resources of this m         bt i        d        to nlan flhclPd
to meet these requirements. DBS signed a loan for US$ 10 million from the
Asian  evelopment B.ar' in July 1060 and hope- to negot-ate a loan of about
US$ 2.5 million with Kreditanstalt fur l,iederaufbau in the next 6 months or
so. Mhese loans added to thie proposed US'` 5 mil'-ion Ba  loan total a'bout
S$ 54 million equivalent. Repayments and retained earnings in 1970 and
1971 total about 3$ 30 million leaving a balance to be raised in local
currency of about S$ 164 million.  The prospect for raising this magnitude
of f-unds in Singapore is unclear.  DES belleves that the Government will be
a likely source for additional funds and is also considering going to t'he market
with its own securities- or mobilizing capital of existing institutions by sli-ng
notes received from its clients to these institutions.  It'will not be easv to
raise fund,s of this.magnlt-ude,but it  is not i-m-possible given strong Goverrment
support.
83.  DBS plans to finance its commercial banking operations (overdraft,
discounting of bills, etc.) out of deposits it will hold for its clients.
According to DBSts forecast, current and fixed deposits are expected to
reach S$ 32 million at the end of 1969, S$ 50 million at the end of 1970,
and to accumulate to S$ 138 million at the end of 1973.  She average
outstanding overdrafts and discounted bills are expected to be about 20'1o of
the average deposits to be held.  (At the end of 1968, the largest commercial



- 23 -
bank in Singapore had deposits amounting to S$ 626 million and the smallest
local bank had deposits amounting to S$ 6.3 million.) During the initial
period, the deposits to be received by DBS are difficult to estimate because
DBS is not prepared to actively solicit accounts from its clients. However,
the assumption that its deposits will be adequate to cover its forecast
limited short-term conmnrcial type lending is reasonable.
Forign Exchange Risk
84.    One major problem DBS faced in negotiating foreign loans was how to
cover the foreign exchanee risk in view of the free convertibility of
Singapore currency, which in turn made borrowers reluctant to borrow in
foreign exchain-e.  Because of tkhis t,he Government has agreed to nssume this
risk on bcth the ADB loan and the proposed Bank loan for a fee of 1/4% p.a.
payable or, the entire amoulnt of thc loan =lt-A1 it i+s fil-l- W-rawn down and
thereafter on the outstanding balance.
Projected Profitability
85.    The projected profit and loss accounts  (Annex lis) show profits
developin >as fol'lws:
1797   ' tV70   19V71    ,C772   1CV7
rIul.LU Dl)JOr'5 tax
(',$ million)                 10.6      9.4      7.0      8.0     10.9
Net, profit after tax
f'S$ million)                 6.I      5.7      4.2      4.8      6.5
Earnings before interest &
taxes/average total assets     8.4%     7.3%     6.7%     6.9%     fj3tO
Net profit after tax as
percentage of share capital   6.h%      5.7%     4.2%     4.8%     ej5< 1
Net; ncome after tax as
percentage of average equity  6.2%     5.2%     3.7%      4.2%
86.    The average cost to DBS of borrowed funds will be 5.1% and the avera,ze
yield is 8%, thus giving DBS a gross spread of 2,9% on borrowed funds. TDurin
the first 2 years, DBS will use the low cost funds obtained from the
Government as well as its share capital. After these funds have been
exhausted, DBS will use the funds from other sources which are more costly.
Therefore, its financial expenses are expected to increase sharply relative
to its gross revenue. In 1969, the estimated financial expenses will
constitute 28% of the estimated gross revenue; the percentage will increase
to [5% in 1970, 67% in 1971. 73% in 1972 and 74% in 1973. Administrat:ive
expenses riji increase gradually in absolute amount but will decline relati.e
to average total assets. If the assets derived from the commercial banking
operations are excluded, the rate will be 0.43% which compares very favorably
with the other develonment finance compnnies with .which the Bank Group is
associated.
87.    Net profit after tax as a percentage of share capital is low, onily
4  - 6% in the 1970-1973 period. It has been clear sn rceDBS's format-on
that it would not earn very attractive returns on its equity for the
foreseeable fulture. Th.e de c 1nw in. ea-ngs 'ween IL      nd    0 is
explained by the fact that i n   1 9 7 0       signi.firant fumis are mos^:} out
of the curren,t prfolio w.;ch yi.elds 7    4 into eqeaty -Tvostmrnts os whLcwih



- 24 -
no immediate yield is forecast. Earnings before interest, tax and provisions
will be about 7% of average total assets annuallv during the forecast
period.
Debt Service Coverage
88.    The projected cash flow statements for the years 1969 through 1973
(A,,x 16) an.d the projected income statements (Annx lh) show that the
debt service coverage would be adequate. In 1969, the cover is almost
5 +-A"n aLnd in 1070 1 ab,ou  2tm-c.  Starting fror. 19 S07  the cn  i be r.
because more loans have to be repaid.   In 1971, 1972 and 1973, tne coverage
Trw i -k be abou+ 1.93 t4miS each, yualu a.nd Jf tP'sn pat+rnr of borrow.4ng  mas nti- ned,
the coverage will be about this same level throughout the life of the -proposed
loan.
Projected DB-lance Shfaets
89.    According to the balance sheet projectiuns (Annex 15), DBS:s total
loan and equity portfolio will increase almost 5 times in the 4 years from
the end of 1969 to the end of 1973. On the liability side, long-term debt
will increase rapidLy. By the end of 1971, the ratio of long-term debt
(including all fixed term deposits) to total equity will reach 2.5 to 1
and by 1972 and 1973, it will further increase to 3.7 and 4.7 to 1
respectively. It is clear that,if DBS-s operations expand as fast as
projected, the debt/equity ratio will exceed the maximum of 3:1 as specified
both in the Articles of Association and in the Policy Statement. DBS thinks
that the 3:1 is a conservative limit and given satisfactory performance it
would consider increasing the ratio.
90.    General reserves and retained earnings will increase gradualy, reaching
S$ 29 million at the end of 1973, or about 5% of DBS's long-term portfolio.
The level will have to be watchecd in the light of DBS's experience.
91.    For commercial banking operations, DBS's Policy Statement has made it
clear that, in making use of the deposits received, DBS will maintain a
sound liquidity position in accordance with established banking practice.
DBS, like other comnercial banks operating in Singapore, is required to
maintain a liquidity ratio of 20% on its deposits accounts - 3-1/2% in the
form of deposits Tith Accountant-Gerieral. 10% in the form of cash, treasury
bills, or net balances with other banks in Singapore, and the remaining
6-1/2% could either be in the above forms or in other Government securities
or discounted bills. The projected level of cash and short-term investm.ents
during the period covered by the proJections will be sufficient for
maintaining the required liquidity. As shown in DBS's projections DBS does
not intend to use short-term funds for long-termn loans or eouitv investments.
TX. CONCT.TNTONS
92=    Dnring the span of less than a year, DnS has P+_'h1iqhAcd itself as an
important institution in Singapore. The managermient is dynamic and experienced
in industrial promrotion and financing.  It has succeeded i.n   mhling a



- 25 
competent and hardwording staff, although with somewhat limited experienc;.
Appraisal standards are reasonably good, although DBS;s technical profi.-
ciency needs improvement. Internal procedures are adequate and end-use
work is well organized.   In general, DBS is a very well managed company asic
its portfolio is generally sound.
93.   DBS's capital structure and financial position are sound.   Its retur~-
on equity during the initial years will remain at a relatively low level
becauise of the narrow spread with which it is carrying on its operations.
It expects to pay a 3% dividend starting from 1971. Th.e overall return on
capibal, before irAterest and taxes, will be about 7%. The cash flow over
the life of the proposed Bank loan will be sufficient to service DBS's debts
with a reasonable margin.
94.   With the overall economic outlook favorable, investment in the
private industrial and allied sectiors is expected to increase and the demand
for finance is expected to rise. As the principal source of medium- and
long-term financing, DBS is expected to play an increasingly important role
in the future. DBS's level of onerations in 1969 is expected to reach
S$ 116 million (excluding S$ 15 million commitment for the building project,
of which St :  0N million will be for manufacturing nroiects.  The total reso-r_e
needs of DBS on the basis of business forecasts would total about S$ 250
million to nover 1970 and 1971 approvnls. In addition. to the proposed Bank
loan of US$ 5 million, the ADB loan of US$ 10 million, a loan of about
TIJS 2.5 million which DBRS exnpcts to obtain from KfWj. anc internal cash
generation, DBS will have to raise additional local funds of about S$ 16l
7nVll On 'lio The.  Tm.tt 11 trahlT supply           i nort.i on of this hbut
DBS will also need to raise funds in the market and is considering how best
to do thim. In    -w    t        - -      r     c m ; T  ;  on  might welL 1e
the restraining factor in DBS reaching its business targets.
95.   DBS is a suitable recipient for a Bank loan, to be used to finance
iTportuedu goodus and serv'ices. 'vwte est±iMiate tLlatu itih Loan will be f uly  Iv'a
in less than the 1 months allowed in the loan contract.   DBS is making a
serious effort in LaLsing adUdiLonal resor-ces Ln the local m.arket and
abroad. The companies to be financed with Bank funds will be privately
controlled and in the man--acturing and service set ort .  As this wo ul be
the first Bank loan to DBS, the Bank should keep a close watch over DBS's
appraisal work. Since DBS will be financing fairly large projects, a
reasonable free limit would be US$ 150,000, with a limit of $ 1,250,000 on
the aggregate amount which may be used for projects below that limit.   Thne
other terms of the loan would conform to those normally applied to developr,-nt
finance company loans, including the payment of the standard commitment fee.
IBRD/DFC
December 29, 1969



A?\TtM'V I
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SIN^JGAPORE LTD.
Economic Development Board
The Economic Development Board (EDB) was established in August 1961.
by the Singapore Government to promote industrial development. It had a
broad range of functions in support of private sector industries. Besides
administeri-ng Singapore's industrial incentive legislation it provided loan
and equity finance as an industrial banker, promoted the establishment cf
industries, undertook the development of industrial estates including factory
sites and buildings, industrial water, power, railroads, ports, and bulk
handling facilities and provided technical consultant services and training
to large and small industries alike.  It has also had. a key role in formula-
ting general policies on industrial and economic development.
In order to provide a wide ranee of technical services to local
industries, EDB's Technical Consultant Services Division set up the Industrial
Research Unit. the Light Industries Services, the Export Promotion Centre, the
National Productivity Centre, and the Prototype Production and Training Centre.
As mentioned earlier in thin Rpnort   some of these activities have been spun
off into specialized organizations.
Financial Operations
EDB, iunded by Government grants,has been providing long-term (over
5 years) a   mnd A.edi.te rm (3 to 5 years) industrial 1oanq at 7T (before Plugust
1965, the rate was 6%).  Loans were granted to finance up to 501% of the value
If fed a.;sets- 1for a n.ew, industry an'd up, to 80%- fofr an pYndnnina one. EDB's
Light Industries Services provided medium-term (4 years) loans to small
business for the purchase of machinery and shortLterm  (2 years loans for Tork-
ing capita:L. These loans bear a higher interest rate, usually 8-1/2% and have
beer. exbe.de .-..una  -s      - -r               ED  dps-      fnds - -1--  with4-,-
Vtj~L1 fAL~1  ut   UI1UI.' a  Z5JUUeL±  U1_ilg0uV1LeiLU  WL5LVLJJ  .JJS-
the commercial banks charging interest at 7% and the commercial banks relent
the money at o-i/2 to the borrowers as thuir own risk. ED i    ted indivi-
dual equitr participations to 49% for a public limited company and to 26% for
a private Linited cdmpany.
During tne seven years (196`2-i96-80), EDB maude 308 loaris tota''ing
S$94.3 mil:Lion and 30 equity investments totalling S$41.2 million. Its annual
commitments are shown in Annex 1A. During 1963-19%65, the annuai commitments
of loans and equity participations averaged S$17-S$19 million, with very
little fluctuation from year to year. In 1966, the total commitments dropped
to S$11-4 million. This sharp decline is in part explained by the fact that
after Singapore's separation from Malaysia in August 195, entrepreneur, did
not move forward with their projects due to the uncertain situation. In 196%7
investors' confidence increased; EDB committed S$23 million for loans and
investments in that year doubling those in 1966. During the first eight
months of L968, EDB's operations reached S$38 million, more than doubling
those of 1967 on an annual basis.



ANNEX L
Paae 2
During the entire history of EDB, 21% of its industrial loans
approved mere extended to the shipbuilding industry, 18% hotel industry, 12%G
to metal and engineering plants, 12% to food factories, and 11% to textile
mills. The other industrial classifications each received less than 10% of
EDB's loans.
With regard to EDB's equity participations, the distribution pattern
is different. About 24% of its equity investments mere made in hotel
industry, 15% in shipbuilding industry, 14% in textile mills, 13% in food
Produrers. 11% in metal and engineering plants and 7% in chemical industry.
Equity participations in other industries amounted to 16% of the totaL. The
sectors .wilich received the largest share of EDB's aggregate financing
(combined loans and equity) were shipbuilding and hotels, 19% each of the
total.
IBRD/DFC
October 7, 1969



ANNEX l1A
DLr,VlPI LIT BAMK OF SILMAPOMf LTD,
Financial Assistance) Granted by the
E coriomic: Devrelopmen_t_Boa-rF_
(S  I C'00)
Total Loans   Equity             US$ Equi-
Development   Shipbuilding   Shipbreaking   Light Industry (net of can- partici-    Total     valent
Loans          Loans          Loans          Loans       ce]Llations)  patioDns  Amount    (;000)
No. Amournt   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.    Amount
1962           2   5,000     -      _       2    2,305       -      -        71,305       2,650    9,955     3,253
196:3          9   9,020     1      60o     -      -        1         2      9,6i22       9,356   18,978     6,202
196h          11  10,1h5     3    1.,1808   -      -       39       497     11, 822       5,528   17,350     5,670
1965          13  10,739     -              2      536      46     659      11,'31h       4,646   16,580     5,418
1966           9   4,905     3      67C)    3       987     41      639      7,201        4,230   11,431     3,736
1967          12  11,856     5     l, 005   6    2,445      48    1,199     19,505        3,842   23,347     7,630
1968
(8 months)   14  22,488     2    1,740     4    1,.939    32    _78       26,9h47       10,968   37)91 5   12,391
70  74,153    14    8,195    17    3,212    207    3 ,776     94,336       41,220 135,556     44,300
IBR D/Dr0C
$,7ptemiTer 1.5, 1.969



ANITEX 2
Page 1
1VflEITOPPTZNT PA?LTK WF CT-kC-A0PCr T'?n.
TAiqt r$ cfinrPhAr1H.,  hv       qq oftorsa  of Junp V0. 1969
Amnirnt
(d$ '000)       Percentage
Goverrment of' Sigapore                                ,6588.7%
Commercial Banks (Local)
The Asia Commercial Banking Corp. Ltd.                  250
The Bnnk     A--- -r,rc, N.T'. R. S . A.              2,600
Oversea  Chirese Banking Corp. Ltd.                   2,000
41le  1 6rV  kogC &L LJ,Lr ..L-  B  ngAJ1Co., 1JUI,0.
United Overseas Bank Ltd.                             1,800
Mt- -   rn-  - f -I-1 
lA WlartLA w-eCL DaIK                               .L , .)UJ
Overseas Union Bank Ltd.                              3,000
Gh-=-e =lia= BanK Ltd.                  ~~1,000O
The Indian Bank Ltd.                                    200
Tne Indian Overseas Bank Ltd.                           300
The United Ccommercial Bank Ltd.                        300
Ban Hin Lee Bank Ltd.                                   l00
Four Seas Communications Bank Ltd.                    1,000
Tne Miercantile Bank Ltd.                               500
Eastern Bank Ltd.                                       483
The Far Eastern Bank Ltd.                               250
Algemene Bank Nederland N.V.                            500
Kwong Lee Bark Berhad                                   100
Malayan Banking Berhad                                1,000
The 1Yitsui Bank Ltd.                                   500
The Bank of l'okyo Ltd.                                 500
The First National City Bank Ltd.                       500
The Bank of ]ndia Ltd.                                  300
The Industrial & Comrmercial Bank Ltd.                  250
The Bangkok Bank Ltd.                                   500
The Bank of Canton Ltd.                                 100
The Bank of East Asia Ltd.                              200
Banque De L'Indochine                                   300
Lee W4ah Bank (Singapore) Nominees Ltd.                 484
O.C.B. Nominees Ltd.                                  1,667
The Bankers Trust Co. Ltd.                              726
2h,010            _.__z



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(s$ 0ooo)       Perce!ntage
Commercial Banks (Foreign)
Dresdner Bankr Aktiengesellschaft                       500
Noridentsche Kriditbank A.G.                            190
Evenska Handelsbanker A.B.                              150
Credit Lyonnais                                         150
Schtoler iVilnv'4m.nyer niast R& Co.                    100
Brinckmann Wirtz & Co.                                  100
Comr bank A.G. 5-00
Vereinsbank Ln Hamburg                                  100
Brer,mer LardebaL-`                                    inn100
1,890          1.9%
Insurance Companies and Other
Financial institutions
Hong Leong Finance Ltd.                                 100
Commonwealth Development Finance Co. Ltd.               200
Commonwealth Development Corp.
Overseas Union Insurance Ltd.                           100
United National Finance Berhad                          736
Commercial Union Assurance Co. Ltd.                     200
The Peoplets Insurance Co. of iNalaya Ltd.              100
The Asia Life Assurance Society Ltd.                    200
Chase International Investment Corp.                    500
The Industrial & Commercial Insurance Co. Ltd.          100
The Asia Insurance Co. Ltd.                             145
The Public Insurance Co. Ltd.                           100
The Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.                       187
The Great Eastern Life Assurance Co., Ltd.              500
The Overseas Assurance Corp. Ltd.                       250
Crown Agents for Overseas Governments and
Administrations                                      2,000
The Shaw Foundation                                      93
Singapore Finance Ltd.                                   98
The New Zealand Insurance Co. Ltd.                       97
United General Insurance Co. Sdn. Berhad                 50
American Lnternational Assurance Co. Ltd.                93
Seacorp Nominees Sdn. Berhad                             85
Prow.incial Insurance Co. Ltd.                           50
Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd.                50
hia TU nderwritiers Life I Gr-  ral insurance Co. Ltd.    2
South British Insurance Co. Ltd.                          5
7,591          7.6%
Other Companies & Individuals (about 7,000 in-no.)   17,851         17.870
IBRD/DFC      TGTA                                                    *
September 2, 1969



ANNEX 3
vLi1uriUlLIli DI'Jla OFUr IDIA±x'aILnE IJIIJ.
Board of Directors
June 30, 1969
Representing the Government
Mr. Hon Sui Sen (Chairman)
Presicdent, Development Bank of Singapore Ltd.
Mr. Tan Boon Teik
Attorney-General
Mr. Chua Kim Yeow
AccourLtant-General
Mr. J. Y. M. Pillay
Ag. Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Sim Kee Boon
Chairman and ManaginL Director
International Trading Corp.
Mr. Lee Keng Tuan
Ministry of Finance
',<^wresen+-u-ir Shhldr   in +1,t Pw4 'Ta+rw Pctor,+v
Alterrate
Mrll'. Tan Chlil ThaLLn
Managing Director
Overseas Chinese Banking owrp. Ltd.
Iu-* Len Ying Chow                       .!LY. l-    w-ice C
Managing Director                         General Manager
Overseas Union Bank                       Uverseas Union ILsuranuce
*S   .   ..............  .                    ~~ ~~~1/
lvr. Louis j.  lkAkern                    Mr. J. D. van uenen
Senior Vice-President - Asia              Vice-President
Bank of America                           Bank of America
Mr. John Wilson                           Mr. Terence M. Attwood
General Manager                           Singapore Manager
The Chartered Bank                        The Chartered
Mr. WVAe!e Cho Yaw                       MLr. Goh Seong Pak
Managing Director                         Managing Director
United Overseas Bank Ltd.                 National Iron & Steel Mill, Ltd.
S4-- YostG. F'r.ckwl
Tv-U. r1~±   F rens c £   1AJI- - L
Chief Foreign 1Manger
/ M5r. van Oenen left Singapore in October, 1969. Since then, the vacancy
he.s not been filled.



UNIY I
Page 2
June 30., 1969-
Mr. Hon Sui Sen (Chairman)
Development Bank of Singapore Ltd.
Mr. J. Y. M. Pillay
A'g. PermianenIt Secretary
Ministry of Finance
IIr. J. D. van Oenen
vice-President
Bank of America
MIr. Goh Seong Pak
Hanaging Director
Nfational Iron & Steel Mill, Ltd.
IBRD/DFC
Sentember' 2. 1969



DE-VELOPMENT       BANK OF SINGAPORE LIMITED
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF JULY 31,1969
K      OE3ARO OF DIRECTORS
(12 members )
I EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
I                          I4 mernbers
CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT
L        Hon Sui Son
r EXECUTIVE \/ICE-PRESIDE1IT
L        W. D.WAfabnltz                                              I COUNSELLORS
DEVELOPMENT FINANCIN(i
__        _  _( V.          iavlicek  )
_______  _______  ~~~COMMERC lt AN,AIKING
VICE-PRESIDENT
_    (S. Dhanabalan)
PROPERTIES  FI~~~~NANCE AND   CONTROL AND                     COMMERCIAL     IMLEMENTATOIN       OPRTOSECONTMIC
LIMITED  F  (NonDoer,  DIVISION  DIVISION               DIVISION        DIV~~~~~   ~      ~~~ISIONR IaIaoe ,  (MaIONeD-VIoAe
DS RE          DIVISION        DIIS ION          CDISA ONR DIVISION                                                              R VIII
DEVELOPMENT   [   _____j                                                                  _ J_-____  ____  ________jj)EEEj1
IACDOU NT S  (POD PGREMOCU  3T) PESONNEL 1                        I       ] I    _ CI SOORSE PENT  P
C  C L4;;2 TEOXT ILEr  1 F7:N G IN EJ E Y~V 12  C
[SERVfICEj   INOUSTRIES j [INDGSTR1]E  INDUSTRIES]
1IRDI - 457S(R)



Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAPORE LTD.
Loans Assumed by DBS at August 31, 1968
Amount
Industrial Loans                                      (S$)
Acma Electrical Industries Ltd.                     400,000
Aluminium Pioneer Corpn. Ltd.                       700,000
Asia Cement (Malaysia) Ltd.                         750,000
Borneo Marine Products Co. Ltd.                     258,330
Camel Industrial Corp. Ltd.                         174,300
Camel Plviood Corpn. Ltd.                         1,060,710
t         "                                   457,656
Geramics(P\alTavsia) Ltd.                         1,500,000
Chemical Industries (F.E.) Ltd.                   1,750,000
I         "                                   600,000
Chenta Rayon Ltd.                                   364,000
"t        "                                    38,000
Decola Ltd.                                         150,000
Eupoc Pulp T -Par Industrie-s Ltd,                1;250.000
Far Easte:rn Cables & Switchgear Ltd.               100,000
e deral± C,h,MiCal TnfqiioAwt.ie  Ltd n. .n-nno
"I        "i                                  580,o0o
Gen.eral L_ather TL-d                               280+,00
It        H                                   362,539
1  ,_ -1    4 I I  f'*  T t- A                       a). Efnn
Ut:Uner-diJ Mwrlu. J. J. V:) - V.A.Xo
324,000
uhiarfL Serig 8_ Co.                                 2,2
Hodgson Co. Ltd.                                    129,000
ndustrial rPanti a EqLU-PFUU -U, L4tde               I;.v
Jurong Shipyard Ltd.                              8,740,000
'L ,VU, VVJ
Jurong Tile Works Ltd.                              160,000
Kall Teck Ltd.                                       17,500
Malaysia Associated Industries Ltd.                 490,000
lialaysian Feedmilis Ltd.                           800,000
Melati Ltd.                                         558,334
National Grain Elevator Ltd.                      2,850,000
National Iron & Steel Mills Ltd.                  1,538,461
,    If  I,,                                  490,000
it        It                                  842,857
if        if                                1,000,000
Pan Electric Industries Ltd.                        313,000
Pan Malaysia Industries Ltd.                          1,000
Selco Ltd.                                          144,000
Sheng Huo Enterprises Ltd.                          220,000



iANNEX 5
Page 2
Amount
(S$)
Sigma Cable Co. Ltd.                               117,500
Simalpan Steel Industries Ltd.                     962,857
it       "1                                 129,500
Singapore Factory Development Ltd.               1,500)000
"t       "i                               1,420,000
Singapore Textiles Industries Ltd.              3,200,000
South Asia Parquet Ltd.                           100,000
Sugar Industry of Singapore Ltd.                  400,000
Times Trading & Shipyard Ltd.                      36,000
37, 500
Thai Wah Co. Ltd.                                 415,716
Veneer Products Ltd.                                62,500
828,000
Wing Tai Garment INfrs. Ltd.                       525,000
Zuellig (Gold Coin) Mills Ltd.                    600,000
Sub-Total                              42,917,982
Working Ca:ital Loan
Long-term Deposit with Industrial and
Commercial Bank Ltd. on account of
M/s. Gim Huat & Co. Ltd.                        h50 000
Small Loan Scheme2
T nT,',T                           I    EA   R
TOTAl.                          45,567 ,982
IBRD/DFC
September 2, 1969



hMilrVV
DELOPM1ENT BANK 0? SINGAPORE LTD.
Loans in Arrears as of .June 30, 1969
Loan Amount           Principal                     Interest
Outstanding       Amount          Date        Amount        Date
Nare of Borrower           Industry         at 6/30/69       Uverdue        Overdue      Overdue       Overdue
Asia Cement (Malaysia) Ltd.      Cement             750,000          62,500        1/26/69           -
Camel Industrial Corpn. Ltd.     Plastics           59,000                -                       2,065       6/30/69
Ceramicus (Malaysia) Ltd.       C                1                                              388,560       6/L/66 - l//
Ch,nts Rayon Co. Ltd.            Gannents          364,000           12,000        L/L/69 -      21,845     10/1/68 - 5/l/69
) / , '-c7
37,000           37,000       10/1/68 -       2,115     10/1,/68 - 6/1/69
6/1/69
Chemical Industries(F.E.) Ltd.   Chemicals       1,750,000                -                      29,281      1/1/69
"1     "1                     "1              600,000           60,000       1/1/69         11,484      1/1./69
Decola Ltd.                     Plastics           100,000                -                       4,410      L/l]/69
Dupoc Pulp & Paper Lnd. Ltd      Paper           1,250,000          125,000       1/1/69          4, 303     1/]l/69
General Leather Ltd.             Leather           280,000           L40,000      12/1/68 -       7,350      6/1/69
6/1/69
362,539          lh0,000        1/1/69 -      10,715      2/1/69 - 6/1/69)
Far Eastern Publishers Ltd.      Printing        1,200,000               -                       [2,000      6/1/69  1/
Federal Chemical Ind. Ltd.       Chemicals       1,000,000          625,000       6/30/67 -
6/30/69
420,486          420,486       4/5/66 -
10/5/67
iodgson co. Ltd.                Fish Meal          129,000           16,125       3/15/69          563       3/13/69
Malaysia Associated md. Ltd.     Bicycles          490,000           7             L2j31j68      19,224 223'31/68
TOTAI,                        10.292,025       1,711.611                     543,915
of Loan Portfolio (EDB)
S$ 40,657,000 as of 6/30/69                     25.3%             1.2                        l.3%
% of aggregate Loan Portfolio (EDB-IsS)
S$ 52,157,075 as of 6/30/69                     19.6l
I/ Paid in July 1969.
Il3RD/DFC
September 2, 1969



ANNEX 
DEVELOPMENT FIANK OF SINDAPORE LTD.
IJndisbursed Loan Commitments Assumed by DBS as of' September 1,1968
Loan Period
Name of' Company                           Industry              Arnount(SO)      Interest Rate   (years)
Undisbur$ed Portion of Loas Signed by EDB
Camel Plywood Corporatiorn                       FPlywood                  120,000            7%              6-1/2
Genera-L Leather Ltd.                             Leather                   37,000            7%              1-1/2
Malaysia Associated Industries                    Bicycles                 510,000            7%              4-l/2
National Grain Elevator                           Crain storage            150,000            7%              4-1/!2
Singapore Factory Development                     Financial Inst:itution   780,000            6-1/2%          21
South Asia Parque Ltd.                            Parquet                  l00OO            7%              5
Sub-total                                           -L,697,000
Loans Approved but not disbursed _T ED]B
American Marine Singaporel (Pte)Ltd.              Boat building             90,000            7%              4
Camel 1ndustrial Corp.                            Plastics                1Li0,000             7%             3
Chang Jit Hao & Ko Rubber' Plantations            Rubber                   475,000            9%              3
Eupoc Pulp , Paper Ind. Ltd.                      Pulp , paper          IL,500,000            7%              6
Far Eastern Publishers Ltd.                       Printing               IL,200,000           7%              5
Far East Shipbuilding Ind.. Ltd.                  Shipbuilding             500,000            7%              6
Guan Thong Private Ltd. (Orange Grove)            Hotel                  7,000,000             8%            10
Hotel Merlin Singapore Ltd.                       Hotel                  6,000,000            8%             10
Industrial Plant & DEuipmaent Ltd.                Shi4building             240,000            7%               -1/2
Jurong Shipyard Ltd.                              Ship repairing and
buildling             3,,773,000            7%            13
Sijgma Metal Co. Ltd                              Metals                IL,000,000             7%            10-1/2
Singapore Fishing Industries Ltd.                 Fishing                  600,000            7%              7
Singapare Jute Mills Ltd.                         Jute                   2,700,000             7%            10
South Grand Textiles (Singapore) ltd.             Textiles               2,880,000             7%             9
United Beehon Manufacturers Ltd.                  Food                     300,000            6e              5
Sub-total                                          28,398,000
TOTAL                                             30,095,000
IBRD/jDFC
Septernber 2, 1969



ANDtEX o
Page 1
DE^OT (PMMEP  BANK OF SINGAPORE LTD.
Policy Statement,
(Adopte3d u.r-lir 26P 1 969
The Development Bank of Singapore Ltd. was established primarily to
carry on the business of a development bank and to provide finance by way
of long and medium term loans, equity participation or guarantees to
manufacturing and other industries in the Republic of Singapore.
I.   Development Financing Policy
(i) Finance will be made available to projects which are in line
with the development requirements of the economy;
(ii) 'Finance will be made available only for projects with sound
manaaement and which are economically and technically viab-le
and financially profitable.  In addition the Bank may adminis-
ter snecial funds nrovicded to it for specific purposes;
(iii) 'Financing will be diversified as far as possible as regards
type of industries;
(iv) The Bank will assist in broadening the base of industrial
ownership in Sin.aqaflre W and nnrticinatinn o_f priv2ate canital
in the development of Singapore;
(v) The Bank will follow closely the performance of the project
:inanced by the Bank and assist wherever possible during the
period of the Bankrs financial engagement;
(vi) 'In accordance with normal business practice, adequate security
will be obtaUned to cover any financial assids±ataLce, otuiier Utlar-
equity participationa, extended;
(vii) 'In its equity operations, the Bank will generally take a minority
position and will not' see'k a controlling interest in an enter-,
prise. In special circumstances, such as an operation providing
public utility or infrastructural services, the Bank rnay take a
rajority interest or wholly own such operations.
II. Activities Qualifying for Development Financing
The Batik will extend financial assistance mainly to the following
activities:
(i) ManufactuLring and processing industries;
(ii) Primary industries such as fisheries, forestry, plantations and
mining which supply raw materials and semi-finished products to
industries in Singapore;
(iii) lTourist industries (hotels, resorts, etc.);



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iv) Construction of comnercial buildings mainly related to the
Urban Renewal Programme (office buildings, shooping arcades,
car parks, etc.);
(v) Shipping, transportation and other service industries.
III. Type of Development Financing
The Bank will provide different types of assistance according to the
merits of each nroject such as:
(i) medium and long-term loans for acquisition of fixed assets with
or without option to convert into stock;
(ii) guarantees for industrial equipment loans extended by machinery
suppliers or financial institutions to Singanore enterprises;
(iii) participation in the ordinary shares of an enterprise;
(iv) participation in the preference shares of an enterprise
()ndrwsi+-;ng of puli'lc issues by Singlapore er.terprises;
(vi) short-term, workiLng capital advances;
\ / L1~J V± LjA- '. industrial ~ buidi  *SI.ys A   .
(vii) leasing of industrial buildings, machinery and equipment;
(viii) hire-purchase financing of machinery and equipment, and
(ix) credit for export of local products.
IV. Limits of Development Financing
In its financing policies, the Bank will generally be guided by the
following limitations apart from any that may be placed by prevailing laws
governing the operations of banks as a whole:
(i) The Bank will not as a rule commit to any single enterprise long-
term financing in an aggregate amount greater than 25% of the
Bank's paid-up share capital and reserves;
(ii) The Bank's participation in the ordinary shares of any single
enterprise will not exceed 10% of the Bank's paid-up share capital
and reserves;
(iii) The total equity holdings of the Bank will not exceed its paid-up
share capital and reserves;
(iv) The Bank will not as a rule extend loans to any enterprise for
and secured by machinery and equipment exceeding 50% of the value
of such machinery and equipment;



A2 EX 8
Page _3
(v) The Bank will not as a rule extend loans for and secured by
factory building and land in excess of 65% of the value of such
land and building. For small standard type factories, this may
be increased to 85%;
(vi) Guarantees for equipment credit extended by suppliers or other
institutions will not as a rule exceed 60% of the f.o.b. value
of the equipment secured or 50% of the installed value of such
equipment
(vii) The total loan and guarantee commitments of the Bank will not as
a rule exceed the interest (or total investment) of the entre-
preneurs in the nroiAet.
V.  LT mi tE* o f TBorreowing ann Rleerv
(i1he -irc-or   of the Bank shall not, withou_t aPpproval at asae
holders' meeting, borrow sums which in the aggregate exceed three
t;_ s +te pald up capU'al and reserves of the Bak    This s.J hall
not apply to funds obtained through normal commercial banking
operatiun si
(ii  ThJ Lle BankL shall setL a s idUe a-t lveast .)/ 50p1o iUs anniual- profiS tsa
reserves until the reserves total half the paid-up capital and
thereafter at least 25p of the profits shall be set aside as
reserves until the reserves equal paid-up capital.
VI. Commercial Banking Policy
In its commercial banking operations, the Bank will complement the
services provided by commercial banlks operating in Singapore. Tne BanK will
be guided by the following broad limits:
(i) The Bank will as a rule accept funds only from clients of its
development financing operations. The total of time and curr,ant
deposits of any client should be maintained at a minimum level
of $50,000;
(ii) In the application of such funds the Bank shall maintain a sound
liquidity position in accordance with established banking
practice;
(iii) The Bank will normally extend working capital advances, discount
Bills, open Letters of Credit and perform other commercial
banking services only for clients of its development financing
operations or for firms who have sought but are not able to
obtain the facilities from commercial banks.
The Bank will extend working capital financing only for
activities which will qualify for assistance in its development
financing operations.  Such working capital facilities will
generall;y be advanced in cases where these facilities are not
available from commercial banks on the terms and in the amomnt
necessary for the nroiect's viable operation.  Such working
capital advances may be made either directly to the applicant or
through commercial banks. Where such assistance is advanced



ANNEX 8
Page 4
through commercial banks, the commercial banks may be asked to
carry part or the whole of the risk in the operation, with the
Development, if necessary, providing the liquidity.
Working capital advances extended by the Bank may be either in
relation to a specific sales order, (in which case, the facilities
extended will have to be liquidated over a said period of time),
or such advances may be on a revolving basis.
tBRe /DF9
September :L5, 1969



ANIE X 9
DEMTlOPMUT aA-r OF SITGUPOAp. TM.M
Operationy, Septertqb 1. 1968 - June 30, 1949i
Applications        m               Agreemients Signed       Disbnisexjant3
Long-tenT Industrial Loans
September 1 - December 31, 1968      28      28 9       13    26.780       20     31,557   1       15      10,72
January 1   - June 30, 1969          37     141,204j    28    45,889        7     lh,405            5        999
65     170,184     41.   72,669       27     45,962           20     11,728
Light Industries Loans
September 1 - December 31, 1968      43       1,848     21       798       21        798           21        798
January 1   - Jlnn 10- 1969         51       2 711     214      776      29x        776           2x,       776
94       4,559     45     1,574       45      1,5714 -        45      1,574
Working Capital Loans
September 1 - December 31, 1968                          9       269        9        269            9         269
January 1   - Jun e 30, 1969                            12       406       12        406           12        ao6
21       675       21        675           21        675
Equipmnent Hire-Purchase Loans
September 1 - Dec,ember 31, 1968                        10       399       10        399           10        399
January 1   - June 30, 1969                             1        305       11        305           11        305
21       704       21        704           21         704
Factory-Mortgage Loans
September 1 - December 31. 1968                          2       130        2        13             2          1C0
January 1   - June3 30, 1969                             1        65        1         65            1          65
3       195                 195
Equity Participations
September 1 - December 31, 1968       5       9,233      5     5,504 M      9     13 660 6/         7       9,2557/
January 1   - June 30, 1969           8      32,683            9,846        7      6,132            5        4,832
13      41,916     15    15,350       16     19,792           12
Guarantees
September 1 - December n, 1968        -            -     -          8/      -
January 1   - Junf! 30, 1969          4      70,231      2    16,354        2     16,354
4      70.231      2    16,354        2     165IC),
1/ Net of cancellaticns.
2/   Including 15 agreements covering loans totalling S$ 28,398,000 originally approved by EDB.
3'/  T- -e I u   CS It C,n i1,46 ased against loarta origirnally approved by EDB.
4/   Loan agreements were executed between the participating commercial banks and borrowers.
5/   Disbuxrsements were made in the form of deposits with the participating commercial banks.
6/   including 5 equity participations totalling S$ 8,216,100 originally approved by EDB.
7/   Including 4 equity participations  ori-.ap.2y-approved by EDB,
8/   Including a guarantee of S$ 16.2 million to a shipping company which was approved in principle, subject to
specific approval in respect of each vessel.
IBRD/DFC
September 2, 1969



ANYZ X 10
Page I
DEVELOPPIENT BANK OF SINGAPORE LTD.
Loans Approved by Industry
September 1, 1968 - June 30, 1969
Percentage    Amount      Percentage
Number    of Number    (S$ '000)    of Amournt
Fishing                       1          2.4         1,100          1.5
Food             ''                       4.9        1,100 15
Textiles                      2          4.9         2,097          2.9
Foovwscfi ''SJ i'~V~d                   12.3         2,125          2.9
Wood and cork                  4          9.9        8,430         11.62
Printing                      1     .    2.h        1_600           2 .2
Rubber products               3          7.3        16,916         23.3
Chemica.Ls                    3           7.3        1,548          2.1
Non-metallic mineral products 1          2.4        1,500           2.1
Basic metal industries        1          2.4        1,1400          1.9
Machinery                     2          4.9           912          1.3
Electronics                   3           7.3       20.300         27.9
Transport equipment                     12.3        1,l9            1.7
Miscella.neous maanufacturiing
industries                  3          7.3        1,465           2.0
Financial institutions        1           2.4        2,572          3.5
Shipping                      1           2.4          750          1.0
Real estate                   1          2.4         7,500         10.3
Hospital                      1          2.14          75           0.1
Engineering Services          1           2.4          120          0.2
41        100.0       72,669        100.0



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Duration of Industrial Loans Approved
Septeember 1l 1968 to June 30, 1969
Percentate    Amount    Percentage
Duration of Loans           Nuimber   of Number    (S$ '000)  of Amount
Up to 5 years               ILO         24.4       5,252        7.,2
5 - 10 years                24         58.6       61,378       8h.5
10 - 15 years                 4          9.7       3,100        4.3
15 - 21 years                 3          7.3       2,939        4.0
41        100.0       72,669      100.10
~~~==
Distribution of Industrial Loans by Size
September 1, 1960 to June 30, 1969
Percentage    Amount    Percentage
Size cf Loan (s$)           Number    of Number    (3$ '000)  of Amount,
Below 200,000                10         24.5       1,222        1.7
200,OC01  - 2,000,000        23        56.3       20,259       27.9
2,000,00). - 6,000,000        4          9.6      1h,343       19.7
6,000,001 -10,000,000         3          7.2      26,oco       35.8
Over 1.0,000,000             .1          2.4      10,865       1h.9
41        100.0       72,669      100.0
._=
IBRD/DFC
Septerber 2, 1969



ANNEX 1L
DLVRlPMENT RAlIK OF SINGAPORE LTD.
F4uity Investzmnts as of June 30. 1969
Name of Company                       Industrv                        Aoylt ApnrovAd                  Amoulnt  idj
DBS's Approvals                                                                                              (S$'00oY
Starlight Timber Products Co.          Tizfber                                9oo                            900
Toppan Printing Co. (Pte) Ltd.         Printing                               725
Intraco Ltd.                           Agency House                         3,800                          1,900
Veneer Products Ltd.                   Veneer                                  19                             19
Universal Electronics Corp. Ltd.       Electronic Appliances                   60
Straits Fishers (Pte.) Ltd.            Fishing                                420                            420
Singapore Factory Development Ltd.      Pinancial Institution               24212
Marine Products (Pte.) Ltd.            Fishing                                112
DBS Realty (Pte.) Ltd.                 Service Industry                       100
Camel Industrial Corp. Ltd.            Plastics                             1,200
International Wood Products Ltd.       Plywood                              1,800                           800
Airco Singapore (Pte.) Ltd.            Electronic Appliances                3,500
Malaysian Feedmills Ltd.                Feed mix                               70                             70  1/
Naigai (Pte.) Ltd.                     Umbrella parts                         101
Fair Lady Fashions Ltd.                Hair wigs                              300                            300
Sub-total                                       15,350                          7,652
EDB's Approvals
Eupoc Pulp & Paper Industries          Pulp & Paper                         1,000                         1,000
Hotel Merlin Singapore Ltd.            Hotel                               1L,000                         Li.000
Hotel Shangri-La Ltd.                  Hotel                                2,816                          1,d16
Singapore Laces & Labels Ltd.           Textiles                               30                              30
Singapore Fishing Industries Ltd.       Fishing                               370
Sub=to+tl                                       8,216                           6,446
TOTAL                                          23,566                          11, 098
1/   Loan conversion exercised.
IBRD/OFC
September 2, 1969



A NNEY; 12;
Page 1
DEaVKOPRETAT BfL(K OF STDGAPOIWE LTD.
9^lc  Sheets,4  Dw,4.,n-   31  1 968R .dvA JTrvne r)  1 OO
ASSE1o   .                      ~~~~~~Deemllber 31, 1968  Junle 30,*L6
(audited)          (unaudited)
Current Assets
Cash                                        8,377
Accounts receivable                         1,038                1,869
Temporary investments
Treasury bills                        43,359               37,822
Fixed deposi-ts                       40,124               52,843
Advances to customners                          -   92,898       2,500  96,519
Subsi diarv Cornmanies
Shares at cost
Amount due                                      -                  734      73)4
T-oans Outstan dirng
Long-term loans and light industry
loans                                    50,872               52,457
Less:  Provision :For losses                  (28) 50,844           (28) 52,429
Equity Investmcnts
Quoted shares                               1,019                6,819
Unquoted shares                             5,584    6,603       7,287   14,106
Fixed Assets
Bank preniises, vehicles, furniture
eq ..;_--+ t-T4TA   AE                        150,367 99     t, -867
TOTAL ASSETS                    150,367              L-68.625



Page 2
LIABILITIES & SH&REHOLDERS   EQUITY                  3         1968
(audited)           (unauditeci)
Current Liabilitios
Accounts payable                            4,396                2,661
Current and fixed term deposits                 -   4,396       10,997 13,658
Long-Tem B orowinrgs
Credit lines from Government                       45,568              51,568
Shareholders Equity
Issued capital                           100,000               100,000
General reserve                              300                   300
Unappropriated reserve                       103                   103
Profit & Ioss A/C - current period             -  100,403        2,996 103,399
TOTAL LIABILITIES & SHARFhOLDERS EQUITY      150,367               158,62<
IBRD/DFC
September 2, 1969



~it. jTV7 1 n
iN rr"7 Pf' nn, OfFtni  o TT r   ^"   T flflflfl  MT%f
UP iJTvfdU-r 'LI flhiPI\AU LD LYJj'HUfruLr iL).
ro-riT ana Loss AccounMs, July 16-December 31,1968 ana January i-June 30,19c.9
(S$ 1000)
July 16 -         January 1 -
Dec. 31,          June 30,
1968               1969
INCOME
Int,erest on long-term loans        10,05                1,673
Intserest on temporary investments    666                2,780
Dilridend income                                           14 3
Other income                           76                   86
l'otal income             1,747               4,682
EXPELISES
Administrat,ive expenses              117                  667
Amortization of organization
expenses                            64
Financial exnenses
Interest. on government loans      625                 993
Interest, on deposits                -                   26
Total expenses              806               1,686
PROF]:T BEFORE TAX                      941                2,996
AMOUMIT SET ASIDE FOR TAXATION          510
NET PROFIT                              431
A =Dort)-oTA MLn rTfj.
Gereral reserve                       300
nei,ained earnings                    103_)
431
IBRD/'DF C
September 2, 1969



ANNEX 14
DEVELOP1ENT BANK 2 'SINGAPbRE LTD.
Pro.jected Statements of Income. 1969 - 1973
(Ss million)
Sept1. 1-
Dec. 31
1968       1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
INCOtE                                 (Actual)       ( -------- Forecast ----------)
Interest on lon,g-ter.. 1.s0a.           1.0        9.0    13.0    20.2    29.1    38-7
Interest on temporary investments        0.7        5.3     3.5     1.4     1.7     2.2
IntereSt & commission on working
capital 'a-v ---e                    -        2.3     3.5    5qo      6.9     8.8
Dividend income                            -        _         -       -     0.L4    1.6
Total income                1.7       16.6    20.0    26.6    38.1    51.3
EXPENSES
Adrnini;strative etpenses                0.2        1.14    1.5     i8      2M2     2 5
Financial expenses
Interest on gc,vernment loans         o.6        2.'     3.3     L,.6    u. 6.L
Interest on other loans                 -        0.1     2.9     9.0    16.2    214.0
Interest on denosits                  _          2.0     2.9     4.2     5.9     7.5
Total expenses              o.8        6.0    10.6    19.6    30.1   L40o.L
Profit before tax                        0.9       10.6     9.4     7.0     8.o    10.9
Income tax                               0.5        4.2     3.7     2.8     3.2     L.Li
Net profit after tax                     o.14       6.Lj    5.7 7    .2     1.8     6.5
To hb annronriated:
Cleneral reserve                         0.3        2.3     2.6     3.1     3.2     3.14
Dividends                                  -          -       -     3.0     3.0     3.0
Retained earnings                        0.1       14.1.    3.l    (1.9)   (1.4)    0.1
o.4        6.14    5.7     4.2    14.8     6.5
RLAT1O:
3ross earnings before interest,
tax and provisions as % of
averape total assets                     7.0%       O.L,7   (.      6.7;    9.9     7-.3
Profit before tax and provisions
as % cf average total assets             0.6/-'     5.9%    3.7%    1.97    1.5%    1,6o
~ruf`,t b,efore tax ar,d provisions
as % cf average net worth                0.9%      10.2%    8.6%    6.2 2   7.0%    9.,3%
Pro it after tax and provisions
s    of average net worth               0.L,%      6.2%    5.2%    3.7%    1.2%    5.6%
Profit after tax and provisions
as % of year-end share capital           0.14%      6.L4%   5.7%    1.2%    L4.8%   6.5%
IT3RD/DFC
September 2, 1969



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAFORFRE LTD.
Proiectepd Balanep Sheets. Decnmber 31tl969-1973
1968   1969   1970   1971  1972   1973
(Aetinl)  T----Forecast        ---7
A_SS E T S
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & Accounts Receivable            9.4   20.5   28.6   32.3   39.9  46.6
Temr-porary irLves-nts               83.5  I43.5    2.5    5.0    8.5  12.0
Working capital advances                -   27.3   41.3   60.2   83.8 107.5
LOANS OUTSTANDI:NG
Long-term loans & light industry
loans                              50.8   96.2  178.0  274.1  375.0 472Lc
r.QuiITf LNvESilvlhEj1i  kincluding
subsidiaries)         6.7  23.6   44.6   68.6   88.6 109.6
FIXED ASSETS (net)                         -    0.1    0.1    1.0    1.2   0.9
TOTAL ASSETS         150.4  211.2  295.1  441.2 597.0   749.2
L I k B I L I T I E S
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                      4.4    4.2    3.7    2.8    3.2    4.4
Current & fi)Lcd term deposits          -   32.0   50.0   75.0  107.0  138.0
I;OsIIGU-  'IZU. BOnZUt.rlv'1 .I JUC
Loans assigned by ED:B               45.6   46.2 a 4.9      37.6  33.3  29.0
Governni2nt loans                       -   20.0   45.0   83.3  103.9  114.7
Other loans                             -    2.0   42.0 128.8   234.1  3,)4.1
SHhREHOLDERS EQTJITY
Issued capital                      100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0 100.0 100-0
General ressrve                       0.3    2.6    5.2    8.3   11.5   14.9
Unappropriated reserve                0.1    4.2    7.3    5.4    4.0   4.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES   150.4 211.2  295.1  41.2 597.0    7149,2
TBRD/DFC
Sei,tem7ber 2, 1969



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAPORE LTD.'
Cash F-low Forecast 1'968 - 1973
(ST million)
9/1-12/31
1968    1969  1970  1971   1972   L973
SOURCES
Share Capita'L                          100.0      -     -     -     -       -
Interest on :Long-& medium
term loans                              1.0     9.0  13.0  20.2  29.1   :38.7
Dividends from equity holdings                     -     -     -    0.4     1,6
Loan repaymenlts                          2.6     6.6   8.2   9.9 19.1     32,4
Government lines of credit                       20.0  25.0  40.0  25.0    20.0
Other lines of credit                             2.0  40.0  87.0 110.0  125.0
Increase in deposits (current
and fixed)                                     32.0  18.0  25.0  32.0   :32.0
Commission and working capital
advances                                 -      2.3   3.5   5.0   6 9    8.8
Interst on short-terrm investments
and securities                          0.7     5.1   2.7   0.3  0A     0.6
Interest on rnoney at call                 -      0.2   0.8   1.1   1.3    1.6
Realization of shor+,--term-
investments and securities               -     41.0  h2.5    -     -      -
Tota'L                          104.3   118.2 153.7 188,5 224.2  260.7
A,°PLICATIONS
Disbursement of loans                     7.2    52.0  90.0 106.0 120.0  13,00
,,44-,.E +., An_+; A; rn+; mrbe.        4      17    91 n  9) n  sn n    O1 n
L .,J  FMo.- I                                                -    -a. v-.n   JJ  _, *   *_* .L- --
Interest on Government loans
cuid lrLnes ofL creCdi1t,               0C7 2.5       3.3 _  4.6  5.      - .}
Interest on other lines of credit          -      0.1   2.9   9.0  16.2   2h40
Repaymaent of Goverrnm-ent lUan anU
lines of credit                          -       -    413   6.0   8.7   1.3.5
D_____ ***5***'*:-  **        -  _                   _ _O)7  1  0 n
1Azpail±et-l on oItVrJ.V L   U±  LI=. V .  -. -  - * *                I.
Interest on i'ixed deposits                -      2.0   2.9   4.2   5.9    7.5
Increase in wiorklng capital advances      -     27.3  14.0     18.9   23.6  23.7
Short-term investment and securities     83.5     1.0   1.5   2.5   3.5     3.5
Operating expenses                        0.1     1.2   L.4   1.7     1.9  2.1
Other non-recurrent expenditures          0.1     0.2   0.1   1.0   0.5    0.1
Income Tax                                 -      0.5   L.2   3.'7  2.8    3.2
Dividends                                               _        3.0  -3    3
Total                            98.2   103.8 L45.6 184.8 216.6  253.0
Aet, cash inflow (or outrMow)               6.1    14.4   8.1   3.7   7.6     7.T
Cash or near cEash beginning of period       -      6.1  20.5  28.6  32.3    39.9
Cash or near CELsh end of period            6.1    20.5  28.6  32.3  39.9    07.6
IBRD/DFC
Septeniber 2, 15'69



R.  r-  1 
Page '
DIEVELOPIMV1T BANK' OF SLNG'.PO0E LTD.
Notes on Cash Flow Projection
'.   Interest from long-term loans.- Loans made by drawing on the 2nd (S$ 30
million) and 3rd (S$ 50 milion) Government lines of credit are assumed to
be at 7%0 p.a. and other loans, including those made from further Governxnent,
lines of credit, are assumed to be at 9% p.a.  Breakdown of 7% and 9% loarlS
is as follows (S$ million):
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Loans © 7%                         20.0    2h.0    30.0       -       -
Loans @ 9%                         32.0    66.0    76.0   120.0   130.0
Total disbursement                 52.0    90.0   106.0   120.0   130.0
2.   A commitment charge of 3/h% p.a will be levied on that part of the loans
not drawn according to the disbursement schedules.
3.   Dividends from equity.. Assumed that projects are completed 2 years after
equity is paid up and that dividends at the rate of 5% (inclusive of tax
© 40h0) are declared in the 2nd year of production and at 10% p.a. ther,e-
after
i.   Loan repajents.- Ass.med that loans are for 9 years and that repayments
are over 7 years after 2 years' grace.
5.   Government lines of credit.- In addition to the present lines of credit
m t4$ p.a. from th'e Government, it is assumned that a further line of cr-d-r-t
of S$ 50 million at 5% p.a. from the Government is available. The first
loan of S$ X5 rlMllion will be repayable over a period of 8 years as from
September 1, 1970. The 2nd line of S$ 30 million will be repayable, as
agreed over 12 years starting from September 1, 1971.  The 3rd and further
lines, however, are assumed to be repayable in 8 years after a 3-year
grace period for repayment. of principal.
6     Other lInes of credt.  Furth.er lin es of credit from other sources totalling
S$ 364 million at 7% p.a. repayable in 8 years after a grace period of 2
years are assumed.
(z.  increase in Current and Fixed Deposits.   The total curre.t ad  fi_xed
deposits received are assumed to be (S$ million):
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Current account                       2       5      10      17      24
Fixed deposits                       LO      45      65      90     115
Total                           32      50      75     107     13j9



ANNEX 17
Page 2
8.     Comraission and interest from working capital advances0  It is assmmned
that 1/3 of t-he current account monies is maintained as cash on which
no initerest is earned. and that 1/2 of the current account is kept in.
fairly liquid short-tern investments yielding 5% p.a. and the baLance
is used for more permanent working capital advances at 8% p.a.
Similarly, it is assumed that 1/10 of fixed deposits monies is kept
in cash And mone,y at call and the balance is used for working capital
advances at 8% p.a.
Letters of Credit business is assumed to be as follows (S$ million):
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
41.0    67.0    78.0    84.0    91.0
Commission at J/h% is assumed.
9.(a) Interest from short-term investments and securities. It is assumed
and investments yielding 6% p.a.  T'his item includes investments made
to prieserve a. liq-uid position for the coMnLercial barking operati on.
tb)  bash aria money at cali.  Tinis is mainly cash requireu fVI- UU11WI,.ercL.L
banking operations.  Interest earned on this item is assumed at 45c p.C.
10.    Realization of short-term investments.  This is necessary to provide
the f'unds for the long-term loan operations.
Payments
1.     Loans disbursed.  It is assumed that 1/6 of the loan is disbursed in
the year of commitment, 1/2 in the next year and 1/3 in the third year.
2.     Participation in equity.  It is assumed that 3/8 of the equity comm:itted
is paid up in the year of commitment, 1/2 in the next year and the
balance 1/8 in the third year.
3.     Interest on Government loan and lines of credit.  Interest of 4% p.a.
is assumed, except for the 4th line of S$ 50 million on which interest
is assumed at 5%.
4.     Interest on other lines of credit.  Interest at 7% p.a. is assumed.
5.     Repayment of Government loan and lines of credit.  This is in
accordance with the agreement with the Government and on the basis o7"
the assumptions made in the note on item 5 of Receipts.
6.     ReDavment of other lines of credit.  See note on item 6 of Receipts.



AI'.ZN.AEX .
Page 3
7.    _Iterest on deposits.*- Fixed deposit interest payable is assuir-ie
at, 6-1/2%.
8.     Increase in working capital advances.  This refers to working
capital loans made to industries.
9.     Short-term investments and securities.  See note on item 9 of R;ecei.pts,
10.    Operating expenses.- This covers rent, salaries and other adminz-
istrative charges except capital expenditures.
11.    Other rcn-rec:.1'W'rant expenditures.- This covers furniture, fixtures,
offlce X r_'  '.vs etc.  S$ I million is provided in 1971 for
fur.-ishing office and decoration of DBS offices in new building.
12_    Inlome Tax is at prevailing rate of hO% of profits.
13_    DidrTh ds.. Assuymed that dividends after providing for reserves and
income tax are paid at the rate of 3% in 1971-1973.
IBRD/DFC
September 2, 1969



