Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB3544 
Operation Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Operation 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (52%); Health (12%); 
General education sector (12%); Power (12%); Banking (12%) 
Project ID 
P107242 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 4, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 26, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 26, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The PRSO program aims to support Lao PDR’s medium-term strategy, to ensure that more resources 
become available through sustained growth and revenue mobilization in the future, and that these 
resources are efficiently and effectively used for poverty reduction.  
The First Programmatic series of the PRSO1-3 have supported Lao PDR in three main areas:  
 
(i) 
Better public resource management; 
(ii) 
Public expenditure policy reforms; 
(iii) 
More sustainable growth and enhanced revenue generation. 
 
The Second Series of PRSO4-7 and related policy dialogue, policy matrix and performance assessment 
framework, builds on the achievements of the previous series, deepens structural reforms on public 
financial management, and expands the reforms on are supporting the delivery of further benefits in two 
broad categories: 
 
(i) 
Investment Climate, Competitiveness, and Business Development; 
(ii) 
Public Finance Management and Improving Service Delivery. 
 
Progress in these policy areas in turn will support a continuation of the good macroeconomic situation 
(with projected growth of 7 percent in 2007, average annual inflation of 4 percent in 2007, and improved 
revenue performance); and continued progress with poverty reduction (building on the decline in the 
headcount poverty ratio from 46 to 33 percent between 1992/3 and 2002/3). As programmatic budget 
support, the PRSO series is aimed at increased predictability of funding and the associated dialogue 
between Government and donors, sharper policy prioritization and strengthened donor coordination.  
 
The PRSO program is an integral component of the CAS, supporting its pillars, achieving the outcomes, 
and contributing to its risk management strategy. Component 1 of PRSO and its subcomponents support 
the first pillar of the Bank’s CAS objective – to sustain growth through managing key growth drivers. 
Component 2 of PRSO and its subcomponents support the second pillar of the CAS, especially where it 
concerns strengthening public financial management to improve the social outcomes. PRSO also helps to 
manage risks identified in the CAS, especially those related to weak implementation capacity and to 
Page  2
2
fluctuating political environment. The second series of PRSOs will continue its strong contribution to the 
third pillar of the CAS and to establishing and implementing a capacity building strategy and 
partnerships, though identifying capacity constraints in all sectors of operation, addressing them though 
TA and an extensive PRSO dialog, and through attracting strong partnerships under PRSO umbrella. The 
latter reflects the recent interest for co-financing PRSOs by European Commission, Japan, and Australia, 
and other donors.  
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Jointly prepared by the Government and IDA in collaboration with Japan, European Commission, and 
Australia, as well as participation from other donors, the second programmatic series of the Poverty 
Reduction Support Operations (PRSO4-
7)
supports the implementation of Lao PDR’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy and its Sixth National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP) which successfully 
incorporates the key principles of an effective Poverty Reduction Strategy and is being submitted as such 
at this time. The financial support provided through PRSOs will help finance the costs of implementing 
key elements of this strategy, together with other domestic and external financing available to 
Government.  
 
The first in a program of four PRSOs, PRSO4 focuses on two broad policy areas consistent with the goals 
and strategies identified by Government in its Poverty Reduction Strategy, and reflected in IDA’s 
Country Assistance Strategy: 
 
(i) 
sustaining growth though improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade and 
management of natural resources; 
(ii) 
improving social outcomes through improving public financial management system and 
service delivery. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Jointly prepared by the Government and IDA and in collaboration with co-financing and other donors, the 
second series of Poverty Reduction Support Operations (PRSO4-7) support the implementation of Lao 
PDR’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as reflected in the National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy 
(NGPES/PRSP) and the Sixth National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP). In particular, the 
financial support provided through PRSO4 will narrow the gap between the costs of implementing key 
elements of these strategies and the resources available from the Government’s own revenues and other 
donor support.  
The PRSO program aims to support Lao PDR’s medium-term strategy, to ensure that more resources 
become available through sustained growth and revenue mobilization in the future, and that these 
resources are efficiently and effectively used for poverty reduction. The first in the second series of four 
PRSOs, PRSO4 is focused on two broad policy areas consistent with the goals and strategies identified by 
Government in its PRS, and reflected in the CAS: (1) Sustainable growth; and (2) Public resource 
management and public expenditure management. 
Progress in these policy areas is supporting a continuation of the good macroeconomic situation; and 
continued progress with poverty reduction. As programmatic budget support, the PRSO program will 
contribute to predictability of funding, and the associated dialogue between Government and donors to 
strengthened policy prioritization and donor coordination. Seven triggers were negotiated for PRSO4. The 
wording of these triggers is set out below along with prior actions recognized and negotiated with the 
Government. 
Page  3
3
Summary of Triggers for PRSO4 
Trigger 1: 
The Government approves the negative list of activities as part of Enterprise Law 
implementation
 
Trigger 2: 
MOIC abolishes the requirement to follow approved annual import-export plan and abolishes 
licensing requirements for all goods outside the revised control list 
Trigger 3: 
BPO continues monitoring of SOEs, including completion of independent external audits for 
FY05 and FY06 for four Phase II and three Phase I SOEs 
Trigger 4: 
MOF, MEM and Electric
ité du Laos (EDL) agree upon the quantum and a plan to settle 
arrears from GOL entities to EDL for the year ending September 2006 within implementation of  the 
Action Plan for Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector
 
Trigger 5: 
MOF issues Budget Circular for FY2008/9 budget requiring ministries and provinces to 
prepare budget estimates based on revised Chart of Accounts (COA) and Budget Nomenclature 
Trigger 6: 
MoF publishes FY2005/6 actual budget and prepares FY2007/8 summary budget with: (i) 
administrative classification; (ii) priority expenditure sectors; (iii) summary data on statutory funds; and 
(iv) technical revenues for health and education sectors at central level, publishing a summary within the 
first quarter of the fiscal year 
Trigger 7: 
MOE presents the Education for All Mid-Decade Assessment (EFA MDA) and Fast Track 
Initiative (FTI) Report to Education and Gender Sector Working Group (EGSWG) for EFA-FTI 
endorsement 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Overall, the environmental impacts of this operation are not expected to be significant. Nevertheless, 
certain environmental impacts are likely—positive in some areas and potentially negative in others, and 
PRSO3 supports a wide range of policy areas and interventions. While some PRSO supported actions 
may have environmental implications (such as SOE restructuring), given that SOE sector is small and, 
impacts will be low. While trade liberalization may potentially have an impact on the environment, this 
operation covers only first steps and regulatory reform aimed directly at easing cross-border movements 
of goods, rather than at major trade reforms. The impacts therefore are expected to be low.  
PRSO4 continues to support major policy and institutional reform in natural resources management. 
Regarding infrastructure, the PRSO program provides support to EdL to implement the Action Plan for 
the Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector. Since the major source of power comes from 
hydropower with potentially high environment and social impacts, the government is working toward 
ensuring compliance with environmental and social safeguards. Support from international partners is 
available through the Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project, Nam Theun Social and Environment Project, 
and the Lao Environment and Social Project. In the context of NT2, the Government has enacted the 
National Policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower Sector to ensure that 
future development of the hydropower projects complies with environment and social safeguards. 
The PRSO program is supported by AAA work. In particular, Poverty and Environment Nexus (PEN) 
study; the Lao Environmental and Social (LEnS) project; NT2 environmental, economic and social work; 
the Poverty and Environment Nexus study series and the Lao Environment Monitor. With respect to the 
relationship between budgeting and environmental impacts, the 2005/6 Public Expenditure Review has a 
chapter devoted to environmental issues.  
The Lao Environmental and Social project is supporting the development of the regulatory framework for 
the hydropower sector, and in relation to other large development projects. Sub-grants to support 
implementation of the National Policy on the Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower 
Sector and the Resettlement Policy are due to get underway in the coming weeks. A further sub-grant will 
Page  4
4
help to develop a river basin organization to manage water resources in the Nam Theun / Nam Kading 
basin, contributing to the development of a national river basin management model, alongside ABD/AFD 
efforts in the Nam Ngum basin. 
The Nam Theun 2 project remains the primary vehicle for on-the-ground implementation of social and 
environmental safeguards related to hydropower development, and is providing considerable practical 
experience and potential for capacity building in relation to a broad range of social and environmental 
activities, including detailed and long-term village consultations, protected area management, community 
forestry, community fisheries, development of market-based agriculture, and development of links 
between micro-credit schemes and the formal financial sector. 
Several studies and activities are currently under way, and will contribute to the work under PRSO4-7 
series. A piece of regional AAA on the Social and Economic Drivers of Wildlife Trade in East Asia 
currently underway will also contribute to the understanding of trade issues in relation to conservation. 
LEnS funds could be used to examine or address environmental issues related to the PRSO activities. 
Future Environment Monitors could also be addressed towards relevant topics. In mining, a study is 
currently being undertaken that will bring technical assistance into the mining industry to help the 
government deal with impacts of the growing mining operations, including environmental impacts. 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
IDA Grant 
10.0 
 Total 
10.0 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Ms. Ekaterina Vostroknutova 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5784-221 
Fax: (856)-21-414210 
Email: evostroknutova@worldbank.org
 
