Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3754 
 
Operation Name 
Fourth Lao PDR Poverty Reduction Support Operation Grant 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (52%); Health (12%); Power 
(12%); Banking (12%); General education sector (12%) 
Project ID 
P107242 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 20, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 12, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
June 17, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The PRSO program aims to support Lao PDR’s medium-term strategy, to ensure that more resources 
become available through sustained growth and revenue mobilization in the future, and that these 
resources are efficiently and effectively used for poverty reduction.  
The First Programmatic series of the PRSO1-3 have supported Lao PDR in three main areas:  
(i) 
Better public resource management; 
(ii) 
Public expenditure policy reforms; 
(iii) 
More sustainable growth and enhanced revenue generation. 
 
The Second Series of PRSO4-7 and related policy dialogue, policy matrix and performance assessment 
framework, builds on the achievements of the previous series, deepens structural reforms on public 
financial management, and expands the reforms on are supporting the delivery of further benefits in two 
broad categories: 
(i) 
Investment Climate, Competitiveness, and Business Development; 
(ii) 
Public Finance Management and Improving Service Delivery. 
 
Progress in these policy areas in turn will support a continuation of the good macroeconomic situation 
(with growth of 7.1 percent in 2005, average annual inflation rate at 4 percent in 2007, and improved 
revenue performance); and continued progress with poverty reduction (building on the decline in the 
headcount poverty ratio from 46 to 33 percent between 1992/3 and 2002/3). As programmatic budget 
support, the PRSO series is aimed at increased predictability of funding and the associated dialogue 
between Government and donors, sharper policy prioritization and strengthened donor coordination.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
Jointly prepared by the Government and IDA in collaboration with Japan, European Commission, and 
Australia, as well as participation from other donors, the second programmatic series of the Poverty 
Reduction Support Operations (PRSO4-7) supports the implementation of Lao PDR’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy and its Sixth National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP) which successfully 
Page  2
incorporates the key principles of an effective Poverty Reduction Strategy and is being submitted as such 
at this time. The financial support provided through PRSOs will help finance the costs of implementing 
key elements of this strategy, together with other domestic and external financing available to 
Government.  
 
The first in a program of four PRSOs, PRSO4 focuses on two broad policy areas consistent with the goals 
and strategies identified by Government in its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy, and reflected in IDA’s 
Country Assistance Strategy: 
 
(i) 
sustaining growth though improvement of the investment climate, facilitating trade and 
management of natural resources; 
(ii) 
improving social outcomes through improving public financial management system and 
service delivery. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSO program is an integral component of the CAS, supporting its pillars, achieving the outcomes, 
and contributing to its risk management strategy. Component 1 of PRSO supports the first pillar of the 
Bank’s CAS objective – to sustain growth through managing key growth drivers. Component 2 of PRSO 
supports the second pillar of the CAS, especially where it concerns strengthening public financial 
management to improve the social outcomes. PRSO also helps to manage risks identified in the CAS, 
especially those related to weak implementation capacity and to fluctuating political environment. The 
second series of PRSOs will continue its strong contribution to the third pillar of the CAS and to 
establishing and implementing a capacity building strategy and partnerships, though identifying capacity 
constraints in all sectors of operation, addressing them though TA and an extensive PRSO dialog, and 
through attracting strong partnerships under PRSO umbrella. The latter reflects growing interest for co-
financing PRSOs by other donors, as well as joint appraisals with European Commission, Japan, and 
Australia.  
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
IDA Grant 
10.0 
 Total 
10.0 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Jointly prepared by the Government and IDA and in collaboration with co-financing and other donors, the 
second series of Poverty Reduction Support Operations (PRSO4-7) support the implementation of Lao 
PDR’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as reflected in the National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy 
(NGPES/PRSP) and the Sixth National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP). In particular, the 
financial support provided through PRSO4 will narrow the gap between the costs of implementing key 
elements of these strategies and the resources available from the Government’s own revenues and other 
donor support.  
The PRSO program aims to support Lao PDR’s medium-term strategy, to ensure that more resources 
become available through sustained growth and revenue mobilization in the future, and that these 
Page  3
resources are efficiently and effectively used for poverty reduction. The first in the second series of four 
PRSOs, PRSO4 is focused on two broad policy areas consistent with the goals and strategies identified by 
Government in its PRS, and reflected in the CAS: (1) Sustainable growth; and (2) Public resource 
management and public expenditure management. 
Progress in these policy areas is supporting a continuation of the good macroeconomic situation; and 
continued progress with poverty reduction. As programmatic budget support, the PRSO program will 
contribute to predictability of funding, and the associated dialogue between Government and donors to 
strengthened policy prioritization and donor coordination.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Progress in the policy areas supported by PRSO4 will support a continuation of the good 
macroeconomic situation and sustainable export- and private sector- driven growth (with growth of 
about 7 percent and average annual inflation rate at 4 percent in 2007, and improved revenue 
performance), and continued progress with poverty reduction (building on the decline in the 
headcount poverty ratio from 46 to 33 percent between 1992/3 and 2002/3), including through 
reform of the public finance management system (as well as better management of natural resource 
revenues including those of NT2). As programmatic budget support, the PRSO series is aimed at 
increased predictability of funding and the associated dialogue between Government and donors, 
sharper policy prioritization and strengthened donor coordination.
 
Four main risks have been identified which could affect the impact of the proposed operation:   
 
(a) 
Weak public financial management systems
 indicate high fiduciary risk. This risk is mitigated 
through a strong public financial management component built into the PRSO3. Continuing fiscal risks 
could result in the diversion of PRSO funds away from PRS priorities, and to cover losses of State 
Commercial Banks and State-Owned Enterprises. This risk is partially mitigated by program of 
monitoring of SOE and SOCB performance embedded in PRSO3 program matrix. 
(b) 
Severe capacity constraints in the civil service
,
due to the lack of qualified personnel, and low 
pay and incentives. This risk is partially mitigated by additional resources made available for PRSO3 
implementation through a WB credit (FMCBP), Mining and Energy Sectoral TA, TA provided by other 
donors, and in particular 
–
by
an application for a PHRD grant for PRSO7 preparation. 
(c) 
Provincial autonomy
 
without adequate monitoring and accountability mechanisms
 hampers 
implementation of national policies and an equitable distribution of resources. This risk is mitigated 
through a technical assistance on public financial management that focuses on building systems for 
better central-local relations management and increased central control over expenditure execution and 
revenue collection. 
(d) 
Uneven commitment to reforms
 in the past has resulted in poor policy implementation 
performance. Recently, however, the Government has shown increasingly stronger commitment to 
reforms reflected in improved performance on PRSO3, extensive dialog on NSEDP/PRS, strengthening 
the central-local fiscal framework, and a commitment to a range of for trade and investment climate 
related reforms. 
 
Page  4
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
POVERTY AND SOCIAL ASPECTS 
1. 
Several beneficiary-related outcomes of the undertaken reforms stand out based on the 
results of recent AAA work done by the country team.
 Overall, economic growth and improvements in 
infrastructure and social sphere have benefited poor the most. Poverty was reduced the most within the 
poorest districts. Impact incidence shows that minorities, while still remained disadvantaged, have 
benefited on average more than other groups. The ongoing studies, including the PSIA, uplands study and 
social inclusion work, will nuance this picture.  
2. 
The Lao Poverty Assessment (LAOPA)
 was completed in 2006. It finds strong evidence of a 
relationship between poverty and the following characteristics. It finds a strong correlation between 
poverty and rural infrastructure: the poor are more likely to live in a village without electricity (45 
percent) or a primary school (7 percent). It also finds that the education of the household head and spouse 
are strongly correlated with poverty. For example, the share of heads of household without any schooling 
is 75 percent larger in 2002/3 than among the non-poor. This compares with only about 50 percent in 
1992/3, suggesting that some schooling has become more important for escaping poverty. LAOPA thus 
tends to confirm the poverty reduction benefits of prioritizing sectors such as basic education and rural 
electrification, as is done in the PRSP. 
3. 
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA, FY2008) aims to understand more about how 
Government's poverty reduction strategies are translated into implementation at community level, 
and the degree to which they are effective in closing poverty gaps between ethnic groups, and between 
men and women. The study looks at the government's strategy to focus poverty reduction efforts at the 47 
poorest districts which are the areas where these gaps are also the greatest, at how public expenditure 
allocations have been reformed in response to this strategy and at how it translates into inclusive actions 
at the community level. It was anticipated that a better understanding of how this strategy manifested 
itself in activities on the ground would contribute to information on the potential social impacts of policy 
based lending, and provide recommendations for management of Nam Theun 2 revenues, as well as 
providing information on the nexus of sectoral strategies and investment projects, with geographic 
targeting.  
4. 
The PSIA concludes that the government's policy to target poverty reduction efforts on the 
poorest districts provides a good basis for a sound, socially inclusive, poverty reduction policy.
 The 
study also found that there was active implementation of policies to stabilize shifting cultivation, 
consolidate villages, and develop focal areas, and that while some people benefited from these policies, 
others, especially the more vulnerable groups, suffered negative impacts. Although information on 
budgets at the local level was limited, no evidence was found of government budget being used to fund 
the implementation of the policies.  
5. 
The environmental impacts of this operation are not expected to be significant.
 Nevertheless, 
certain environmental impacts are likely
—positive in some areas and potentially negative in others, and 
PRSO3 supports a wide range of policy areas and interventions. While some PRSO supported actions 
may have environmental implications (such as SOE restructuring), given that SOE sector is small and, 
impacts will be low. While trade liberalization may potentially have an impact on the environment, this 
operation covers only first steps and regulatory reform aimed directly at easing cross-border movements 
of goods, rather than at major trade reforms. The impacts therefore are expected to be low.  
6. 
PRSO4 continues to support major policy and institutional reform in natural resources 
management.
 Regarding infrastructure, the PRSO program provides support to EdL to implement the 
Page  5
Action Plan for the Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector. Since the major source of power comes 
from hydropower with potentially high environment and social impacts, the government is working 
toward ensuring compliance with environmental and social safeguards. Support from international 
partners is available through the Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project, Nam Theun Social and 
Environment Project, and the Lao Environment and Social Project. In the context of NT2, the 
Government has enacted the National Policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability of the 
Hydropower Sector to ensure that future development of the hydropower projects complies with 
environment and social safeguards. 
7. 
The PRSO program is supported by
 the Poverty and Environment Nexus (PEN) study; the Lao 
Environmental and Social (LEnS) project; NT2 environmental, economic and social work; the Poverty 
and Environment Nexus study series and the Lao Environment Monitor. With respect to the relationship 
between budgeting and environmental impacts, the 2005/6 Public Expenditure Review has a chapter 
devoted to environmental issues.  
8. 
The Lao Environmental and Social project
 is supporting the development of the regulatory 
framework for the hydropower sector, and in relation to other large development projects. Sub-grants to 
support implementation of the National Policy on the Environmental and Social Sustainability of the 
Hydropower Sector and the Resettlement Policy are due to get underway in the coming weeks. A further 
sub-grant will help to develop a river basin organization to manage water resources in the Nam Theun / 
Nam Kading basin, contributing to the development of a national river basin management model, 
alongside ABD/AFD efforts in the Nam Ngum basin. 
9. 
The Nam Theun 2 project
 remains the primary vehicle for on-the-ground implementation of 
social and environmental safeguards related to hydropower development, and is providing considerable 
practical experience and potential for capacity building in relation to a broad range of social and 
environmental activities, including detailed and long-term village consultations, protected area 
management, community forestry, community fisheries, development of market-based agriculture, and 
development of links between micro-credit schemes and the formal financial sector. 
10. 
Several studies and activities are currently under way, and will contribute to the work 
under PRSO4-7 series.
 A piece of regional AAA on the Social and Economic Drivers of Wildlife Trade 
in East Asia currently underway will also contribute to the understanding of trade issues in relation to 
conservation. LEnS funds could be used to examine or address environmental issues related to the PRSO 
activities. Future Environment Monitors could also be addressed towards relevant topics. In mining, a 
study is currently being undertaken that will bring technical assistance into the mining industry to help the 
government deal with impacts of the growing mining operations, including environmental impacts. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Ms. Ekaterina Vostroknutova 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5784-221 
Fax: (856)-21-414210 
Email: evostroknutova@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
Page  6
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
