Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H402-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Operation/Program) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 25, 2008  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H402-LA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 25, 2008, entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to six 
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,100,000) 
(“Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment, a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this    
 Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
Page  4
3
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
23 Singha Road 
Nongbone Village 
Saysettha District 
Vientiane, Lao PDR 
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Vientiane, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By :/s/ Viengthong Siphandone 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Ian C. Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE  
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program.
 
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient has approved a negative list of business activities that would 
require prior approval from line agencies before enterprise registration as part of the 
implementation of the Enterprise Law and 
the Prime Minister’s Office issued an 
Instructive Order on the Establishment of the Negative List (Ref. No. 1930/GS of 
November 12, 2007).  
 
2. 
The Recipient has abolished: (a) the requirement to follow an approved annual 
import-export plan (MOIC Order No. 0453 of March 26, 2007); and (b) licensing 
requirements for all goods outside the revised control list of goods subject to import 
export license (MOIC Notice No. 1376 of March 26, 2007). 
 
3. 
The Business Promotion Office has carried out monitoring of State Owned 
Enterprises during the FY 2007, including completion of independent external audits for 
FY 2005 and FY 2006 for Lao Airlines, Nam Papa Lao, Pharmaceutical Factory 3, 
Bolisat Pattana Khet Poudoi, Agriculture Industry Development Import Export State 
Owned Enterprise, Lao State Fuel Company, Société Lao Import Export, and Road 
Construction Company 13. 
 
4. 
The MOF, MEM and Electricité du Laos agreed upon the quantum of arrears and 
a
plan to settle such arrears from Recipient’s agencies to EDL for the Recipient’s  
FY 2006 pursuant to the Power Sector Action Plan. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has issued Ministerial Decision No. 0750/MOF on April 1, 2008 
requiring ministries and provinces to prepare FY2008/09 budget estimates based on A 
revised chart of accounts compatible with the government’s finance statistics guidelines 
and budget nomenclature. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has (a) published FY2005/06 budget in the Official Gazette, and 
(b) prepared its FY2007/08 summary budget with: (i) administrative classification;       
(ii) priority expenditure sectors; (iii) summary data on statutory funds; and (iv) technical 
revenues for health and education sectors at central level; and published said budget 
within the first half of FY2007/08. 
 
7. 
The MOE presented the Education for All Mid-Decade Assessment to the 
Education and Gender Sector Working Group on March 11, 2008.
 
Page  6
5
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)   
 
Single Tranche 
6,100,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,100,000
C.   
Deposit of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
(b) 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in 
United States Dollars at the Bank of Lao PDR designated by the Recipient and on terms 
and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the Association:  
 
(a) 
the name and number of the bank account mentioned in paragraph 1(a) 
above; 
 
(b) 
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account 
referred to in paragraph 2 above; 
 
Page  7
6
(c) 
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated 
deposit account at the Bank of Lao PDR, and, where funds are 
transferred into local currency, the equivalent amounts credited in local 
currency to the Central Treasury Account to finance budgeted 
expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or  number of the Central Treasury Account to 
finance budgeted expenditures into which the local currency amounts 
have been deposited. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.  
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
E. Audit.
 
1. 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
(C) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2009. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Agriculture Industry Development Import Export State Owned Enterprise 
(DAI)” means the wholly state-owned enterprise established and operating 
pursuant to resolution number 474 dated April 6, 1989, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
2. 
“Bolisat Pattana Khet Pudoi” means a wholly state-owned enterprise established 
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 188, dated August 19, 1984, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Business Promotion Office” means the [0]office in the Prime Minister’s Office 
in charge of state owned enterprises reform and business improvement under the 
supervision of the Minister to the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for 
business development, and any successor thereto. 
 
4. 
“Central Treasury Account” means the Government Account at the Bank of Lao 
and operated by MOF. 
 
5. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section II(C)2 of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“EdL” means the state-owned enterprise 
Electrici
té du Laos
,
a
state-owned 
enterprise, established and operating pursuant to the Charter of 
Electricité du 
Laos
,
as such Charter was approved by the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts 
and the Board of Directors of 
Electricité du Laos
 on
December 29, 1997.
 
7. 
“Education and Gender Sector Working Group” means the Recipient’s working 
group on education chaired by MoE and co-chaired by AusAID/UNICEF which 
is assessing donor support to the education sector and aid coordination among 
development partners. 
 
8. 
“Education for All Mid-Decade Assessment” means the report dated March 11, 
2008, that assesses progress made against the Education for All goals in Lao 
PDR since 2000, prepared by the Ministry of Education with support from 
development partners. 
 
9. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
Page  9
8
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or sub-groups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
Page  10
9
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
10. 
“FY” means: (a) in the case of the Recipient, the fiscal year extending from 
October 1 in any calendar year through September 30 of the following year; and 
(b) in the case of Lao Airlines, Nam Papa Lao, Pharmaceutical Factory 3, Bolisat 
Pattana Khet Poudoi, Agriculture Industry Development Import Export State 
Owned Enterprise, Lao State Fuel Company, Société Lao Import Export, and 
Road Construction Company 13, the fiscal year extending from January 1 to 
December 31. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
12. 
“Lao Airlines” means the wholly state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to Decision No. 771/MCTPC dated May 23, 1989, of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“MEM” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy and Mines or any successor 
thereof. 
 
14. 
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“MOIC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Commerce or any 
successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“Nam Papa Laos” means a wholly state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to Decision No. 1296, dated April 5, 2001, of the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Transport and Communications, and any successor thereto. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
18. 
“Official Gazette” means the Recipient’s official 
journal
that publishes, 
inter 
alia
,
the budget, texts of the new 
laws
and government decisions. 
 
19. 
“Pharmaceutical Factory 3” means a wholly state-owned enterprise established 
and operating pursuant to Resolution No. 275, dated May 15, 1987, of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Health, and any successor thereto. 
 
20. 
“Power Sector Action Plan” means the action plan signed on November 22, 2005 
by the MIH, the MOF, and EdL. 
 
21. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 2, 2008, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
22. 
“Road Construction Company 13” means the wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to resolution number 2375 dated October 30, 
1993, and any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
24. 
“Société Lao Import Export” means the wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to resolution number 67 dated November 19, 
1985, and any successor thereto. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  12
11 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date.  The 
Recipient shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
Page  13
12 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
