Document of
The World Bank FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 297lb-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HONDURAS
August 6, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worldi Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   =  Lempira (L)
US$1.00         = L 2.00
L               = US$0.50
L 1,000,000     = US$500,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                        British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)      2   =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km ) =  0.386 square mile
1 hectare (ha)            =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2.205 pounds
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ADT         -  Average Daily Traffic
CABEI       -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CIDA        -  Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR    -  Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
CONSUPLANE  -  Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica
DGH         -  Directorate General for Highways
DGM         -  Directorate General for Maintenance of Highways and Airports
DGT         -  Directorate General for Transport
ENP         -  Empresa Nacional Portuaria
FNH         -  Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
IHCAFE      -  Instituto Hondureno del Cafe
INFOP       -  Instituto Nacional de Formacion Profesional
MTPU        - Mechanical Training Production Unit
RTPU        -  Road Training Production Unit
SECOPT      -  Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas
y Transporte
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
UN/OPE      -  United Nations Office of Project Execution
USAID       -  US Agency for International Development
voc         -  Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd         -  Vehicles Per Day



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .................................                1
A.   General .       ........... .................1............ 
B.   The Transport System ............................               1
C.   Transport Planning, Coordination and Financing ..               3
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ............ ....................               5
A.   The Highway Network ........... ..     .................        5
B.   Traffic Growth and the Road Transport Industry  ..              5
C.   Highway Administration             6....................        6
D.   Highway Planning and Financing . .................              7
E.   Highway Engineering * ............ .................            8
F.   Highway Construction ..... ........... .. .. ........... .      8
G.   Highway Maintenance and Training             ................   9
H.   Feeder Roads ....................................              11
III.   PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE
HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ......       ............................       12
A.   Past Projects ............          .......................    12
B.   Ongoing Projects ......  .........  ............... .          13
IV.   THE. PROJECT ..........................................              14
A.   Objectives and Description of Project Components               14
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing           .....................   20
C.   Implementation ..................................              22
D.   Procurement and Disbursements ...................              22
E.   Monitoring .......         ...............................     23
F.   Project Risks ......         .............................     24
G.   Environmental Impact .....          .......................    24
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................................               24
A.   Feeder Roads Program .....         .......................     25
B.   Improvement of Secondary Roads ..... .............             25
C.   Highway Maintenance Program .....................              26
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................               28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Honduras in December 1979 and March 1980. The mission comprised Messrs.
Lars Nordin (Economist), Raul Paraud (Engineer), Andrew Mackie (Equipment
Specialist/Consultant) and Rodolfo Elmore (Engineer/Consultant). Messrs.
Giuseppe Morra (Training Specialist), Enrique Pinilla (Engineer) and Ossi
Rahkonen (Economist) participated in the preappraisal mission in October 1979.
The report htas been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
1.1  Areas of Major Valleys ..................................       30
1.2   Urban Population Centers - 1978 .............. 0 ...........   31
1.3  Honduras National Railway:  Traffic and Finance 1970-1979       32
1.4  Dry Cargo Traffic at Principal Ports 1970-1979 .33
1.5   Passenger and Cargo Traffic at Major Airports 1970-1979        34
1.6  Public Investments in Transport 1972-1979        ....           35
2.1  Development of the Highway Network 1960-1979        ..          36
2.2   Highway Investment Program 1980-1984        ........           37
2.3 Road User Charges 1972-1979 .38
2.4   Condition and Age of Maintenance Fleet 1979 .39
4.1   Design Standards for Secondary and Feeder Roads ..........     40
4.2   Staffing of the Feeder Roads Section and Field Offices
1981-1984             ...........................  ....      41
4.3   Road Condition of DGM Network (1980) .....................    42
4.4   Estimated Recurrent Budget Requirements for Maintenance
Program  1981-1984  ..... ........... .... ....................  43
4.5   Tentative List of Maintenance and Training Equipment
to be Procured under the Project ....     ...................  44
4.6  Maintenance Personnel to be Trained ...........     o ........  45
4.7  Training of Maintenance Personnel - Capital and
Technical Assistance Expenditures  o .... o .  ..............    46
4.8   Training Component - Recurrent Expenditures ......... ......    47
4.9  Tentative Disbursement Schedule ........................        48
5.1   Summary Presentation of Feeder Roads in Group I .......        49
5.2   Example of Economic Return Calculation for Feeder Roads      50-52
5.3   Benefit/Cost Streams for Improvement of
Secondary Roads  ........................ ... ............   53
5.4   Sensitivity Analysis for Improvement of
Secondary Roads ...........    ............................  54
5.5  Road Conditions without Highway Maintenance Program
1981-1984 ...      ..........................................    55
,5.6   Road Conditions with Highway Maintenance Program 1981-1984     56
5.7  Average Daily Traffic 1977 and Annual Growth Rates              57
5.8   Estimated Average Daily Traffic for Period 1980-1984           58
5.9 Vehicle Operating Costs 1980 .59
5.10  Vehicle Operating Costs with and without Highway
Maintenance Program 1981-1984 .60
5.11  Hours Saved and Time Cost Savings .......................      61
5.12  Economic Return Analysis for Highway Maintenance Program
1981-1984 ..........................   o ..............    62
ANNEXES
1  Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
Highway Maintenance ...............  o.......... ......... .  63
2  Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
the Training Program for Road Maintenance Personnel   ...    70
3  Evaluation of Feeder Roads in the Guayape Valley  ....... o..   78
4  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File...   88



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
CHARTS
1 - World Bank 21177 - Organization Chart of the Secretariat for Commu-
nications, Public Works and Transport
2  -  World Bank 21179 - Organization Chart of the Directorate General
for Highways
3  -  World Bank 21178 - Organization Chart of the Directorate General
for Maintenance of Highways and Airports
4  -  World Bank 21595 - Four-Year Training Program 1981-1984 - Implementation
Schedule
5  -  World Bank 21596 - Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 14823R - Honduras - Main Highway Network






I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2
1.01      With its 112,088 km , Honduras is the second largest country in
Central America (Map IBRD 14823R). Land suitable for agriculture represents
about 25% of ithe total area and is located in several valley systems (Table 1.1)
and in the northern coastal plain. Forest production is largely concentrated
in the Olancho area and extending north. Coffee is produced in the hilly
areas of central and western Honduras between 700 and 1,200 meters above sea
level. Cattle raising is common in central and western Honduras and the north-
eastern coastal plain. Banana plantations are located in the Sula valley and
the northern coastal plain.
1.02      Honduras' population in 1978 was about 3.4 million (Table 1.2);
two-thirds of this population live in rural areas and one-third in the
cities. Tegucigalpa is the capital and administrative center with a 1978
population of 410,000. The second largest city, San Pedro Sula with a 1978
population of 315,000, is the industrial center of the country with about half
of the manufacturing output. San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa together are
estimated to account for 75% of all manufacturing in 1979.
1.03      Agricultural and industrial developments in Honduras have been
dominated by the Sula valley and the northern coastal strip with a regional
economy centered on San Pedro Sula some 60 km from the main port of Puerto
Cortes on the Atlantic coast. The largest valley, Aguan, also faces the
Atlantic coast in the northeast and will soon be connected with the rest of
the country by modern roads. It has good soils and rainfall and offers good
prospects for agricultural development. The Guayape valley in the center of
the country to the east of Tegucigalpa is connected with the capital by a road
which was recently paved under the Seventh Highway Project, and its further
development will be secured by agricultural and rural roads projects now being
implemented under the Guayape Regional Development Project. The Choluteca
valley, although historically important, has less potential because of insuf-
ficient rainf'all.
1.04      The primary road network connects all major producing areas with
the capital and with the ports. Future transport will essentially be directed
at supporting the full development of the regional economies of the valleys.
The continuing development of secondary and feeder roads is necessary to support
increased production and to improve the living conditions of the peasants and
the farmers.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.05      Distances in Honduras are relatively short and the terrain is rugged,
which has resulted in an almost total reliance on roads and road transport,
except in thes northern coastal strip where railways specializing in banana
transport opesrate.  The primary road network is centered around the cities of
San Pedro SuLa and Tegucigalpa.  Most of the important agricultural areas have
all-weather road access to major urban areas and to ports.



- 2 -
1.06      The development of the primary road network has virtually been
completed, and the emphasis is now focused on secondary and feeder road
development and on proper maintenance programs to protect past investments
in the road network. Ongoing and planned feeder road programs are centered
on the development of areas with agricultural potential. The Highway Subsector
is discussed in full in Chapter II.
(ii) Railways
1.07      Three narrow gauge railways operate in the north serving primarily
the banana plantations in the Sula valley and the northern coastal strip.  Their
combined total length is 992 km.  The Government-owned Ferrocarril Nacional
de Honduras (FNH) connects the Atlantic port of Puerto Cortes with San Pedro
Sula and the upper Sula valley.  Its total network is 203 km.  FNH transports
sawn timber and agricultural imports and exports.  The former Tela Railway
operates a 343-km network and serves the plantations of the eastern Sula
valley and part of the coastal strip. It is connected with both Puerto Cortes
and the banana pier at the port of Tela and was acquired by the Government in
1975 from the United Brands Company in Tela. Finally, the former Standard
Fruit Railroad is a 446-km network serving banana plantations on the coastal
strip between Tela and Balfate and using the port of La Ceiba as the outlet
for banana exports. This railway is also owned by the Government, but,
because of its 0.91 m gauge, there is no connection to the other two railways
that have a 1.07 m gauge. Basically a viable operation, the railways suffered
from Hurricane Fifi in 1974, which caused large amounts of damage and reduced
banana shipments from damaged plantations. The resulting heavy operational
deficits in 1974 and 1975 have since decreased, and a net operating surplus
was achieved in 1979 (Table 1.3). With captive banana traffic, basically
better suited for railways than for highways, and simple operation, the
railways should be able to avoid deficit problems while keeping tariffs at
a reasonable level.
(iii) Ports
1.08      There are four ports on the Atlantic coast:  Puerto Cortes, Tela,
La Ceiba, and Puerto Castilla.  On the Pacific coast, there is a deepwater
anchorage at Amapala on the island of El Tigre and a new mainland port at
San Lorenzo. All ports are operated by the National Port Authority (Empresa
Nacional Portuaria (ENP)), a semiautonomous Government organization which was
so successful in developing the port of Puerto Cortes that it was later
directed to manage all ports.
1.09      Excluding liquid cargo, the ocean-borne foreign trade of the country
increased from 1.5 million tons in 1975 to 2.6 million tons in 1979 after
recovering from the decline in 1974 and 1975 due to Hurricane Fifi (Table 1.4).
Export tonnages dominated by bananas and timber are almost three times as
great as import tonnages. In 1978, bananas were 52% of export cargo while
timber was 19%. Import tonnages are more evenly distributed among machinery,
foodstuffs, chemical products, fertilizer, grain, paper and manufactures.



- 3 -
1.10      Puerto Cortes is the principal port of the country, accounting for
1.6 million tons or 63% of dry cargo in 1979. La Ceiba followed with 21%,
mostly bananas. Tela accounted for 10%, again mostly bananas, while San
Lorenzo handled 6%, most of which was timber. Puerto Castilla does not yet
handle traffic of any significance, but is likely to take over banana traffic
from La Ceiba once it is linked by road with the plantations. La Ceiba
is not well sheltered and has insufficient depth for modern ships. The
construction of the new port at Puerto Castilla will be completed in late
1981 to handle the increasing Aguan valley traffic as well as the output
from the timber and chip mill at Corocito. The new port of San Lorenzo was
completed in 1978 and will continue to serve as a major timber outlet; it will
also handle expected sugar and molasses exports from the Choluteca valley.
Puerto Cortes will continue to be the main port of Honduras since it faces
Europe and North America, is well sheltered, and has good facilities and road
connections to the rest of Honduras and other Central American countries.
(iv) Air Services
1.11      The two major private airlines, SAHSA and TAN, have merged, and
their operations have been consolidated. They now provide domestic service
and international service to New Orleans, Managua, San Jose, Panama, Miami,
Belize and Mexico City. There are also two smaller airlines (Aerovias
Nacionales de Honduras and Lineas Aereas Nacionales) providing domestic
service to 13 cities, including the Bay Islands.  Starting in April 1980, a
foreign airline, Air Florida, is also providing Tegucigalpa and SaLn Pedro Sula
with international service to Miami.
1.12      The Villeda Morales international airport at San Pedro Sula has a
good runway of 2,800 m, but the Toncontin international airport at Tegucigalpa
is less satisfactory, with only a 1,930 m runway, barely-adequate for modern
jets. A new airport for Tegucigalpa near Talanga is being discussed, but is
not likely to be of high priority in the Government's investment program.
With the completion of the Western Highway and the road between Tegucigalpa
and San Pedro Sula, domestic air traffic declined after the peak year of 1969
since private automobiles and a good intercity bus and truck service have
diverted a large portion of air traffic, especially between Tegucigalpa and
San Pedro Sula. Total air traffic is given in Table 1.5.
C.   Transport Planning, Coordination and Financing
1.13      The Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas y Transporte
(SECOPT) is responsible for highway planning. The major basis for highway
investment planning is the Bank-financed 1978-1987 Highway Master Plan pre-
pared in 1977 by consultants (TAMS, USA). The economic analysis of projects
is well understood within SECOPT, and the road investment program is increas-
ingly well justified on the basis of engineering and economic feasibility
studies. However, SECOPT still has limited capacity for identification
and selection of projects based on specified criteria and for across-the-
board planning.  For this reason, full sector lending is not yet feasible.
The present project was prepared as part of a five-year highway inlvestment
program which will be updated and reviewed periodically in the course of
project implementation (para 2.13).



- 4 -
1.14      Port planning is the responsibility of ENP, a semiautonomous
organization under SECOPT. ENP has developed a rolling five-year plan that
includes economic, engineering and financial analysis. A modern management
structure, together with fringe benefits such as subsidized housing and
training programs, has enabled ENP to retain competent staff and upgrade
younger staff.
1.15      The railways (FNH) are also a semiautonomous organization under
SECOPT, which handles a rather stable operation specializing in moving bananas
to the Atlantic ports with little traffic growth. FNH planning is thus
largely limited to forecasting revenues and operating expenses. Its capital
budget is small, and its planning staff is adequate.
1.16      Airport planning is the responsibility of SECOPT, but receives and
requires little attention since distances are short and road transport has
largely overtaken the need for planning new investment in domestic airports.
1.17      Highways and ports consume most of the transport investments in
Honduras and require continuous planning. Highways accounted for 72% and the
ports for 27% of the 1979 budget expenditures for transport (Table 1.6).
The substantial increase in highway investments in 1978 and 1979 was due
mainly to the construction of the Bank-financed Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas
road.
1.18      The Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica (CONSUPLANE) prepares
the five-year investment plan for Honduras in close cooperation with the
different Ministries. CONSUPLANE deals with intersectoral as well as intra-
sectoral matters, such as those within the transport sector. The Transport
Division within CONSUPLANE and the Sectoral Planning Unit within SECOPT have
been supported by foreign and national advisers over the last few years
since it was not possible to recruit enough qualified personnel to staff both
institutions. Technical assistance has played an important role in strengthen-
ing the transport sector planning effort. Both institutions are now function-
ing largely without technical assistance.
1.19      Highways dominate the transport sector, and intermodal considerations
are not a major concern. Whatever coordination is required among roads,
airports and the semiautonomous railroads and ports is handled through ad hoc
meetings or direct contacts among the heads of the agencies.
1.20      In view of the large investments in the El Cajon hydroelectric
project within the five-year investment program for Honduras, the Government
is aware of the need for careful investment planning. It has, therefore, in
consultation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Bank, estab-
lished an overall investment ceiling, and, based on a Bank review of sectoral
investment plans, it appears that the overall program provides good inter-
sectoral balance.



Ii. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      The total length of the road network in Honduras in Ij79 was about
8,540 km, of which 1,610 km were paved (Table 2.1).  A major effort to
expand the roatd network was started in the mid-1950s; by 1960, there were
about 3,230 km of roads, of which only 110 km were paved. The genesrally rough
topography of the country, characterized by several mountain ranges, makes the
development of the road infrastructure difficult and expensive.  There are
road connections among the main population centers and with the neighboring
countries, although the sparsely populated area of the east has few roads.
Several road projects are under way to cross the mountains to connect the
southern and the northern network; all productive areas will then be linked by
an all-weather road network. The backbone of the existing network is the
north-south road which, starting at the San Lorenzo Port on the Pacific
Ocean, passes through Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, reaching the port
of Puerto Cortes on the Caribbean Sea.
2.02      The Government is aware that, with the primary system practically
completed, it should concentrate on the expansion and improvement of the
secondary and feeder road systems so that the road network as a whole could
fulfill its development purposes. The Highway Master Plan (December 1977)
confirmed thal: emphasis in the future should be on small-scale improvements,
with special attention to deferred maintenance and construction of new low
standard roads to serve agricultural areas. The National Transport Plan for
the period 1979-1983, prepared by the Government, reflects the recommendations
of the Highway Master Plan.
B.   Traffic Growth and the Road Transport Industry
2.03      During the decade from 1968 to 1978, there was a steady growth
of road transport. The vehicle fleet grew by 190% from 24,750 to 71,980.
The heavy increase led the Government to enact a Land Transport Law in February
1976, permitting the regulation of freight and passenger transport to organize
the transport industry in Honduras and to improve its competitiveness in the
region.
2.04      The law is being followed, and detailed regulations have been
prepared by the Directorate General for Transport (DGT) in SECOPT. The
regulations enacted so far include, on the passenger transport side, fares,
routes, entry, capacity, and vehicle types. For freight transport, the
registration and vehicle weight control have been regulated.
2.05      The passenger transport service by bus is excellent, with modern
equipment, frequent service and moderate tariffs. Freight transport service
is also good, and the competition is keen. Local freight transport is
dominated by independent owner operators, while companies and cooperatives
compete for regional and international traffic.



- 6 -
2.06      Enforcement of regulations regarding weights and dimensions started
in 1977 following the construction of 13 weighing stations along the main
routes with assistance from the Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(CABEI). Overloading of trucks has since gradually been reduced, and DGT
now estimates overloading to be between 10% and 25% as opposed to between 30%
and 60% before 1977. Further improvements are expected, and, during negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that it would continue the control of weights
and dimensions of vehicles using the national roads so that they would be kept
within the limits provided by the laws and regulations of Honduras.
C.   Highway Administration
2.07      SECOPT (Chart 1) is in charge of planning, designing, constructing
and maintaining all roads in the country, except for a few roads being built
by the Instituto Hondureno del Cafe (IHCAFE) to connect the coffee plantations
with the main network and by the Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(COHDEFOR) for forestry development. SECOPT's highway activities are carried
out through two general Directorates: the Directorate General for Highways
(DGH, Chart 2), which designs and constructs roads, and the Directorate General
for Maintenance of Highways and Airports (DGM, Chart 3), which maintains the
main road network.
2.08      SECOPT normally engages consultants for design and supervision of
construction. DGH coordinates the consultants' activities from Tegucigalpa.
Maintenance works are carried out by force account by DGM through eight
maintenance districts.
2.09      Over the last three years, the Government undertook a number of
reforms in highway administration such as improvement of highway maintenance
practices and strengthening of planning. Improvements in highway administra-
tion are being achieved with the assistance of individual consultants or
consulting firms. For instance, (a) a Highway Master Plan has been prepared
and is being widely used for highway investment planning; (b) a training
program for highway personnel, which started under the Seventh Highway Project,
would be expanded substantially under the present project; and (c) consultants
(GITEC, Germany) have been engaged to carry out studies for reorganizing DGH
and its soils and materials laboratories and for improving operations of the
local construction industry.
2.10      The improvement of the highway administration is somewhat hampered
by the low salary scales for civil servants, which has caused many of the
qualified and trained staff of SECOPT to leave for better opportunities
in the private sector. Under the Seventh Highway Project, SECOPT agreed
to prepare a plan of incentives to retain and attract qualified personnel.
2.11      The financial implications of a revision of the salary scales
for SECOPT personnel have far-reaching effects for the whole public sector
and would run against current efforts to keep the lid on public expenditures,
especially recurrent operating expenses. In order to retain an adequate
number of engineers and technicians, SECOPT has been authorized to contract
qualified personnel at higher salaries than those paid to the civil servants.
SECOPT's yearly budget includes a global amount for this purpose. In 1979,
out of a total of 70 engineers and 55 engineering students engaged in high-
way works, SECOPT had 17 engineers and five engineering students employed on



- 7 -
this basis. Considering the constraints mentioned above, the present arrange-
ments can be considered adequate. The covenant of Loan Agreement 1341T-HO/
1342-HO (Seventh Highway Project) concerning SECOPT staffing is thus substan-
tially complied with. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would consult periodically with the Bank to ensure continued adequate staffing
of SECOPT.
D.   Highway Planning and Financing
2.12      The highway planning process has improved over the years by having
the Highway MaLster Plan as one of the main bases for selection and programing
of projects. The next important improvement would be to provide systematic
collection of traffic data to support continuing planning. The 13 weighing
stations throughout Honduras are equipped with traffic counters, and DGT
is preparing administrative procedures for the systematic collection and
evaluation of traffic data. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that SECOPT would establish a countrywide system of traffic counts by
January 1, 1982. Updated traffic data is a necessary input to the continuous
improvement of' highway planning.
2.13      The current highway investment program (Table 2.2) takes into
account overall funding limitations for the period 1980-1984. The program
shows a considerable decline in new construction as well as an absolute
reduction in highway investments starting in 1982. The program is well
balanced and correctly reflects the increased emphasis on small scale improve-
ments, with special attention to deferred maintenance and construction of new
low standard f'eeder roads. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that it would exchange views annually with the Bank on the continuing appro-
priateness of the highway investment program. The Government also confirmed
that SECOPT would update the Highway Master Plan by June 30, 1983.
2.14      Road users paid taxes and user charges at about L 29 mill-ion in
1979, of which fuel taxes accounted for some L 16 million (Table 2.3).
Road maintenance expenditures in 1979 were about L 19 million, but are pro-
jected to increase in the future (para 4.13). The retail price of gasoline
is L 3.60 (US$1.80) per gallon and, for diesel fuel, it is L 2.10 (US$1.05)
per gallon, about average for Central America and above the average world
price. The Bank is financing a petroleum pricing and taxation study under the
Petroleum Expl]oration Promotion Project. This study is expected to provide
the Honduran Government with the basis for achieving an adequate petroleum
products pricing system. The level of road user charges is broadly adequate,
covering all r ecurrent highway maintenance expenditures as well as some 10% of
the capital expenditures in 1979. The objectives for the next five years are
for full coverage of recurrent expenditures and an increasing share of capital
expenditures as construction of major projects declines. The Government is,
for budgetary reasons, anxious to increase its revenues from the hiLghway
subsector and is considering the implementation of a road toll system where
the traffic warrants. Moderate tolls on the most trafficked roads would not
be detrimental. The potential inefficiencies of the collection system have
been discussed with the Government. All allocations for highway expenditures
are channeled through the normal budgetary process, and there is no road fund
or earmarking of road user charges.



-8-
E.   Highway Engineering
2.15      Highway design work is partially carried out by local or joint
ventures of local/foreign consulting firms and partially by DGH. The consult-
ing industry has grown substantially in the last, few years, and now there are
several competent local highway design firms. With the increased activity and
strengthening of the local firms, the foreign firms, which, until the early
1970s, dominated the industry, are being progressively phased out; at present,
they are used mainly as advisers or for very specialized studies.
2.16      In order to reduce costs, and in view of the increasing demands
of highway designs, DGH has expanded its highway design department so that
a substantial portion of the design work is now being carried out directly
by DGH staff or by independent engineers who have their own survey crews and
are contracted on the basis of km of final designs per month. The latter
procedure has proved to be effective and economical.
2.17      DGH has a set of geometric design standards for road construction
which takes into account the type of terrain and the traffic; these standards
have been coordinated with those agreed upon for the five Central American
countries. The use of seismographic methods has been established to improve
soil investigations, and the results have been provided to the contractors
for their estimates. In addition, Loan 1341T-HO/1342-HO finances laboratory
equipment for strengthening the Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula laboratories.
The latter has been completed, but the Tegucigalpa laboratory building is
not expected to be completed until 1981. Consultants GITEC (para 2.09) are
assisting DGH in preparing the list of equipment to be purchased.
F.   Highway Construction
2.18      Highway construction is generally carried out by unit price contracts
awarded through competitive bidding. Some minor improvements and construction
of feeder roads are performed by force account. The total investment in 1979
for force account works was estimated at L 5.5 million, or about 5% of the
total highway expenditures.
2.19      The Honduran Chamber of the Construction Industry has registered
some 11 local firms specialized in highway works with working capacities
ranging froTm US$50,000 to US$500,000 per year; in addition, there are a
nj-.aber of -Fmall firms that carry out minor bridge, culvert and earth works.
There  r' -- jso about six foreign and joint ventures of local/foreign firms
with permanent offices in Honduras that normally submit bids and obtain
contracts for major construction works. Honduras has no restrictions against
foreign contractors bidding for Government-financed contracts. Contractors
may import equipt-nt and materials free of customs duties, but the equipment
must be re-exported upon completion of contracted works; if it remains in the
country, customs duties must be paid. Supervision of construction of externally
financed works is normally carried out by consultants, while Government-financed
works are usually supervised by DGH staff.
2.20      Registration and prequalification of local and foreign contractors
are normally required for highway works. The "Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles"
maintains a register of contractors, and, for the submission of bids, a



- 9 -
certificate of registration from the "Colegio" is required. This rule applies
to both local and foreign contractors; the latter have not had any problems
regarding their registration.
2.21      The construction industry is facing a number of problems generated
in part by the uneven flow of Government funds for highway works an,d the long
delays in payment to the contractors. The Bank, under Loan 1341T-H0/1342-HO,
is financing a study by consultants GITEC to identify the construction
industry's problems and to recommend solutions. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that the consultants' recommendations would be given due
consideration and that it would advise the Bank, by June 30, 1981, of its
proposed actions resulting from these recommendations.
G.   Highway Maintenance and Training
(i) Highway Maintenance
2.22      SECOPT is aware of the importance of good maintenance of its road
network, and, in order to increase the efficiency of maintenance operations,
DGM was reorganized as a separate directorate in early 1976.
2.23      Routine highway maintenance is carried out by DGM by force account
through its eight maintenance districts (Chart 3). Each district has its own
technical staff, equipment and limited repair facilities; when major equipment
repairs are needed, they are carried out in the two regional workshops in
Tegucigalpa an,d San Pedro Sula. The Tegucigalpa workshop has been recently
expanded with a new building, and the new San Pedro Sula regional workshop
was substantiaLlly completed in May 1980. Loan 1341T-HO/1342-HO provides for
equipment for both workshops. Since the completion and operation of the San
Pedro Sula workshop are essential for the proper repair of the equipment in
use or to be used in northern Honduras, disbursements for all maintenance
equipment and spare parts under the present project would be made conditional
upon the workshop being in operation.
2.24      The main problem facing DGM is the shortage of maintenance equipment,
for which international lending agencies have made limited contributions
(IBRD US$1.0 million in 1961, IDB US$2.6 million in 1971, Export-Import Bank
US$1.2 million in 1973 and IBRD US$2.8 million in 1976). These amounts,
coupled with some suppliers' credits and limited budgetary allocations, provided
DGM with its current fleet, which is aging because of intensive use and inadequate
repair systems. The present fleet, comprising about 690 units, has an average
age of seven years: about 363 units are in working condition, 55 need minor
repairs, 174 require major repairs, and 98 should be scrapped (Table 2.4).
The above figures reflect the lack of preventive maintenance, resulting in an
average availability of equipment between 40% and 50%. The average level of
annual purchases of maintenance equipment for 1977-1980 has been albout
L 1.6 million which, considering the age of the fleet, was not sufficient
for the replacement of wornout units. The project would provide for financing
of the renewal and expansion of the fleet (para 4.14). In addition, procedures
for systematic equipment renewal would be established (para 4.17) for future
purchases. Budgetary allocations would be substantially increased to carry out
SECOPT's maintenance program (para 4.13).



- 10 -
2.25      For proper operation of the maintenance equipment, the timely supply
of spare parts is essential, and such supply has been slow. The main bottlenecl-
is the fact that all Government supplies have to be procured through a Central
Supply Office in Tegucigalpa. Since it appears that excluding this office from
procurement of Bank-financed goods may not be feasible within the Honduran
procedures, the Government, in May 1980, decided to create within SECOPT a
branch of the Central Supply Office to expedite the purchase of spare parts.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that SECOPT would, by January 1,
1981, define the functions and operating procedures for this branch and there-
after monitor the performance and inform the Bank.
2.26      During recent years, DGM has been under pressure to assist local
authorities in the maintenance of many local roads and other public works
(schools, market places, dikes, etc.). Scarce maintenance equipment has been
diverted to these works, thus upsetting the implementation of planned mainte-
nance programs. The Government recognized the need for a special capacity to
support local authorities and, in late 1978, created the "Regional Development
Boards" (Juntas Regionales de Desarrollo) for which equipment worth about
US$5.5 million has been purchased and special funds have been allocated (the
1980 allocation is US$1.25 million); the operation of the equipment and
supervision of the works are under the control of DGM.
2.27      Another important measure to alleviate the burden on DGM was taken
in December 1979 through Presidential Decree No. 0720; in essence, the Decree
states that a road can be accepted by DGM for maintenance only when it is
fully completed. This saves DGM from having to take responsibility for
partially or poorly built roads undertaken by local authorities.  In the long
run, the measure not only will bring about an improvement of the condition of
the road network, but also will facilitate the maintenance of new roads.
2.28      In early 1978, SECOPT contracted consultants Roy Jorgensen Associates
Inc. (USA), under the Seventh Highway Project, to assist in improving mainte-
nance planning and management. The consultants' main tasks were to (a) estab-
lish a pilot district in which the system would be tested; (b) establish a system
of preventive maintenance for equipment; (c) organize the workshops; and (d) pre-
pare an inventory of existing equipment and, on that basis, prepare lists of
maintenance and workshop equipment needs. Improvement of field maintenance
operations in the pilot region has been completed and is being extended to the
other maintenance districts. However, the equipment preventive maintenance and
the workshop organization program have been only partially implemented because
of the shortage of funds and delays in completing the workshop rehabilitation
program. The project would provide additional technical assistance, including
training, to complete the upgrading of SECOPT maintenance practices.
(ii) Training
2.29      SECOPT senior level staff are generally capable, but low and middle
level personnel are not always sufficiently trained and often use inefficient
work methods. All current SECOPT training activities are carried out by



- 11 -
DGM's Training Department (established under the Sixth Highway Project) and
by INFOP (Instituto Nacional de Formacion Profesional), which carries out
basic training for workshop personnel (para 4.21). Although SECOPT's Training
Department activities have been hampered by a shortage of funds, instructors
and training equipment, the Department has been active in preparing 16 audio-
visual courses Aiud one self-instructional manual and in showing training films
to road foremen, equipment operators, mechanics, welders and unskilled workers.
These presentations were followed up by field sessions of practical application
conducted by supervisors. In addition, some short training courses for
engineers, automechanics and electricians have been carried out through
private firms. The training activities developed by DGM over the last three
years would be substantially strengthened and expanded under the project
(paras 4.18 to 4.21).
H.   Feeder Roads
2.30      In 1976, the Bank and the Government entered into an agreement
for promoting and testing labor-based construction methods under the "Substitu-
tion of Equipment for Labor" research  project supported by nine Bank member
countries. For this purpose, in 1976, the Bank provided a grant of US$200,000
and also a US$200,000 allocation under the Sixth Highway Project.  The pilot
program carried out over the 1976-1978 period not only showed that new construc-
tion techniques could be developed for labor-based feeder road works but also
demonstrated the social impact of these works.  With the assistance of consul-
tants GITEC, the Government constructed about 170 km of feeder roads between
1977 and 1978, all located in the southwest region (Choluteca) where the
population density is high and the incomes are low.
2.31      The growing interest of the Government for the above-mentioned type
of works was demonstrated in early 1978 when a new Depart-ment of Labor-Based
Road Construction was created under DGH. The Bank, in view of the success of
the program, reallocated US$1.0 million, under the Seventh Highway Project, for
financing the construction of about 280 km of additional feeder roads during
1979-1980. These roads are located in the same southwest region in which the
pilot project was developed and are proceeding satisfactorily. Maintenance of
the feeder roads constructed using labor-intensive methods is satisfactorily
carried out following the same methods.
2.32      With the expansion of feeder road construction to less densely
populated valleys where unemployment and poverty are less pronounced, more use
of equipment and greater reliance on small contractors is appropriate. Domestic
contractors will carry out most of the works. However, labor-based construction
will continue over the next few years, financed by the Government, IDB and USAID.
2.33      The Government's concern to improve rural access has to be seen in
the context of overall agriculture and rural development policies of the
country. It is intimately connected with the Land Reform Act of 1975, a key
program of the Government, which enables the land to be divided once it is
served by transport infrastructure.



- 12 -
III. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Past Projects
3.01      In 1955, a loan of US$4.2 million (135-HO) was made to finance the
reorganization and strengthening of the Highway Department, including some
maintenance equipment and technical assistance. Three years later, a loan
of US$5.5 million (195-HO) was made, primarily to reconstruct the main roads
between San Pedro Sula and Puerto Cortes, and between Tegucigalpa and the
Inter-American Highway. This project also included the construction of
bridges on the Western Highway between Chamelecon and Santa Rosa to make
the highway passable during the rainy season. All work under these projects
was successfully completed.
3.02      The first IDA Credit of US$9 million (1-HO) was made in 1961 to
finance (a) improvements of sections of the Western Highway between Chamelecon
and Santa Rosa to gravel standard and the construction of an extension to the
highway from Santa Rosa to the El Salvador border; (b) construction of feeder
road connections with the Western Highway; (c) continued technical assistance
for highway maintenance initiated under the first loan; and (d) a highway
transportation survey to prepare a long-term road investment program. The
survey was carried out by Stanford Research Institute, and the report was
issued in 1962. The extension of the Western Highway was completed in 1964,
and other construction works were completed in 1967.
3.03      In 1965, a credit of US$3.5 million (71-HO) and a loan of US$6 million
(400-HO) were made to finance reconstruction of the North road from Tegucigalpa
to Potrerillos; works were completed in 1971. The Operations and Evaluation
Department (OED) Audit Report (No. 641 dated February 20, 1975) concludes that
the North Road Project was successful and broadly met its objectives; the
Audit Report recommended more frequent supervision, mainly in the early stages
of implementation.
3.04      In 1967, a loan of US$8.6 million (495-HO) was made to finance
(a) reconstruction of the remaining sections of the Western Highway and paving
over its full length and (b) feasibility studies for feeder roads and for the
Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa road. Feasibility studies were completed in 1970, and
reconstruction and paving works were completed in 1972. The OED report (No. 672
dated March 27, 1975) concludes that, although the reconstruction of the
highway proceeded well and the quality of the works was good, the closing of
the border with El Salvador resulted in an important decline of traffic. This
development, together with cost overruns, reduced the rate of return of the
project to a level which, in retrospect, made the investment questionable;
however, the project road did help to connect the region with the rest of
the country.
3.05      In 1973, a loan of US$18.8 million (896-HO) was made to finance
(a) reconstruction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road; (b) improvement of a
secondary road and 80 km of feeder roads; (c) economic and technical studies
for about 330 km of feeder roads; (d) technical assistance for transport
planning; and (e) a training program for the staff of the Highway Department.



- 13 -
The reconstrucl:ion of the iegucigalpa-Talanga road (the main project compo-
nent) was comp'Leted on schedule in February 1979, and the other project
components, except for minor engineering works scheduled for completion in
May 1980, have also been completed. The cost of civil works came quite
close to appra:Lsal estimates, which made it possible to allocate some of
the unused contingencies to assist in urgent rehabilitation of sGme 250 km of
roads in the Atlantic coastal region to repair the damages caused by Hurricane
Fifi in September 1974. The Completion Report on the Sixth Highway Project is
dated January 23, 1980; it concludes that the project was successful and met
its main objectives. The Project Performance Audit Report is being prepared.
B.   Ongoing Projects
3.06      Loan 1341T-HO/1342-HO, amounting to US$35.0 million, was signed on
December 16, 1976 and comprises the following:
(i)  The reconstruction, including paving, of the Talanga-Juticalpa-
Catacamas road (about 155 km). Works are expected to be completed
on schedule by the third quarter of 1980;
(ii)  Purchase of maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment.  The
maintenance equipment has been purchased and the purchase of
workshop and laboratory equipment is now under way with the exception
of equipment for the Tegucigalpa laboratory, which is being delayed
pending the completion of appropriate facilities for its installation;
(iii)  Consulting services for:
(a) preparation of a Highway Master Plan - completed in
late 1977;
(b)  technical assistance to DGH and DGM, including training
for engineers and technicians and fellowships abroad.
The technical assistance to DGM and the training program
are being carried out; the assistance to DGH started in
January 1980;
(c) technical assistance to DGH for the local construction
industry; study is in progress; and
(d) studies in the area of influence of the Talanga-JutiLcalpa-
Catacamas road in the Guayape Valley, with a view to the
integrated rural development of the area. The study
originally contemplated under this project is being car-
ried out with financing from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), and, therefore, the avai;Lable
allocation of US$500,000 will be utilized over the period
1980-1981 for a feasibility study of an irrigation project
in the Telica area of the Guayape Valley, which wou:Ld be
complementary to the general rural development program in the
area.



- 14 -
3.07      The Seventh Highway Project is 80% completed.  Current estimates
of completion costs are quite close to appraisal estimates. The project
initiated considerable advances in maintenance; these advances, however, have
to be pursued and consolidated. The project was revised to include the
1979-1980 tranche of SECOPT's program for the improvement of rural roads
through labor-intensive methods (para 2.31).
3.08      Loan 1576-HO (Guayape Regional Development Project), amounting
to US$10.5 million, was signed on June 16, 1978 and included an amount of
about US$0.9 million for the construction of some 35 km of feeder roads to
ensure all weather connection between farms and the existing secondary road
network. Road construction and maintenance have begun.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Description of Project Components
4.01      The project, the components of which are included in the National
Transport Plan and thus form part of the National Development Plan, supports
the following main project objectives:
(a)  to facilitate the access to and from rural areas through better
secondary and feeder roads;
(b)  to protect past investments in the highway network through
improvement of maintenance operations; and
(c)  to continue the institutional improvements undertaken under
previous projects to strengthen highway administration and
maintenance to meet the requirements of the expanding road
transport subsector.
4.02      The project comprises the following components:
(a)  construction of about 350 km of feeder roads to be built within
selected agricultural valleys;
(b)  improvement of about 115 km of secondary roads;
(c)  purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment, including spare
parts;
(d)  technical assistance for implementing a maintenance management
system for scheduling and controlling the maintenance activities;
and
(e)  technical assistance for training DGM staff.
These components are described in detail below.



- 15 -
(i) Feeder Roads Program 1981-1984
4.03      The Htonduran Government is embarking on a large feeder roads
program (about 500 km per year) to improve rural access. This program is
well coordinated with the ongoing efforts in the agricultural sector to
increase agricuLtural production.  The program is assisted by USAID, IDB,
and the World Bank. In order to minimize the risk for overlapping, close
cooperation has been established between the Government and the lending
institutions. This cooperation has resulted in an agreed regional as well as
time separation of the works to be financed by the different agencies. The
Bank would finance some 350 km of feeder roads under the project, half of which
(in the Guayape, Yoro and La Masica valleys) have already been selected and
evaluated. The remainder would be selected and evaluated following the metho-
dology presented below (para 5.03). IDB would finance road works in the
Comayagua, Yoro and La Masica valleys, and, in the the latter two, an under-
standing has been reached that IDB would handle the early part of the program
and the Bank the later. USAID would finance road works in other vaLleys in the
western part oi the country. Because of the importance of the feeder roads
program and the Bank's interest in maintaining a dialogue on labor-based
techniques, the Government confirmed during negotiations that it would exchange
views with the Bank annually on the status of its entire feeder roads program
and on the operations of the Department of Labor-Based Road Construction.
4.04      The subprogram included under the project would be implemented as
follows: Group I would comprise the construction of about 165 km of roads
located in the three valleys (Guayape, Yoro and La Masica), for which engineer-
ing and economic evaluation have been completed. Since the roads would be
constructed to low standards (Table 4.1), "minimum" engineering has been
prepared by the Design Department of DGH, providing an adequate basis for
cost estimates and contract documents. The economic evaluation was prepared
by DGH and consultants GITEC in cooperation with the Ministry of Natural
Resources and CONSUPLANE.
4.05      The remaining roads, totaling about 185 km, would be defined in agree-
ment with the Bank, using the methodology for the economic evaluation developed
by GITEC for Group I. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that,
by December 31, 1980, and each June 30 thereafter, it would submit to the Bank
for comments the list of feeder roads to be constructed in the following year,
including their final engineering and economic justification.
4.06      The subprogram would be managed by a special Feeder Roads Section to
be created within DGH's existing Project Unit carrying out the implementation
of the Seventh Highway Project. Field operations would be supervised by
offices to be created within the section, one for each valley. The project
would finance vehicles for this supervision.  The tentative staffin,g of the
Feeder Roads Section and of the field offices, all to be financed by SECOPT,
is shown in Table 4.2. A condition for disbursement under the feeder roads
component requires that the Feeder Roads Section has been establishLed and
that a civil engineer, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank, has been appointed as its head.



- 16 -
(ii) Improvement of Three Secondary Roads
4.07      The project comprises the improvement of three existing secondary
roads which are included in the Government's 1980-1984 program and were
selected by SECOPT as high priority investments. The alignment generally
follows the existing roads except for a few realignments which were required to
improve winding or dangerous sections. The design standards for the roads are
shown in Table 4.1. A general description of the roads follows.
4.08      The Rio Dulce-El Porvenir Road (48 km).  This road branches off from
the Rio Dulce Bridge, close to the town of Talanga, on the Bank-financed
Tegucigalpa-Catacamas road. The engineering has been prepared by INGECO, a
local consulting firm, with financing provided under Loan 896-HO. At present,
the traffic runs over an old track which requires improvement; the horizontal
alignment is generally good except for a section about 2.6 km long where a re-
alignment is proposed. For the remaining 45.4 km, the alignment follows the
existing road. However, because some sections of the road are flooded during
the rainy season, the grade would be raised on these sections and a complete
drainage system would be built. The existing bridges would be utilized, and a
0.15 m gravel sub-base would be laid.
4.09      The Danli-Santa Maria Road_(47 km).  The project road starts at the
City of Danli which is connected with Tegucigalpa by a recently completed
two-lane paved road. The project road, when improved, will facilitate the
existing traffic conditions and contribute to the development of the adjacent
agricultural valleys. The topography of the area is generally flat except for
a section of about 10 km in mountainous terrain. Detailed engineering for the
road was prepared in 1976 by local consultants CONASH; realignments totaling
about 14 km to improve difficult sections are included in the project. All
existing bridges would be utilized, and the necessary additional drainage
works would be carried out. Because of the substantial differences of traffic
volumes along the road, it has been subdivided into two well defined sections
with different design standards. A description follows:
(a)  Danli-Puente Los Almendros Section (29 km).  This section, where
the present traffic volume is relatively high (about 900 vpd),
would be upgraded from gravel to a double bituminous surface
treatment; a 10 m wide platform would be built with a 7 m wide
surface. The traffic drops substantially before reaching the bridge
over the Los Almendros river; therefore, this one-lane bridge which
has a total span of 102.00 m would not be widened at this stage.
(b)  Puente Los Almendros-Santa Maria Section (18 km).  The traffic
volume going to Santa Maria and intermediate points is substantially
lower than that in the first section (about 300 vpd); therefore, the
design standards for this second section have been reduced. A 7.00 m
platform would be built and the present earth surface would be
upgraded to gravel standards.
4.10      The Telica-San Francisco de La Paz Road (20 km).  The initial 6 km
of this road are rather mountainous, but the topography becomes flat and roll-
ing thereafter. A 7.70 m platform would be built, a gravel sub-base would be
laid and some missing culverts would be built. Realignments have been pro-
posed for the initial mountainous section and for the stretches of road with



- 1, -
smooth topography where , realignment would substantially improve the traffic
conditions without causing unduly high cost increases. The engineering has
been prepared by Cerna y Maier, a local consulting firm, with financing pro-
vided under Loau 896-HO.  Telica, the starting point of the project road, is
located along the Bank-financed Juticalpa-Catacamas road in the Ol<ncho region.
It is envisagetd that a good cross-country connecting road will nave to be
built in the f'uture to provide safe transport between the north and the
Guayape valley. The improvement of the Telica-San Francisco de La Paz
road would be the initial step toward such a connecting road. IDB is assisting
in the financing of roads and forestry development projects in the northern
region, and the Bank is financing the construction of the Puerto Castilla Port
which will be the outlet for the production of this area.
(iii) Four-Year Maintenance and Training Program (1981-1984)
(a) The Maintenance Program
4.11      The development of highway maintenance capacity is a long-standing
objective of Bank lending to Honduras. The maintenance components of previous
projects have helped to build up DGM's organization and to establish its
logistic support system. Maintenance requirements are expanding because of
the growth in the length of the network and in the volume of the traffic, and
are also chanlging in scope; the network is aging and more attention has to be
given to pavement resealing and rehabilitation. The proposed project would
expand the capacity of DGM and give particular emphasis to increasing its
efficiency through better management, better use and upkeep of equipment, and
training of personnel. The road inventory prepared in 1979 indicates that
the maintenance network for which DGM is responsible comprises 6,460 km and
would grow by almost 40% to 8,960 km by 1984.
4.12      Over the last two years, SECOPT has developed and adopted a mainte-
nance management system (para 2.28) for scheduling and controlling its annual
program of maintenance activities. The improved procedures were tested
in Maintenance District No. 1 and are being introduced countrywide. The
project would support the introduction of the system and its conscilidation
throughout DGM's organization. The system covers routine maintenaLnce only,
but would be expanded to cover periodic maintenance also when the districts
have acquired the needed technical expertise in programing activities.
4.13      The implementation of an annual maintenance program would require the
level of funding shown in Table 4.4. The 1980 approved budget of L 20.8 million
is based on a detailed working program prepared by the consultants, and the
1981-1984 figures resulted from projecting the expenditures consiclering a
gradual improvement and a moderate expansion of the road network.
The total forecast expenditures are as follows:
In Lempiras
Year                              January 1980
1981                              26.9 million
1982                              26.9 million
1983                              27.6 million
1984                              27.5 million



- 18 -
4.14      The expansion and renewal of the equipment fleet would be a basic
factor for the improvement of maintenance operations and the success of the
proposed project. Net additional requirements were obtained from an analysis
of the condition of the existing fleet and the capacity required annually to
carry out the specified level of activities. The present project would com-
prise the purchase of the recommended list of maintenance equipment which,
including the training equipment (para 4.20), amounts to a total of US$8.4 mil-
lion (Table 4.5); spare parts for preventive maintenance totaling US$1.57 mil-
lion; US$0.93 million worth of spare parts for equipment rehabilitation;
and US$0.13 million for additional workshop equipment. The amounts required
for spare parts and workshop equipment have been determined on the basis of
tentative lists prepared by SECOPT and consultants.
4.15      To assist SECOPT in carrying out the maintenance and training prog-
rams, the present project would provide for the financing of a specialized
consulting firm that would continue and expand the technical assistance prog-
ram initiated under the Seventh Highway Project. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it would engage specialized consultants to assist in
carrying out the maintenance and training programs under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Draft terms of reference for consultants are given
in Annex 1.
4.16      In view of DGM's urgency for rehabilitating some equipment units to
carry out maintenance operations through 1980 and mid-1981, before the Bank-
financed equipment is expected to be available, SECOPT obtained, under a recent
USAID loan, an allocation of US$750,000 for rehabilitation of about 50 equipment
units, to be carried out through the workshops of the local equipment dealers.
4.17      The Government does not have an established policy for periodic
renewal of maintenance equipment, and this renewal has normally been financed
through loans from international agencies (para. 2.24). This pattern of lump
renewal is not conducive to continuity in maintenance operations. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that, by January 15, 1982, it would
submit to the Bank for comments a proposal for systematic funding for the
renewal of maintenance equipment starting from January 1, 1983.
(b) The Training Program
4.18      The four-year (1981-1984) program would continue training activities
undertaken under the Sixth and Seventh Highway Projects and would be especially
addressed to road foremen, equipment operators, drivers and mechanical staff.
The program aims at improving the productivity of some 700 staff (Table 4.6)
and includes the strengthening of SECOPT's Training Department, the establish-
ment of a Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) for the training of road
foremen and equipment operators/drivers and a Mechanical Training Production
Unit (MTPU) for the training of mechanical personnel, the purchasing of
training equipment and materials, the recruitment of training specialists and
instructors, the organization of seminars for middle and high level maintenance
staff, and a short course abroad for three staff members of the Training
Department.



- 19 -
4.19      Training of foremen would be carried out mostly in the field by
adopting a system of training through production. RTPU would be set up to
implement training while, at the same time, carrying out rehabilitation/mainte-
nance operations on specific road sections within SECOPT's annual maintenance
program. The trainees assigned to RTPU would thus be trained under actual
working condi..ons.  Training of mechanics would be conducted mostly at MPTU
in the Las Torres regional workshop in Tegucigalpa. In addition to some
general courses, the training of mechanical staff is focused on the repair of
worn and broken-down equipment, under the supervision of experienced mechani-
cal instructors, thus enhancing SECOPT's equipment maintenance capabilities
and raising the level of equipment availability. SECOPT would be required to
provide adequate spare parts for the training of mechanics throughout the
duration of the program.  Seminars on different topics related to maintenance
management, accounting and administration would be conducted periodically
for middle and high level maintenance staff by technical assistance experts.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would establish and
equip RTPU and MTPU by June 30, 1981 and would provide adequate funds for
their operation in line with the estimated requirements given in Tables 4.7
and 4.8.
4.20      Limited physical training facilities would be built at Las Torres
regional workshop for the training of mechanics. Training equipment and mate-
rials varying from heavy items, such as a motor grader, a loader, and a roller,
to workshop equipment and tools and audio-visual training aids, would also be
provided through the loan. All the training activities would be coordinated
by the Training Department, which would initially be assisted by seven expatri-
ate specialists (a training adviser, the chief of RTPU, the chief of MTPU,
and four instructors). SECOPT would assign, as counterparts, two senior tech-
nicians (RTPU and MTPU), two chief mechanics, two senior equipment operators,
and one warehouse instructor. They would work closely with the training
specialists, and it is expected that they would take over after the specialists'
assignment is completed to follow up and consolidate action taken during the
four-year program. The terms of reference for technical assistance services
for training are in Annex 2. To foster the necessary coordination, it is
expected that one consulting firm would provide the technical assistance for
maintenance and training under two separate terms of reference. Chart 4 shows
the proposed implementation schedule for the training program to be financed
under the project; this schedule and the above terms of reference were reviewed
and agreed with the Government during negotiations.
4.21      By a Decree dated December 1972, the Government created the Instituto
Nacional de Formacion Profesional (INFOP) as a center to carry out and supervise
all training activities in the country. Since INFOP has not yet the installed
capacity for training all levels of personnel, SECOPT and INFOP have agreed
that the training of road foremen, operators and skilled mechanics; would be
carried out through SECOPT's Training Department and under the technical
assistance component of the project.



- 20 -
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.22      The total cost of the project  is estimated at US$40.84 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$28 million (about 69%) that would
be financed through a Bank loan of US$28 million and a local component of
US$12.84 million to be financed by the Government. In addition, the Govern-
ment would support an increased level of operating expenditures for main-
tenance (para 4.13). UNDP has been consulted on the possibility of providing
funds for the technical assistance component, but funds could not be made
available in time for this project.
4.23      A summary of project costs is shown on the following page.  The
estimated costs of the secondary roads (average cost US$80,000/km) are based
on completed engineering studies and current unit prices for similar works;
the costs for feeder roads (estimated on average at US$20,000/km) are based
on completed engineering studies for half of the roads, with the resulting
average cost applied to the overall length. These average costs/km are
considered reasonable. The costs for road maintenance equipment, including
spare parts, have been estimated on the basis of detailed lists prepared by
consultants. These costs include local preparation and delivery charges but
exclude import taxes. Because even the fuel and lubricants are tax exempt for
project works, the local tax content of the project cost is negligible. The
cost estimates for consulting services are based on recent contracts awarded
for similar works as well as on man-month rates for similar services provided
by Hondurans or joint ventures of Honduran and foreign firms.
4.24      The foreign exchange component for the improvement of secondary
roads was estimated at 60%. For the construction of feeder roads, which are
likely to be constructed using various labor/equipment mixes, the estimated
foreign exchange component was 50%. For consulting services for super-
vision of construction, it was estimated at 50%, assuming a limited foreign
participation, and, for the technical assistance component, it was estimated
at 80% because of a larger foreign participation. For the supervision of
construction, technical assistance and training components, the estimated
expenditures are for 350 man-months of services by foreign consultants and
220 man-months by local consultants, for a total of US$3.8 million equivalent
or an average cost of US$6,700 per man-month. The foreign consultant costs
average US$8,900 per man-month for salary and benefits, overhead and air fares.
Local consultant fees are US$3,000 per man-month. The training component
includes three fellowships abroad for professional staff at a cost of US$8,000
each. The various consulting services would require a total of about
570 man-months. The foreign exchange component for the purchase of equipment
and spare parts was estimated at 90% assuming that transportation, storage
and other charges could amount to 10% of total costs.
4.25      A physical contingency of 10% has been included to cover increases
in road construction or rehabilitation quantities. About 25% of the project
base cost has been calculated for foreign and local price contingencies over
the implementation period for equipment, civil works and consultants, assuming
inflation rates as shown at the bottom of the cost table.



- 21 -
Project Cost Estimates
Estimated
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreigl   Total   Exchange
(Lempiras Millions)            (US$ U-lllions)           %
A.  ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND
IMPROVEMENT
1.  Construction of 350 km
of feeder roaLds            7.00      7.00    14.00    3.50       3.50      7.00       50
2.  Improvement of Secondary
Roads
(a) Rio Dulce-El Porvenir 1.30        2.00      3.30    0.65      1.00      1.65       60
(b) Danli-Santa Maria       4.60      7.00    11.60    2.30       3.50      5.80       60
(c) Telica-San Francisco
de La Paz              1.36     2.04      3.40    0.68       1.02      1.70       60
3. Supervision of civil works
(a) Engineering Services  1.62        1.60      3.22    0.81      0.80      1.61       50
(b) Vehicles                0.02      0.18     0.20    0.01       0.09      0.10       90
Subtotal            15.90    19.82    35.72    7.95         9.91    17.86
B. MAINTENANCE PRO3GRAM (1981-1984)
1.  Equipment and Spare Parts
(a) Maintenance equipment   1.58    14.30    15.88    0.79          7.15      7.94       90
(b) Training equipment        0.10      0.80      0.90    0.05      0.40      0.45       90
(c) Spare parts for pre-
ventive maintenance       0.32      2.82      3.14    0.16      1.41      1.57       90
(d) Spare parts for rehab.
of equipment              0.18      1.68      1.86    0.09      0.84      0.93       90
(e) Workshop equipment        0.02      0.24      0.26    0.01      0.12      0.13       90
Subtotal             2.20    19.84    22.04    1.10         9.92    11.02
2. Technical Assistance
(a) For road maintenance    0.50        1.96      2.46    0.25      0.95      1.20       80
(b) For training program    0.30        1.24      1.54    0.15      0.65      0.80       80
Subtotal             0.80      3.20      4.00    0.40       1.60      2.00
Base Cost (Jan 1980)   18.90    42.86    61.76    9.45    21.4:3    30.88
C. CONTINGENCIES
(a) Physical (10% of A)       1.60      1.98      3.58    0.80      0.99      1.79       55
(b) Escalation (25% of base
cost + C(a))              5.18    11.16    16.34    2.59        5.58      8.17       68
Subtotal              6.78    13.14    19.92    3.39        6.57      9.96
Total               25.68    56.00    81.68   12.84    28.00    40.84
Price Adjustment as follows:
Civil works, equipment and technical assistance:  1980           10.5%
(local and foreign components)                        1981        9.0%
1982        8.0%
1983-84    7.0%



- 22 -
C.   Implementation
4.26      SECOPT would be responsible for project implementation through its
Directorates as follows:
(a)  DGH for the construction of feeder roads and improvement of
secondary roads as well as supervision of construction. For the
feeder roads component, the supervision would be carried out by DGH,
but consultants would be engaged for supervising the improvement of
secondary roads.
(b) DGM for carrying out the maintenance and the training programs
with technical assistance provided under the project.
4.27      As shown in the schedule presented in Chart 5, the project would
be implemented over the four-year period 1981-1984. Bids for the construction
or improvement of roads could be invited in late 1980 so that actual construc-
tion works could start in early 1981. The project implementation schedule
was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
D.   Procurement and Disbursements
4.28      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank
"Guidelines for Procurement." The maintenance and training equipment, totaling
about US$11.0 million, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). However, contracts with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and
within an overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be advertised locally in accord-
ance with SECOPT regulations, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Spare parts
for specific makes of equipment would be procured directly from established
dealers under the same regulations for individual orders-of less than US$50,000.
Contracts for the purchase of goods amounting to US$50,000 equivalent, or
less, would be reviewed ex-post by the Bank. About 30 contracts of that size
would fall under this limit, representing about 15% of the corresponding
project expenditures.
4.29      Feeder roads works totaling about US$7.0 million would be carried
out by local contractors or by DGH's field offices, using equipment rented
from local equipment owners submitting bids for such rental. This method has
been implemented successfully in a USAID-financed feeder roads program and in
a Bank-financed regional development project, both in the Guayape Valley.
Contracts for improvements of secondary roads, totaling about US$9.1 million,
would be awarded through ICB among prequalified contractors. Because the
roads to be improved are located far apart and would be executed concurrently,
separate bids would be invited for the Rio Dulce-El Porvenir road (total cost
about US$1.65 million), the Telica-S.F. de La Paz road (total cost about
US$1.7 million), and the Danli-Santa Maria road (total cost about US$5.8
million). Contracts for civil works amounting to US$200,000 or less would be
reviewed ex-post by the Bank. Their number is roughly estimated at 30% of the
total, representing about 15% of the corresponding project expenditures.
During negotiations, the bidding and contracting arrangements for the civil
works component of the project were discussed and agreed with the Government.



- 23 -
4.30      Consultants for supervision of construction of the secondary roads
would be engaged under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  This
was agreed during negotiations. The technical assistance services for the
maintenance and training programs would be the continuation of the works now
under way under the Seventh Highway Project and would continue to be carried
out by expatr.'tes.  The personnel training program for maintenance would
rely upon a group of expatriates who would prepare Honduran personnel to
follow up on the program.
4.31      Project expenditures eligible for disbursement from the Bank loan
would be as follows:
(a) 55% of total expenditures for (i) civil works for the construction
of iEeeder roads; (ii) civil works for the improvement of secondary
roadLs; and (iii) consultant services for supervision of civil
works;
(b) 80% of total expenditures for the consultant services for technical
assistance for the maintenance and training programs; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for (i) the purchase of equipment,
vehicles, spare parts and workshop tools; and (ii) seminars and
training abroad.
4.32      No retroactive financing is provided.  A tentative disbursement
schedule is given in Table 4.9; disbursements would be made against normal
documentation. The closing date would be June 30, 1985.
E.   Monitoring
4.33      The progress of the project would be monitored against the implemen-
tation schedules and financing requirements established at appraisal. In
addition, the following indicators would be monitored to assess advances
toward the project objectives:
(a) utilization of maintenance equipment;
(b) implementation of the annual maintenance programs for routine and
periodic maintenance leading to improved road standards according
to the physical targets shown in Table 5.6;
(c) budgeting of adequate funds for the maintenance and civil
works programs;
(d) number of trainees participating in the personnel training
program to achieve the targets shown in SECOPT's report on
the maintenance component, dated November 1979 (Table 4.6);
and
(e) traffic surveys to be carried out periodically on the
primary, secondary and tertiary road systems as comparedL with
appraisal projections.



- 24 -
The purpose of project indicators and the scope of related reporting require-
ments were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
F.   Project Risks
4.34      The improvement of secondary roads does not involve any special
risk; the engineering has been completed and the construction industry is able
to carry out works of the proposed size. The construction or improvement of
350 km of feeder roads involves a certain amount of risk because SECOPT is
embarking on a large feeder roads construction program (1981-1984) which could
exceed DGH's capacity for carrying out this type of work; the risk has been
dealt with by dividing the feeder roads among the three executing units for
IDB, USAID and Bank works (para 4.03), by providing additional staffing of
DGH (para 4.06), and by annual reviews of SECOPT's entire feeder roads program
(para 4.03). The implementation of the maintenance component should not
involve special risks since the project provides the necessary equipment for a
good maintenance of the road network as well as a strong component of technical
assistance to ensure that road maintenance and equipment operations are
carried out according to the programed activities. In view of current fiscal
constraints in Honduras, there is some risk that counterpart funds for the
project, as well as funds for recurrent maintenance expenditures, may not be
provided in a timely manner. The requirements for funds have been carefully
analyzed with planning and financial authorities to comply with the overall
fiscal program, and the details of annual budgetary requirements were confirmed
during negotiations. The funding risk would also be lessened by close monitor-
ing and by the agreed annual review between the Bank and the Government of the
overall investment program and its financing prospects (para 2.13).
G.   Environmental Impact
4.35      The road maintenance and the road improvement components of the
project are expected to have a beneficial environmental impact since they would
control soil erosion through proper drainage works on roads already existing.
The feeder roads component would open new roads, often along existing tracks.
A negative environmental impact might be expected in road sections passing
through mountainous terrain, and SECOPT would ensure that special attention
would be paid to drainage work in order to minimize soil erosion.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The main components of the project, i.e., the feeder roads program,
the secondary roads, and the maintenance program, are distinct in scope and
objectives and are, for that reason, treated as three different projects, each
with its own analysis and economic return given below. All of them form part
of a well balanced highway investment program (para 2.13), while the feeder
roads program is also intimately connected with the Government's agricultural
and rural development policies (para 4.03).



- 25 -
A.   Feeder Roads Program
(i) General
5.02      The feeder roads component (about 23% of the project) to be financed
by the Bank consists of some 350 km to improve rural access to areas with
predominantly small farms and to facilitate the transportatiorn of mainly
agricultural produce to the market. Because of the keen competition in the
transport industry (para 2.05), most of the benefits resulting from reduced
transportation costs are expected to be passed on to the rural population.
The population would also benefit from improved access to schools, health and
other public facilities.
(ii) Road Selection and Economic Justification
5.03      The identification of roads proposed for Bank financing in the
three valleys selected by the Ministry of Natural Resources (Guayape, La Masica
and Yoro) was based on a screening and ranking system developed jointly by
CONSUPLANE, SECOPT, the Ministry of Natural Resources and GITEC, consultants
employed by DGH. The system is based on field data for population, road
density and aLgricultural production and takes into account economiLc, distri-
butive and scocio-political factors. In total, some 50 roads were studied, out
of which less than half passed the screening procedures and were ranked high
enough to be subject to the final economic evaluation. The criterion for
final project: selection was that the economic rate of return shouLd at least
equal the opportunity cost of capital in Honduras, estimated at some 11%. The
benefits included in the evaluation were: (i) producer surplus from increased
agricultural production; (ii) cost savings to non-agricultural goods traffic;
and (iii) timae savings for passenger traffic. The benefit and cost streams
were analyzed over a 10-year period.
5.04      Results of the economic evaluation are summarized in Table 5.1 for
Group I roads (para 4.04), while examples of the more detailed calculations
undertaken for individual roads are given in Table 5.2. Except for two or
three marginal cases, all roads have substantial positive net present values,
and the economic rates of return typically exceed 20%. An important part
of the benefits consists of producer surplus, and Annex 3 outlines the basis
for these estimates for roads located in the most important valley - Guayape.
Similar evaluations were also undertaken in other project valleys.
(iii) Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
5.05      The switching values at which the economic rates of return for the
roads as a group would be less than 11% are either a cost increase of 135% or
a decrease in benefits of 60%; both changes are far above any reasonably
expected variation in the key parameters used.
B.   Improvement of Secondary Roads
(i) General
5.06      The secondary roads to be improved (about 35% of the project) are
included in the National Transport Plan and have been subjected to feasibility
studies based on costs obtained from detailed engineering and beriefits estimated
from actual traffic counts.



- 26 -
(ii) Project Benefits
5.07      The project benefits considered consist of vehicle operating cost
savings as a result of improved road standards. Although not quantified by the
consultant who did the analysis, the time cost savings for commercial vehicle
operators as a result of increased average speed over the roads are an additional
benefit and would thus further increase the economic returns given below. The
vehicle operating costs with and without the project were calculated separately
for passenger cars, buses and trucks over good, fair, and bad road conditions
for flat, rolling and mountainous terrain. The traffic forecasts and corres-
ponding benefit streams for vehicle operating cost savings are given for each
road in Table 5.3. Typically, the improvements of the project roads have been
estimated to result in a reduction of vehicle operating costs for cars (L 0.29
per km) by 33%, for buses (L 0.47 per km) by 35% and for trucks (L 0.78 per km)
by 41%. Reductions in vehicle operating costs to existing traffic and its
normal growth represent by far the largest benefit component (91% of total
benefits). Benefits to generated traffic (9% of total) have been estimated in
the conventional manner as half of the cost reductions accruing per vehicle-km
for existing traffic. The benefits from cost savings are likely to go ini-
tially to transporters, but, because of the keen competition in the transport
industry, it is expected that, over time, most of the benefits will be passed
on to the rural population served by these roads. The users will, in addition,
benefit from the improved level of transport services.
(iii)  Project Costs
5.08      For the purposes of calculating the economic return, total project
costs have been adjusted by excluding price contingencies.
(iv) Economic Justification
5.09      Based on the above costs and benefits, the economic returns for the
three roads are calculated as follows:
Economic Return
Rio Dulce-El Porvenir                             18%
Danli-Santa Maria                                 16%
Telica-San Francisco de la Paz                    18%
(v) Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
5.10      A standard sensitivity analysis was performed by increasing the
costs by 10%, decreasing the benefits by 20%, and a combination of the two.
The results are shown in Table 5.4 and indicate that, under the worst circum-
stances considered, i.e., a simultaneous increase in costs by 10% and decrease
in benefits by 20%, the economic return drops to its lowest value, 13%, for the
Danli-Santa Maria road, which is still well above the 11% opportunity cost of
capital.
C.   Highway Maintenance Program
(i) General
5.11      The economic evaluation of the maintenance and training program
(about 42% of the project) compares total maintenance costs and road user
costs with and without the project. The analysis of the program covers



- 27 -
the period from 1980 to 1984, assuming that, after 1984, the Government
would budget as current expenditures the expenses necessary to replace the
equipment units annually as their economic life expires (para 4.17). In the
economic evaluation, the residual value of the new equipment under the project
has been deducted at the end of year 1984.
(ii) Road Network and Condition
5.12      Using the results of the DGM road condition survey, all principal,
secondary and feeder roads were classified according to three surface types
(paved, gravel and earth) and within each type according to levels of surface
condition (good, fair and bad) (Table 4.3).
5.13      Road conditions would improve or deteriorate depending on the
resources available to routine and periodic (major) maintenance activities
according to the Maintenance Management System developed by SECOPT and its
Consultants. Without the proposed maintenance program, DGM would continue
to pursue its minimum maintenance policy, and, gradually, the road conditions
would change from 50% good, 30% fair and 20% bad in 1980 to 35% good, 30% fair
and 35% bad in 1984. With the maintenance program, road conditions would
improve to 64% good, 20% fair, and 16% bad. The distribution of the network
by type of road and surface condition between 1980 and 1984 with and without
the maintenance program is shown in Tables 5.5 and 5.6.
(iii) Vehicle Operating Costs
5.14      Based on traffic data given in the Highway Master Plan, the 1977
average daily traffic and growth rates were calculated (Table 5.7) and the
traffic broke!n down by road and vehicle types for the years 1980-1.984
(Table 5.8). The vehicle operating cost for each type of vehicle over each
type of road was calculated based on the extensive analysis made in the
Highway Master Plan and updated to January 1980 cost level by applying the
actual cost increases since 1977 to each component making up the vehicle
operating cost, i.e., fuel, lubricants, tires, spare parts, vehic:Le costs and
labor. The resulting vehicle operating costs are given in Table 5.9.
(iv)   Maintenance Costs
5.15      About 55 different maintenance activities were analyzed by frequency
and cost for different road types to establish the maintenance costs with and
without the project. These costs were based on the resources required for
each activity for labor, equipment and material and calculated according to
the Maintenance Management System developed by the consultants.
(v)   Economic Justification
5.16      The economic benefits from the maintenance program are the savings in
vehicle operating costs due to the gradually improved road standards and the
time cost savings for commercial vehicle operators. The vehicle operating cost
savings (Table 5.10) were derived from the above road standards (Tables 5.5 and
5.6), the corresponding vehicle operating costs (Table 5.9) and the annual
traffic (Table 5.8). Similarly, the time cost savings were estimated from the



- 28 -
increase in average speeds and an application of the average wage rates for
operators to the resulting time savings for commercial vehicles (Table 5.11).
Matched with the economic costs of the program, the above benefits produce a 70%
economic return, or 63% without time cost savings (Table 5.12).
(vi)   Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
5.17      The sensitivity of the economic return to a number of variations to
the benefits and costs was tested. The results, shown in Table 5.12, indicate
that the economic return would drop to 19% under the worst circumstances
considered, i.e., an increase in cost by 25%, a decrease in benefits by 25%
and excluding time cost savings. The risk of this happening is considered
small, and the economic return remains highly satisfactory.
5.18      Because of the composiiton of the project, the calculation of an
overall economic return for the whole project is not possible. However, for
the secondary roads and the maintenance program, which are fully defined and
which constitute 77% of the total project, an overall economic return would be
about 47%. The project is well justified.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a)  to continue the control of weights and dimensions of vehicles using
the national roads so that they would be kept within the limits
provided by the laws and regulations of Honduras (para 2.06);
(b)  to consult periodically with the Bank to ensure continued adequate
staffing of SECOPT (para 2.11);
(c)  to establish a countrywide system of traffic counts by January 1, 1982
(para 2.12);
(d)  to exchange views annually with the Bank on the continuing appro-
priateness of the highway investment program (para. 2.13);
(e)  to update the Highway Master Plan by June 30, 1983 (para 2.13);
(f)  to give due consideration to the recommendations of the consultants
engaged for the review of the construction industry and to advise
the Bank, by June 30, 1981, of its proposed actions resulting from
these recommendations (para 2.21);
(g)  to define the functions of, and operating procedures for, the branch,
within SECOPT, of the Central Supply Office by January 1, 1981 and,
thereafter, to monitor the performance for the purchase of spare
parts and inform the Bank (para 2.25);
(h)  to exchange views annually with the Bank on the status of its
entire feeder roads program and on the operations of the Department
of Labor-Based Road Construction (para 4.03);



- 29 -
(i) to submit to the Bank for comments, by December 31, 1980 and each
June 30 thereafter, the list of feeder roads to be constructed in
the following year, including their economic justification (para 4.05);
(j)  to engage specialized consultants to assist in carrying out the
maintenance and training programs under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (para 4.15);
(k)  to submit to the Bank for comments, not later than January 15, 1982,
a proposal for systematic funding for the renewal of maintenance
equipment starting from January 1, 1983 (para 4.17);
(1) to establish and equip RTPU and MTPU by June 30, 1981 and to provide
adequate funds for their operation in line with the estimated require-
ments (para 4.19);
(m) to carry out the project according to the agreed implemen-
tation schedules (paras 4.20 and 4.27);
(n) to carry out the civil works component of the project according to
the agreed bidding and contracting arrangements (para 4.29);
(o)  to engage consultants to supervise the construction of the
secondary roads under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.30); and
(p) to monitor progress of the works on a continuing basis according to
the agreed project indicators and to meet reporting requirements
(para 4.33).
6.02      The following would be conditions for disbursement for the corres-
ponding components of the project:
(a) disbursement for all maintenance equipment and spare parts would
be subject to the San Pedro Sula workshop being in operation
(para 2.23); and
(b)  disbursement for the feeder roads component would be subject to
the Feeder Roads Section being established and a civil engineer,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, being
appointed as its head (para 4.06).
6.03      Subjiect to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$28.0 million equivalent. The term would be 20 years, including a five-
year grace period.
August 6, 19i80



- 30 -                              TABLE 1.1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Areas of Major Valleys
Valley                Area Km                 % Total
Aguan                  2,288.2                  21.9
Sula                   1,840.0                  17.6
Guayape                1,160.0                  11.1
Choluteca                973.0                   9.3
Agalta                   605.6                   5.8
Paulaya                  580.0                   5.6
Comayagua                533.8                   5.1
La Masica                688.1                   6.6
Siria                    363.8                   3.5
Talanga                  329.1                   3.2
Nacaome                  322.0                   3.1
Yoro                     270.6                   2.6
Jamastran                261.3                   2.5
Danli-El Paraiso         214.4                   2.1
Total           10,429.9                  100.0
Source:  Ministerio de Recursos Naturales - Planning Directorate - 1979
April 1980



TABLE 1.2
- 31 -
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Urban Population Centers - 1978
1978 Urban
Department                       Population               Main City/Town
(1000 Hab.)
Francisco Morazan                    410.3                 Tegucigalpa
Cortes                               315.2                 San Pedro Sula
Atlantida                             81.9                 La Ceiba
Yoro                                  64.0                 El Progreso
Comayagua                             54.5                 Colmayagua
Choluteca                             47.4                Choluteca
Olanchc                               33.6                Juticalpa
Other                                176.1
Total Urban                   1,183.0
Total Rural                   2,256.0
Total National                3,439.0
Source: Unidad de Analisis Demografico, Depto. Estadistica, CONSUPLANE
April L980



- 32 -                                 TABLE 1.3
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Honduras National Railway: Traffic and Finance 1970-1979
1/
Total-/          Net
Total       Operating      Operating
Year       Cargo        Passengers    Revenues         Expenses     Deficit (-)
(Metric Tons)                  (1000 Lps.)   (1000 Lps.)   (1000 Lps.)
1970      510,359         106,769        4,130          2,753          1,377
1971      591,010         102,948        4,146          3,661            485
1972      546,724          76,051        3,410          3,624         -  214
1973      619,378          78,452        4,069          3,659            410
1974      446,348          92,991        3,264          4,277         -1,013
1975      340,932         100,398        2,408          3,449         -1,041
1976      382,991         130,118        3,910          4,526         -  616
1977      460,066         144,312        4,930          4,993         -   63
1978      385,708         160,327        4,703          4,990         -  287
1979      462,546         128,397        5,133          4,956         +  178
1/ Includes depreciation and debt service.
Source: Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras
April 1980



- 33 -                                 TABLE 1.4
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Drv Cargo -/ Traffic at Principal Ports -/  1970-1979
(Thousands of M. Tons)
Year    Pto. Cortes    Tela    La Ceiba    Amapala    Total
1970          880         210      366          128       1,584
1971       1,080          315      369           82       1,846
1972       1,069          250      374          206       1,899
1973       1,169         206       381          209       1,965
1974       1,013         215       313          168       1,709
1975       1,015         102       236          134       1,4187
1976       1,028         187       355          161       1,7:31
1977       1,300         178       415          149       2,042
1978       1,341         193       439          152       2,125
1979       1,602          268      537          155 2/   2,562
1/ Excludes petroleum and molasses.
2/ Puerto Castilla will be completed in late 1981
3/ Includes 89,000 tons for San Lorenzo
Source: Informes Estadisticos Anuales y Trimestrales -
Empresa Nacional Portuaria.
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Passenger and Cargo Traffic at Major Airports 1970-1979
------- Tegucigalpa -- ------                   ----- San Pedro Sula ------ - --- Total -------
Year       Passengers             Cargo                 Passengers               Cargo                 Passengers                Cargo
(1,000)          (1,000 Lbs.)                (1,000)            (1,000 Lbs.)                (1,000)             (1,000 Lbs.)
Dom.  Int.          Dom.      Int.           Dom.  Int.           Dom.    Int.              Dom.  Int.            Dom.    Int.
1970       142    71          10,323    8,057           139    62           9,313    7,341             281   133            19,636  15,398
1971        98    76           8,403    7,453            95    55           7,356    7,950             193   131            15,759  15,403
1972        72    80           4,967    6,369            56    53           4,242    7,360             128   133             9,209  13,729 4
1973        58    85           4,136    6,079            41    62           2,809    7,033              99   147             6,945  13,112
1974        58    97           3,356    6,862            43    66           1,982    7,327             102   163             5,338  14,189
1975        48    96           1,901    6,534            36    66           1,212    7,759             *84   162             3,113  14,293
1976        45    98           1,595    8,728            38    74              938    9,656             83   172             2,533  18,384
1977        59   113           1,341   12,091            42    81              746   12,111            101   194             2,087  24,202
1978        71   136           1,341   13,568            49    91              576   13,032            120   227             1,917  26,600
1979        62   153             750   15,871            85    88           1,476   14,012             147   241             2,226  29,883
Source:  Estadisticas de Transporte Aereo 1978
Direcci6n General de Aeronautica Civil, SECOPT
May 1980
M-
'J1



TABLE .b
- 35 -
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Investments in Transport 1972-1979
(Lempiras-Millions)
1/            1/    National 2,          2/
Year    Highways-      Airports-      Railways-      Ports-      'otal
1972        18.7           -             1.0           1.2        20.9
1973       20.7           1.8            0.3           5.3        28.1
1974       22.0           1.1            0.2          15.4        38.7
1975       34.3           0.4            2.5          10.0        47.2
1976       42.9           8.2            0.9          16.5        68.5
1977       54.5           5.7            0.2          23.1        83.5
1978      119.8           6.0            0.1          45.8       171.7
1979      114.8           2.0            0.4          43.0       160.2
Source:   l/ Boletin Estadistico SECOPT
2/ CONSUPLANE
April 1980



- 36 -                                  TABLE 2.1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network .1960-1979
(Kms)
Gravel      Paved       Gravel                Earth      Total
1960          110                 3,118                  3,228
1961           345                3,040                   3,385
1962           380                3,025                  3,405
1963           380                3,057                   3,437
1964           382       1,805                1,408      3,595
1965           407       1,852                1,380       3,639
1966          407        1,928                1,713      4,048
1967          416        1,978                1,955      4,349
1968          472        2,120                1,978      4,570
1969          622        2,102                2,004      4,728
1970           745       2,162                2,033      4,940
1971        1,168        2,988                1,433      5,589
1972        1,228        3,028               1,490       5,746
1973        1,228        3,225                1,490      5,943
1974        1,240        3,406                1,490      6,136
1975        1,327        3,670                1,598      6,595
1976        1,405        4,052                1,664       7,121
1977        1,475        4,440                1,763       7,678
1978        1,521        4,649                1,904      8,074
1979        1,609        4,699                2,235      8,543
Note:  Does not include feeder road construction by IHCAFE, COHDEFOR
and hand-labor roads construction.
1976     1977      1978
IHCAFE                     -       267 1/   179.4
COHDEFOR                   -       760 1/   200.9
Hand-labor roads          60        90        85.0
construction
1/ Total length constructed in 1975/77.
Source: Directorate General for Highways
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Investment Plan 1980-1984
Lempiras - Millions
1 9 8 0                  1 9 8 1               1 9 8 2                 1 9 8 3                1 9 8 4
Loc.    For.   Tot.   Loc.   For.   Tot.   Loc.   For.   Tot.   Loc.   For.   Tot.   Loc.   For.   Tot.
Studies                 1.2     1.8    3.0    0.5    3.6    4.1    0.3    1.5    1.8    0.5    1.7    2.2    0.1    0.9    1.0
Construction
Main & Secondary   14.0    64.8   78.8   15.2   48.7   63.9   10.2   27.1   37.3    6.2   23.0   29.2    3.9   12.0   15.9
Feeder Roads         3.7      3.0    6.7    8.6    8.2   16.8    8.1    3.6   11.7    8.8    4.2   13.0   11.7    6.9   18.6
Improvement and
Rehabilitation       15.0    39.1   54.1   24.4   44.1   68.5   18.6   30.3   48.9    7.6   15.2   22.8    8.1   17.4   25.5
Equipment               0.2     0.8    1.0    1.1    4.3    5.4    1.0    4.0    5.0    1.0    3.9    4.9    1.0    4.0    5.0
Total Investments    34.1   109.5  143.6   49.8  108.9  158.7   38.2   66.5  104.7   24.1   48.0   72.1   24.8   41.2   66.0
Source:   SECOPT, CONSUPLANE
April 1980                                                                                                                           1A
t:1
M.



TABLE 2.3
- 38 -
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges 1972-1979
(Lempiras-Thousands)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
New Vehicle Sale
Taxes                 1,655   2,244   2,891   2,131   3,266   6,216   8,096   9,554
Diesel and Gasoline
Taxes                11,325  12,639  12,080  12,829  13,987  12,946  15,256  15,846
Driving Licenses          98       64      54       40     132      143     160      123
Annual Taxes on
Vehicles              1,533   1,691   1,756   1,788   1,873   2,131   2,501  .2,729
Annual Tags              250      289     308   1,065      352      390     425      466
Registration of
Vehicles                 48       57      58       41      54       92     108      133
Inspection of
Vehicles                201      229     241      250     276      311     349      382
Total           15,110  17,213  17,388  18,144  19,940  22,229  26,895  29,233
Source:  Contaduria General de la Republica
April 1980



TABLE L.4
- 39 -
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Condition and Age of Maintenance Fleet 1979
----------------Condition----------Age in Years-------
Inventory           Major   Minor
Group             Total    Scrap  Repair  Repair  Working    0-2  2-4  4-6  6-8  Over 8
A
Earth Moving
Equipment           127        10      39       14       64         15   22   44    5    41
B
Other Equipment       102        21     17        9       55         16    7   54    1    24
C
Heavy Vehicles        266        37      79      19      131         64    2  135    9    56
D
Light Vehicles        108        13     23        6       66         24   17   27    9    31
E
Light Machinery        87        17     16        7       47          6    1   51    -    29
Total              690         98    174       55      363        125   4S9  311   24   181
18.3  7.1. 45.3  3.5  25.9
Percentage         100        14      25        8       53          25.3       48.7      26
Source: SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Secondary and Feeder Roads
Platform
Design Speed     Width    Shoulders  -M-inimum Radius          Maximum Grade
Roads                             Length km      km/m             m           m       of Curvature m                 %
F    R    M                             F      R   M            F    R    M
1.  R5o  Dulce-El Porvenir           48       80  60   40       7.0          -       210   115  50            4    7      8
2. Danli-Santa Marla
a)  Danli-Los Almendros Bridge  29        80  60   40       7.0(*)    1.50       210   115  50            4    6      8     1
b)  Los Almendros Bridge-Sta.                                                                                               
Maria                       18       80  60   40       7.0         -        210   115  50            4    6     8
3.  Telica-S. Francisco de La Paz   20        80  60   50       7.7         -        210   115  50            4    7    10
4.  Feeder Roads                    350       80  60   40       4.5         -        210   115  50            4    7    10
Copography: F = Flat
R = Rolling
M = Mountainous
*) To be paved
ource: SECOPT and Consultants
pril 1980



- 41 -                                 TABLE 4.2
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staffing of the Feeder Roads Section and Field Offices (1981-1984)
Qualifications        No.     Man-Months
A. FEEDER ROADS SECTION
(TEGUCIGALPA)
Project Coordinator, Chief of               Civil Engineer         IL         36
the Unit
Secretary                                                         IL          36
Assistants                                                         2           72
B. GUAYAPE VALLEY OFFICE 1/
Chief of Field Office                       Civil Engineer         L          36
Job Inspectors                              Foremen                3         108
Office Clerk                                                       l          36
Survey Crew                                 Technicians            :3         36
Assistants                                        -3                         108
C. LA MASICA VALLEY OFFICE 1/
Chief of Field Office                       Civil Engineer        :1          36
Job Inspectors                              Foremen               :2          72
Office Clerk                                      -1                          36
Survey Crew                                Technicians             3         108
Assistants                                                         3         108
D. YORO VALLEY OFFICE 1/
Chief of Field Office                       Civil Engineer         1          36
Job Inspector                               Foremen                1          36
Office Clerk-                                                      1          36
Survey Crew                                 Technicians            3         108
Assistants                                                         3         108
1/ The location of these offices will be changed to other selected valleys after
completing works in Grcup I (about 165 kn).
Source:   SECOPT
April 1980



TABLE 4.3
- 42 -
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Condition of DGM Network (1980)
Road Surface Condition (km)
Type of Road              Good       Fair        Bad      Total
Paved
Principal              1,323        198         73      1,594
Secondary                 82         27          2        111
Feeder                     2         24          6         32
Total              1,407         249         81      1,737
Gravel
Principal                 25        133         10        168
Secondary                596        334        110      1,040
Feeder                   801        827        609      2,237
Total              1,422       1,294        729      3,445
Earth
Principal
Secondary                210        137         68        415
Feeder                   170        288        410        868
Total                 380        425        478      1,283
Grand Total            3,209      1,968       1,288     6,465
Source: SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



- 43 -                                TABLE 4.4
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Recurrent Budget Requirements for Maintenance Program (1981-1984)
(Lempiras - January 1980)
A. Routine Maintenance      1980-/       1981         1982         1983         1984
(i) Labor              1,744,640   1,808,509   1,957,062   2,059,760   2,134,843
(ii) Equipment -        6,027,720   6,162,458   7,048,542   7,702,111   8,184,824
(iii) Materials          1,878,486   1,792,338   1,884,017   1,939,'02   1,998,572
Subtotal         9,650,846   9,763,305  10,889,621  11,701,573  12,31B,239
B. Major Maintenance                                                              -
(1) Labor                 25,549       92,720       85,490       31,900      33,444
(ii) Equipment -        1,777,214   3,296,185   2,897,522   1,433,400   1,637,136
(iii) Materials          3,838,637   5,315,752   4,422,355   4,632,500   4,717,439
Subtotal         5,641,400   8,704,657   7,405,367   6,097,800   6,388,019
C. Improvements               -          760,000      930,000   1,900,000       900,000
D. Training                 123,600      346,500      657,200      665,800      606,400
E. Administration         5,426,690   7,344,685   7,032,795   7,213,950   7,236,103
Total           20,842,536  26,919,147  26,914,983  27,579,123  27,448,761
1/ Current budgetary allocation
2/ Does not include depreciation
Source: SECOPT and consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



44                                    TABLE 4.5
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative List of Maintenance and Training
Equipment to be Procured Under the Project 1/
(At January 1980 Prices)
No. of Units            Unit        Total
Description                     Maint.    Training   Total    Price         Cost
----- US$ -----
Motor graders                      34         1          35    55,000    1,925,000
Medium size tractors                4         1           5    97,000       485,000
Pneumatic rollers                 13          1          14    20,000       280,000
Steel wheel rollers                 7         -           7    28,000       196,000
Vibrating manual rollers           34         1          35     6,000       210,000
Truck tractor units                 5         1           6    30,000       180,000
Trailers                            4         -           4    20,000        80,000
Platform trucks                    36         1          37    15,500       573,500
Dump trucks                      138          5         143    19,500    2,788,500
Asphalt tanks (trucks)              3         -           3    35,000       105,000
Water tank (truck)                  7         1           8    18,000       144,000
Patching trucks                    16         -          16    30,000       480,000
Pick-up trucks                     21         6          27    10,000       270,000
Lane marker                         1         -           1    15,000        15,000
Concrete mixer                      3         1           4     3,000        12,000
Greasing units                    19          -          19    25,000       475,000
Mobile workshops                    8         -           8    15,000       120,000
Front end loader                   -          1           1    50,000        50,000
Breakdown of costs                                        TOTAL           8,389,000
Maintenance equipment = 7,937,000
Training equipment =       452,000
8,389,000
1/ Spare p1rts for the above mentioned equipment would be financed in part
under the project item "spare parts for preventive maintenance" and in
part through annual budgetary allocations.
Source:   SECOPT and Consultant Jcrgensen
April 1980



EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Personnel to be Trained 1981-1984
CATEGORY                                              1  2  34   5  6  7  8          T  1  2  3 h   5  6  7  8   T   1  2  3  4  5 6   7  8   T    1  2 -34 45   6  7  8  T   TOTAL~
1/
Eauipment Operators (Exst.)                          10  2  4  2  6  2  4  9   39 20  6  9  5 12  4  4 12   72  20  4  4  4  9  3  4  3  51    5  3  2  4  4  -  -  3  21    183
Equipment Operators (New)                             --------                       3-           -------12--------33--------63  (111)
Drivers                                               422 24 2 22  20 94 54 9 3 4240  95 54 83 4 240  9 5 52103 33 40  140
Mechanics I-II 3/                                     1 111 1 11  32/ 102 2 2i  2 2 2 821  42 2 131 17 21   32 1-3 -1110 20   72
Mechanics III --------10    10                                                              --              --20  20         --              --I   I ---                              --       31
mechanics IV-V 3                                             ---        2  2 --                   - ----4 4--                        - ----5 5 ----- ---- 11
Road loremaen                                         5  2  2  2  2  2  2  2   19 11  4  4  3  4  4  4  2  36  1.1  4  4  3  4 4   4  -  34  11  3  5  3  4  -  -  -  27   115
Road Supervisors                                      21 1               -----4 3 12 11- 1- 10   3 -22 2 2 1-11   3 - --  32 1110   35
Accountants                                           2  1  2  1  2  1  1  4   17-------- 00---a                                                             -----                                17
Storekeepers                                          2  12  12  1  12              12  2-1  21  1  1311-------- 0-------- 0                                                                       23 
627
New Equipmaent Operators             (111)
738
I/   Includes:  Major Asphalt Operations and Plants
2/       1         Workshop (Las Torres)
3!   Personnel of Regional Workshops
Source:   SECOPT
May 1980



4  -                                 TABLE 4.7
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training of Maintenance Personnel
Capital and Technical Assistance Expenditures
Description                                          Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ Equivalent)
A.   Civil Works
1. Classrooms, offices fcr instructors
and rehabilitation of existing
facilities                                    14,000         -        14,000
B.   Training Equipment and Materials
1. Audio Visual Training Aids                        -          3,000      3,000
.2. Workshop Equipment and Tools 1/                 6,500       58,500    65,000
3. Vehicles (6 units) 2/                           6,000       54,000    60,000
4. Heavy Road Maintenance Equipment 2/            45,000      405,000   450,000
Sub-Total                                 57,500     520,500   578,000
C.   Technical Assistance
1. Training Adviser (12 months)                   19,000       77,000    96,000
2. Six Expatriate Instructors:
(a) One Chief of RTPU (24 months)              34,000      134,000   168,000
(b) One Chief of MTPU (24 months)              29,000      115,000   144,000
(c)  Four Instructors (18 months each)         72,000      288,000   360,000
3. Seminars and Fellowships                          -         24,000    24,000
Sub-Total                               154,000      638,000   792,000
D,   Spare Parts
Spare Parts for the MTPU 2/                    60,000      240,000   300,000
Sub-Total                                 60,000     240,000   300,000
Total                                    285,500   1,398,500 1,684,000 3/
1/ To be financed under the Seventh Highway Project
2/ To be financed under the equipment and spare parts
component.
3/ The total cost of US$0.80 million shown for training in the technical
assistance component in the project cost table comprises the rounding
of the cost of training aids (US$3,000) plus the technical assistance
cost (US$792,000).  The remainder of the training component amounting to
US$884,000 to reach the total of US$1,684,000 is being financed as stated
in footnotes 1/ and 2/ above.
Source: SECOPT and Consultants
April 1980



- 47 -                                 TABLE 4.8
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Component
Recurrent Expenditures
(In Lempiras - January 1980)
Description                                   1st Year  2nd Year  3rd Year  4th Year    Total
A.   Operation of Training
1. Salaries of Training Department
(current staff)                         123,000   123,000   123,000   123,000    492,000
2. Operating Expenses                         20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000        80,000
3. Materials (paper, films, etc.)             17,000    17,000    17,000    17,000        68,000
4. Salaries for Training Program
(a) Chief of IRTPU                            -      15,000    30,000    30,000        75,000
(b) Chief of MTPU (Las Torres)                -      12,000    24,000         -        36,000
(c) Mechanic Instructor                       -      12,000    12,000    12,000        36,000
(d) Operators Instructors (2)                 -      36,000    36,000    36,000    108,000
(e) Warehouse Instructor                  12,000    12,000         -          -        24,000
(f) Mechanics Instructor                      -      18,000    18,000         -        36,000
Sub-Total                       172,000   265,000   280,000   238,000    955,000
B.   Per Diem for DGM Staff
1. Chief Training Dept. (L 60 x 60)              600      1,200    .1,200        600       3,600
2. Chief of RTPU (L 40 x 900)                    -        7,200    14,400    14,400       36,000
3. Chief of MTiU ( 40 x 20)                      -          400        400       -           800
4. Mechanic Instructor (L 40 x 1.080)            -       14,400    14,400    14,400       43,200
5. Operators Instructors (2 x L 40 x 2160)    -          28,800    28,800    28,800       86,400
6. Warehouse Instructor (L 40 x 720)          14,400    14,400         -         -        28,800
Sub-Total                        15,000    66,400    59,200    58,200    198,800
C.   Operation of the RTPU (Maintaining
about 100 km per year)
1. Equipment Operation                        50,000   110,000   110,000   110,000    380,000
2. Materials (asphalt, cement, etc.)          55,QOO   110,000   110,000   110,000    385,000
3. Laborers (16 x L 6 x 365)                  17,520    35,040    35,040    35,040    122,640
Sub-Total                       122,520   255,040   255,040   255,040    887,640
D.   Operation of the MPTU (Rehabilitation
of about 10 ucnits per year)
1. Materials                                   5,500    11,000    11,000         -        27,500
Total A + B + C + D             315,020   597,440   605,240   551,240  2,068,940
Contingencies 10%                31,502    59,744    60,524   _55,124    206,894
GrarLd Total                    346,522   657,184   665,764   606,364  2,275,834
Source: SECOPT
April 1980



TABLE 4.9
- 48 -
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Disbursed              Cumulative
Fiscal Year             In Quarter             Disbursement                %
1981
March 1981                0.20                     0.20                    1
June 1981                  1.80                    2.00                    7
1982
Sept. 1981                2.70                     4.70                   17
Dec. 1981                 3.10                     7.80                   28
March 1982                3.20                    11.00                   39
June 1982                 3.90                    14.90                   5j
1983
Sept. 1982                2.50                    17.40                   62
Dec. 1982                 2.80                    20.20                   72
March 1983                 1.30                   21.50                   76
June 1983                 1.10                    22.60                   81
1984
Sept. 1983                1.10                    23.70                  85
Dec. 1983                 1.10                    24.80                   89
March 1984                0.60                    25.40                   91
June 1984                 0.60                    26.00                  93
1985
Sept. 1984                0.60                    26.60                  95
Dec. 1984                 0.60                    27.20                   97
March 1985                0.50                    27.70                  99
June 1985                 0.30                    28.00                  100
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1980



- 49 -                                   TABLE 5.1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary Presentation of Feeder Roads in Group I
Location of Roads                                                         Pop.   Pre-    Pre-
Area    Culti-             Den-   sent    sent       Net
Road    of      vated    Ser-    Sity   Value   Value    Pre-
Length  Infl.   Area       viced   Per    Econ.   Econ.    sent
(km)   (km2)   (km")    Pop.    (km2)  Costs   B'fits   Valuez-
Guayape Valley                                                                (Lempiras Thousands)
1- Catacamas-Canoa                      6.5   25.5      17.0    1512       59     148.    582        434
2- El Hormiguero-El Culebrero-          7.6   22.5      10.0      770      34      185     590       405
Rio Tinto
3- El Hormiguero-Vijia Yaruca           7.5   16.5       6.5      959      58      251     478       227
4- Jutiquile-Cam. la Puzunca-           3.9    6.5       5.5      511      -        95     106        11
San Marcos-
5- Camino Arimis, Monte                 1.2    7.0       5.6      497      -        91      120       29
Redondo-Punuare
6- Arimis-Monte Redondo                 3.1    7.0       5.0      379      -        83     115        32
7- Qda. de Zopilotepe-Vado              3.6    5.5       4.0      315      -        80     102        22
R. Guayape                                                               1
8- Catacamas-Guanaja-Talgua             4.8    9.0       7.5      469      52      111     119         8
9- Punuare-El Giayabito                 6.7   10.0       5.5    1057       -        73     310       237
10- Las Tablas-Desv. San Marcos          3.3   20.0       6.0      938      47      306     311         5
11- La Ensartadilla-El Carbonal         10.2   18.0      10.0      819      46      207     340       133
La Masica Valley
1- La Suiza-Punta de Rieles            11.7   52.0      24.0    4480       86     440    1621       1181
2- Tripoli-Tarritos                     2.9   24.0      12.0    1000       -       356     475       119
3- Belaire-piedras Amarillas           10.7   30.0      10.0    1800       60      117     602       485
4- Arizona-R. Le'an                     4.5   10.0       4.3      430      -        55      154       99
5- Jilamo Viejo-Rio Lean                4.3    5.5       3.5      560      -        66      84        18
6- Arizona-Sta. MariLa-                19.6  103.0      55.0    8600       83    1366    5104       3738
Las Delicias
Yoro Valley
1- Chancaya-Subirana-Cedritos          15.2   74.0       5.0    2955       40      885    1201       346
2- Yorito-El Jaral                     25.0  102.0      42.0    8100       79    1131    2936       1832
3- Desmonte-Victoria                   12.7   40.0       8.0    2500       62      423     500        77
1/ During project preparation a 10% discount rate was used.
However, roads included in the above list also meet the
new 11% opportunity cost criterion.
Source: SECOPT and Consultant GITEC
June 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Example of Economic Return Calculation for Feeder Roads
Guayape Valley: Catacamas - La Canoa
ITEI                                UNIT      1979     1980      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990        Total
(1)     Net Value of production "without"
Project                              L. 1000    904       909      913     918      923     927     932      937     942      946     951     956
(2)     Net Value or production "with"
Pro2ect                              L. 1000    904       909      924     940      955     971     988   1,004   1,020   1,038   1,055   1,073
(3)     Incremental net value of
Production                           L. 1000    _          _        11      22       32      44      56       67      78       92     104     117   NPV=327,03
(4)    Normal andnduced goodsT                        4,993    5,113    5,342   5,582   5,832   6,094       367   6,653   6,952   7,263   7,589   7,930
(5)     Cost savings of normal goods
transport                            L. 1000    -         -         18      19       20      21      22       23      24       25      26      2;   NP7=133.49       C
(6)    Population                            N0       1,512    1,550    1,589   1,628   1,669   1,711   1,753   1,797   1,842   1,888   1,935   1,984
(7)    Normal passenger transport            Return
trips  30,40   31,000   31,780  32,566  33,379  34,214  25,069  35,946  36,845  37,766  38,709  39,680
(8)     Cost savings of normal passenger
transport                        _ L.000         -       _          14      1        15      1                16      17      17       18      18   NPV=97,52
(9)     Generated passenger transport        Return
trips     -               3,178   6,112  10,014  13,688  17,530  21,564  25.788  30,208  34,.  39,680
(10)     Cost savings of generated pass.
transport 2|                         L. 1000    -                 0.7     1.5      2.3     3.1     4.0     4.9      5.9     6.9      7.9    9.0     NPV=24,04
Total Benefits                                                   43.7    57.5    69.3    84.1    98.0   110.9   124.9   140.9   155.9  171.0        NPV=582,1
Construction and Maintenance Costs
(less maint. of existing road)                           105      5.9     5.9     5.9      5.9    16.2     5.9      5.9     5.9      5.9    5.9     NPV=147.65
Net Benefits                     _                        l      37.8    51.6    63.4    78.2    81.8   105.0   119.0   135.0   150.0  165.1        ERR=56.% 
1/  Average trip length 6.5 km                                                                                                                                           -
2/  Savings on gen. traffic with half their value
Source: SECOPT and Consultant GITEC
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Example of Economic Return Calculation for Feeder Roads
Guayape Valley:  Carr Catacamas - El Hormiguero - El Cerro
IT,                                                  ___  _            ___  _            _ _ _
ITEM                                  UNIT      1979    1980       1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990              Total
(1)    Net Value of production "without"
Pro ject                               L. 1000    434       436       438      441      443      445      448      450      453      455     458      460
(2)    Net Value of production "with"
Pro ject                               L. 1000    434       436       449      463      477      492      507      523      539      555      572      590
(3)    Incremental net value of
Production                             L. 1000       -        _         11      22       34       47       59       73       86      100      114      130    NPV=352 92
(4)    Normal and induced goods
transport 1/                           T.        2,117       _      2,280   2,407   2.541   2682   2,832   2,990   3,157   3.332   3.518   3,714
(5)    Cost savings of normal goods
transport                              L. 1000      -        _          7        7        8        8        9       10       10       11       11       11    NPV=54.03
(6)    Population                              No          959       983   1,008   1. Q3 3 1059   1,085   1,112   1,140   1,168   1,198   1,228   1,258
(7)    Normal passenger transport              Return
trips      -         -   20,160  20,460  21,180  21,700  22,240  22,800  23,360  23,960  24,560  25,160  1
(8)    Cost savings of normal passenger
transport                              L. 1000       -         -         8       9        9        9        9       10       10       10       10       11    NPV=57.13
(9)    Generated passenger transport           Return
trips       -         -    2,016   4.092   6,354   8.680  11,120  13,680  16,352  19,168  22,104  _25,160
(10)    Cost savings of generated pass.
I  transport                                 L1000      -         -      0.4    0.9       1.3       1.8    2.3       2.9      3.4      4.0      4.6      5.3      NPV=13.98
Total Benefit                          L. 1000       -         -     26.4    38.9    52.3    65.8    79.3    95.9   109.4   125.0   139.6   157.3    NPV=478.1
Construction and Maintenance Costs
(less maint. of existing road)         L. 1000      -        199      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2       20      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2    NPV=251,1
____    Net Benefit                             L. 1000       -        199    19.2    31.7    45.1    58.6    59.3    88.7   102.2   117.8   132.4   150.1    ERR-25.2%                 X 
let-
1/  Average trip length 6 km                                                                                                                                                             ,
2/  Savings on gen. traffic with half their value
Source: SECOPT and Consultant GITEC
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Example of Economic Return Calculation for Feeder Roads
Guayape Valley: Jutiguile - La Puzunca
ITEM                                 UNIT      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988             1989   1990       Total
(1)    Net Value of production "without"
Project                                L. 1000    281       282     284      285      286      287     289      290      291      292       294    295
(2)    Net Value of production "with"                              _        _                                                                                    _
Project                                L. 1000    281       282     286      297      296      300     305      310      315      320       325    330
(3)    Incremental net value of
Production                             L. 1000      -       _          2       6       10       13       16      20       24       28        31      35    NPV=96.41
(4)    Normal goods transport                 T.        1,676   1,711   1,790   1873   1,960   2051   2.146   2,246   2.348   2,459    2.573  2,692
(5)    Cost savings of normal goods                                         1
transport                              L. 1000  _   _               1.3      1.3      1.4      1.4     1.6      1.6    1.7        1.8      1.9    1.9      NPV,9.41
(6)    Population                             No          511      524      537     550      564      578      592     607      622      638       654    670
(7)    Normal passenger transport             Return
_____________________________ trips         -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        --               -
(8)    Cost savings of normal passenger
transport                              L. 1000      -        _       _       _         -        _       _        _        _        _                 _         -
(9)    Generated passenger transport          Return
trips     -        _        _        _        _       _        _        _        _        _         _      _
(10)    Cost savings of generated pass.
transport  2/                          L. 1000      -        _       _        _        _        _       _        _        _        _         _ _
Total Benefit                                                       3.3      7.3      11.4    14.4   17.6    27.6    25.7    29.8          32.9   36.9    NPV=105.8
Construction Costs and Maintenance
(less maint. of existing road or
track)                                                     6.9      3.6      3.6       3.6      3.6    10       3.6      3.6      3.6       3.6    3.6    NPV=95,09
Net Benefit                                               -6.9    -0.3       3.7       7.8    10.8   7.6       18.0    22.1    26.2        29.3   33.3    ERR=12.3%7
1/  Average trip length 2 km
2/  Savings on gen. traffic with half their value                                                                                                                                    U
Source: SECOPT and Consultant GITEC
April 1980



- 53 -                               TABLE 5.3
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Benefit/Cost Streams for Improvement    of Secondary Roads
(Lempiras Thousands)
Rio Dulce-El Porvenir             Danli-Santa Maria                  ,elica-S.F. de la Paz
Sec. I      Sec. II      Sec. I & II
ADT          Net          ADT          ADT            Net          ADT          Net
Year      Veh.      Benefits        Veh.         Veh.        Benefits        Veh.      Benefits
1981                (1,420)                                 (3,500)
1982               (2,540)                                   (7,100)                   (1,500)
1983     318           553        1,048         332         (2,477)          273       (2,580)
1984     341           590        1,100         352           1,818          301          533
1985     364           627        1,156         373           1,915          331          588
1986     390           668        1,213         396          2,017           364          647
1987     416           710        1,274         420          2,124           401          713
1988     445           757        1,325         444          2,218           433          770
1989     476           808        1,378         472          2,321           468          833
1990     509           862        1,433         500          2,424           505          898
1991     545           919        1,490         529           2,530          545          970
1992     584           980        1,550         562          2,642           589        1,048
1993     607         1,016        1,597         579          2,649           619        1,102
1994     632         1,056        1,644         596          2,720           649        1,155
1995     657         1,095        1,693         614          2,796           681        1,212
1996     682         1,135        1,744         632          2,870           716        1,274
1997     710         1,144        1,797         651          2,950           752        1,337
1998     738         1,223        1,850         671          3,030           790        1,404
1999     768         1,270        1,906         691          3,106           829        1,474
2000      799        1,319        1,964         712           3,197          870        1,547
2001     830         1,368        2,022         734           3,285          914        1,624
2002      864        1,422        2,083         755           3,375          959        1,704
Source: SECOPT Feasibility Studies
April 1980



- 54 -                            TABLE 5.4
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis for Improvement    of Secondary Roads
Alternatives                                       Economic Return (%)
Rio Dulce-   Danli-         Telica-
El Porvenir  Santa Marla   S. F. de la Paz
1.  Base Case                                     18             16             18
2.  20% Decrease in Benefits                      15             13             15
3.  10% Increase in Costs                         16             14             16
4.  A combination of alternative 2 and 3          14             13             15
Source:   SECOPT Feasibility Studies
April 1980



HOHDU1S5
EIGHTH HIGHWAiY PROJEST
Road Cenditiono without Highway Msintenance Programi 1981-1984
Type of                         1980                                      1981                                      1982                                      1983                                       1984
Syrfaoe
Paved              Good         Fair fad            Total     Good       Fair        Bad      Total      Good    .Fr          Bad       Tot-l      Good      Fair        Bad      Total       Grod     _ZF,_    Bad         0Tota
Principal      1,323        198        73     1,594      1,337        298        73     1,708      1,179       453        118     1,750        977        598       208      1,783        762       692        358      1,892
Secondary         82         27         2        111        82         37         2        121       100        45          9        154        90         S9         20       169         91        68         38        297
Feeder             2         24         6         32        -          26         6        32         20        21         11        52         15         21         16        52         -         15         37         52
Total          1,407        249        81      1,737     1,419        361        81      1,861     1,299       519        138     1,956      1,082        678        244     2,004        853        775       433      2,061
Gravel
Principal         25        133        10        168        60         33        20        113       249        -          21       270        274         50         21       345        205        106        34        345
Secondary        596        334       110      1,040       545        344       140     1,029        499       351        210     1,060        414        388       283      1,085        330       368        399      1,097
Feeder           801        927       609      2.237       961        927       690      2,478     1,272        842       895     3.009      1,396        971     1,148      3515       1.396     1.119      1,488      4.003
lotal          1,422      1,294        729     3,445     1,566      1,204       857      3,620     2,020      1,193     1,126     4,339      2,084      1,409      1,452     4,945      1,931     1,593      1,921      5,445
Earth
Frlncip}l        -          -         -
Secondary        210        137        68        415       190        141        84       415        162         85       104        351       130        100        121       351         91        109       151        351
Feeder           170        288       410        868       249        278       440       967        299       212        495     1.006        224        234        548     1.006        246       230        630      1,106
Total            380        425       478      1,283       439        419       524      1,382       461        297       599      1,357       354        334        669     1,357        337        339       781      1,457
Or}nd Total    3,209     1,968      1,288     6,465      3,424      1,984     1,455     6,863      3,780     2,009      1.863      7,652     3,520      2,421     2.365      8.306      3.121     2.707      3.135      8 963
Percenta5e       507       307.       20.      100%        507.      29%        21%      1007        507       26%       24%        100%      42%         297       29%       100%        35%       30%       35.       1007%
Source:  SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



HONDIJUAS
EIGHTP HIGHWAY PRJECT
Rood Condition. vith High8,Y HM8te,- Prorm  1981-i984
Type of                         1980                                       1981                                       1982                                       1983                                       1984
Surf ace
Good       Fstr        Bad       Total     Good                   Bad      Tta1      Good       Fir         Bad      Total      Good       oir        BYd       Total      Good       Fair        B. lotal
Principal      1,323        198         73     1,594      1,337       298         73     1,708      1,312        350        88      1,750     1,380        323         80      1,783     1,441        299         72      1,812
Secondary         82         27          2       111         82        37          2       121        107        41          6        154       122         41          6        169        154        37          6        197
Feeder             2         24          6        32        -          26          6        32         20         23         9         52         20        23          9         52         22        21          9         52
Total          1,407        249         81     1,737      1,419       361         81     1,861      1,439       414        103      1,956     1,522        387         95      2,004     1,617        357         87      2,061
Gravel
Princtpal         25        133         10       168         60        33         20       113        253        -          17        270        328       -           17        345       328        -           17        345
Secondary        596        334       110      1,040       545        344        140     1,029        527        341       192      1,060       601        326        158      1,085       673        281        143      1,097
Feeder           801        827       609      2 237        961       827        690    2Z478       1.320        834       855      3.009     1.909        836        770      3.515     2.480        830        693     4.003
Total          1,422      1,294        729     3,445      1,566     1,204        850     3,620      2,100      1,175     1,064     4,339      2,838      1,162        945     4,945      3,481      1,111        853      5,445
Earth
Principal        -                     -                    -         -                     ------                                                                    -----
Se-ondry        210        137        68        415        190       141         84       415        171         82        98        351        179        83         89        351        187        84         80        351
Feeder           170        288       410        868        249       278        440       967        312        212       482      1.006       333        239        434      1006        457        258        391      1.106
Total            380        425       478      1,283        439       419        524     1,382        483        294       580      1,357       512        322        523      1,357       644        342        471      1,457
Grood Totol    3.209      1,968      1         6,465      3,424     1,984      1,455     6.863      4,022      183       1          7.652     4,872      1,871      1.563      8.306     574Z       1810       1,411      8 963
Percentage      50%        30%       20%        100%       50%       29%        21%       100%       53%        247.      23%        100%      58%        22%        20%        100%      64%        20%        167.       1007,
B..ro.: SECOPT 6 Consul.ant Jorgen.en
April 1980



TABLE 5.7
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic 1977 and Annual Growth Rates
Light                 Bus                     Truck
Growth                Growth                 Growth
1977   Rate          1977    Rate           1977    Rate
ADT    %             ADT      %             ADT     %
Paved      Principal        548   5.7            131    6.7             302    5.2
Secondary      106   5.5              51    6.2              38    5.0
Feeder           49   5.3              8    7.8              17    7.0
Gravel     Principal       149   5.9              33    6.4            119    6.6
Secondary        99   5.7             22    6.3              55    5.6
Feeder           22   5.5              6    6.3              16    5.6
Earth      Principal          -     -              -      -               -      -
Secondary        97   6.0             24    7.0              49    5.0
Feeder           10   5.6              2    6.7               4    6.0
Source:   Highway Master Pan 1978-87.  Project Unit IBRD
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Average Daily Traffic for Period 1980-84
1980                  1981                   1982                   1983                    1984
C     B    T    E    C    B    T    E         C    B    T    E    C    B    T    E          C     B    T    E
Paved        Principal    647  159  352 2,180 684  169  370 2,301  723  181  390 2,436 764  193  410 2,573  808  206  431 2,719
Secondary    124   61   44   439 131   65   46   464  138   69   49   492 146   73   51   518  154   79   54   550
Feeder         57   10   21   150  60   11   22   159   64   12   24   172  67   13   26   184   70   14   27   193
Gravel       Principal    177   40  144   729 187   42  154   775  198   45  164   825 210   48  175   879  222   51  186   933
Secondary    117   27   65   393 124   28   68   412  131   30   72   437 138   32   76   462  146   34   80   488
Feeder         25    7   19   103  27    8   20   111   28    8   21   115  30    9   22   123   31    9   23   127'
Earth        Principal        -    -    -       -   -    -    -       -    -    -    -        -   -    -    -       -    -    -    -        -
Secondary    116   29   57   374 122   31   60   395  130   34   63   421 138   36   66   444  146   38   69   467
Feeder         11    2    5    32  12    2    5    33   13    2    5    34  13    3    6    40   14    3    6    41
C = Car
B = Bus              1B   1T = 3 C    =3 E
T = Truck
E = Equivalent
Source: SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs 1980
(Lempiras per 1000 veh/km.)
GOOD                               FAIR                                BAD
Car        Bus      Truck          Car         Bus      Truck          Car        Bus      Lru_c
Paved              193.55      356.44      597.25      232.26      427.73      716.70      290.33    534.66       895.88
Speed (km/h.)       80          72          64          64          56         48          48         40          32
Gravel             274.33      478.60      698.62      301.76      526.46      768.48      384.06    670.04      978.07
Speed (km/h.)       64          56          48          48         40          32          32         24          24
Earth              289.20      522.11      795.47      318.12      574.32      875.02      375.96    678.74   1,034.11
Speed (km/h.)       48          40          32          32          24         24           24         16          16
Source: SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980
M-



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs with and without Highway Maintenance Program 1981-1984
_    't, Ofl-
1980      1981                   1982                            1983                            1984
With/     With/                            VOC                             VOC                             VOC
Without   Without    Without    With    Savings   Without    With    Savings   Without    With    Savings
Paved
Principal           239,038   272,362    303,259  297,575    5,684    338,035  317,986    20,049   378,690  339,281    39,409
Secondary             3,087      3,588       4,926    4,860         66       5,901    5,572         329      7,561    6,830         731
Feeder                   394        421         698       691         7         777      740          37       930        769        161
Gravel                                                                                                                                      a
Principal            11,383       8,119     19,350   19,239        111      26,535   26,046         489    29,007   27,640        1,367  0
Secondary            37,064    38,785       43,293   42,994        299      47,980   46,002       1,978    52,975   48,426        4,549
Feeder                21,969    26,100      32,980   32,820        160      41,469   39,792       1,677    49,649   45,993        3,656
Earth
Principal                  -          -           -         -        -           -         -          -           -        -           -
Secondary            15,413    16,447       15,039   14,958         81      16,107   15,667         440    17,382   16,366        1,016
Feeder                 3,054      3,999       3,768    3,757         11      4,399    4,276         123      4,999    4,734          265
Total      331,402   369,821    423,313  416,894    6,419    481,203  456,081    25,122   541,193  490,039    51,154
Source:  SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
May 1980                                                                                                                                 _



- 61 -
HONDURAS                        TABLE 5.11
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program 1981-1984
Hours Saved and Time Cost Savings 1/
Hours                             Time Cost Savings
Year           Buses       Trucks          Buses           Trucks           Total
(hours thousands)           (----- Lempiras Thousands -----)
1982           64.3         174.7          167.2            667.4          834.6
1983          288.3         760.0          749.6          2,903.2        3,652.8
1984          597.5       1,565.7        1,553.5          5,981.0        7,534.5
Buses: Lps. 2.60/hour for operators and helpers
Trucks: Llps. 3.82/hour for operators and helpers
Source: SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



- 62 -                                TABLE 5.12
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Return Analysis for Highway Maintenance Program 1981-1984
Economic Benefits                          Economic Costs
Vehicle Operating    Time Cost    Total         Investment    Maintenance        Total
Cost Savings       Savings     Benefits       Costs        Cost Increase    Costs
(Lempiras-Thousands)                    (Lerpiras-Thousands)
1980                -               -                           874              -             874
1981                -               -            -            4,306            6,076        10,382
1982              6,419            835          7,254        10,424            6,071        16,495
1983             25,122          3,653         28,775         3,723            6,736        10,459
1984             51,154          7,535         58,689        (3,831)           6,606         2,775
ECONOMIC RETURN = 70%
Sensitivity Analysis
Alternative                                      Economic Return
1. Base Case                                              70%
2. Excluding Time Cost Savings                            63%
3. 25% Decrease in Benefits                               44%
4. 25% Increase in Costs                                  50%
5. A combination of alternatives 2, 3 and 4               19%
Source: SECOPT and Consultant Jorgensen
April 1980



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance for Highway Maintenance
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        The Honduran Government, through its Secretariat for Communications,
Public Works and Transportation (SECOPT), has undertaken a program that
includes highway improvements, the purchase of equipment for highway mainte-
nance, and improvements in highway maintenance management and operations,
with the financial support of the Bank. Technical assistance will be required
to ensure the efficient continuation and strengthening of the program. This
document describes the objectives of the program and the nature of the tech-
nical assistance to be provided.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the project described in these terms of reference
is the provision of technical assistance by a consulting firm ("the Consultant")
to SECOPT's Directorate General for Maintenance of Highways and Airports (DGM),
a unit of SECOPT, with a view to achieving the following objectives:
(a)  to continue to strengthen the development and implementation of
systems and procedures for the improvement of highway maintenance
and operations, including cost and planning systems and control
of equipment maintenance and repairs;
(b)  to continue to strengthen the development and implementation of
systems and procedures for improving equipment and workshop
management and operations;
(c)  to continue to strengthen the training of engineers and super-
visors on the staff of DGM to enable them to effectively manage
and diLrect highway and equipment maintenance operations;
(d)  to continue to strengthen the capacity and effectiveness of-
DGM's Personnel Training Department, including the study and
possible setting up of a Training through Production Unit Ln
the Department, in which training would be supplemented by work
under actual production conditions, supervised by trained
instruictors;
(e)  to esitablish a system for maintenance planning based on methods
already established to facilitate short- and long-term planning
activities, including decision-making tools for defining
optimuam combinations of resources, maximizing return on invest-
ment and establishing a sound and economically feasible balance



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
between routine maintenance and rehabilitation. To improve the
quality and speed of management operations, the system must be
operable through a computer model;
(f) to establish an economic analysis system to make it possible
to compare the effects of different maintenance techniques
within a budgetary constraint;
(g) to continue and complete the establishment of an accounting,
budgeting and highway and equipment maintenance costing system,
with a view to obtaining reliable information at the right time;
(h) to continue and complete the implementation of an information
system designed to provide appropriate and timely control of
implementation of the system and programs, so that the procedures
may be adjusted as required and updated for the purpose of future
programs;
(i) to continue and complete the implementation of an inventory and
warehouse orders control system with the establishment of maximum
and minimum levels; and
(j) to design a system for the early diagnosis of structural weaknesses
in major roads in order to establish rehabilitation and/or im-
provement needs in good time to enable the Director General of
Maintenance or of Highways and Airports to determine which cases
require more detailed engineering studies for the purpose of
drawing up a medium-term (five-year) program of properly
documented rehabilitation work.
III. SCOPE OF THE CONSULTANT SERVICES
3.        The project will be executed as a joint effort by SECOPT, through
DGM and the Consultant. The Consultant shall provide the services required
to assist DGM in attaining the objectives stated in Section II above. The
Government will provide data, personnel, services and local facilities as
described in Section V hereof.
4.        The services shall be executed over a minimum period of two years.
It is estimated that the Consultant will be required to supply approximately
132 man-months of professional services.
5.        The Consultant's services shall include work in the following main
areas, without necessarily being limited thereto.



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
A.   Highway Maintenance Management and Operations
6.        Efforts will be made to continue to improve highway maintenance
management and operations, including routine and major maintenance projects,
as well as improvement works on highways that have been constructed without
proper design standards and that form part of the highway maintenance network.
7.        The Consultant shall provide guidance and assistance to DGM in its
efforts:
(1)  to refine highway maintenance operating objectives, policies and
procediures;
(2) to complete and strengthen implementation of the overall system
of highway maintenance management, including planning, specific
programing, management, execution and control procedures for
highway maintenance and improvement works, and the design of a
computer model to improve implementation of this system;
(3) through the use of a computer model, to refine and strengthen
the preparation of annual programs and budgets based on actual
execution;
(4) based on experience, to bring execution, volumes and average
production standards up to date in order to streamline future
programs;
(5) to implement the system at the national level and ensure its
continuous operation on a routine basis;
(6) to determine parameters and systems for gathering the data
required for the carrying out of economic analyses that will
make it possible to establish rates of return on investment
and benefit/cost ratios, with a view to obtaining objective
criteria for defining priorities in program execution; and
(7) to establish the system for determining the condition of
major highway structures, bases and subbases, establishing
future rehabilitation needs and preparing four-year or five-year
rehabilitation programs.
B.   Equipment and Workshop Mlanagement
8.        To continue and expand the efforts being made to improve the use
and management of highway maintenance equipment, and to improve the operations
and management of equipment repair shops.



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        The Consultant shall advise and assist DGM in connection with:
(1) conti.nuation and strengthening of the workshop management system
and procedures for carrying out preventive maintenance and repairs
at the national level;
(2) assisting in the operation and improvement of the Las Torres,
San Pedro Sula and district workshops, the Consultant's experts
providing guidance and technical support to the shop foremen and
supervisors in the planning and execution of programs, and directly
supervising shop personnel;
(3) continuation and strengthening of the system for scheduling major
repairs and equipment rehabilitation;
(4) completion and strengthening of the system for controlling the
cost of equipment maintenance, repair and operation, and implemen-
tation of the system for establishing annual work programs,
including cost estimates;
(5) completion and strengthening of the system for controlling
equipment utilization and availability, through a system for
checking on the use, operation and readings of meters designed
to measure hours of use and kilometers covered; and
(6) assisting with the expansion of existing workshops and the
construction of new workshops, including the corresponding
equipment and organization.
C.   Training of Highway Maintenance Personnel
10.       See separate terms of reference in Annex 2.
IV. REPORTS AND MANUALS
11.       In order to ensure the orderly and effective achievement of the
project's objectives, certain stages of the works must be carried out in
strict adherence to the project schedule.
12.       The preparation of a detailed work program, suited to the conditions
observed by the Consultant, must be completed and submitted in an initial
report not later than the end of the fourth month of the project.
13.       During the course of the project, the Consultant shall submit the
following reports (all in Spanish) to the Government by the following
deadlines:
(a) Initial report: Within four months from the date of startup,
setting forth:



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
(1) the initial conclusions and recommendations of the Consultant
regarding continuing and strengthening the management systems
for highway and equipment maintenance at the national level,
and training in highway and equipment maintenance;
(2) the plan and detailed timetable for the remainder of the
project.
(b) A detailed workshop expansion and construction program, including
basic specifications and equipment.
(c) Progress reports: At intervals of three months following submission
of the initial report, indicating which staff the Consultant has
assigned to the project and the work undertaken during the period
covered by the report, the difficulties and/or delays encountered;
proposed corrective action and measures, and the work schedule for
the following three-month period.
(d) Final report: In draft form, five months prior to the completion
date, summarizing the systems and procedures applied, work completed,
overall improvements attributable to the project, and recommenda-
tions for future improvements. The final report shall be submitted
within 60 days following receipt of the Government's comments on
the draft final report.
14.        In addition to the formal reports mentioned above, three operational
manuals shall be prepared on the systems and procedures developed and imple-
mented by the Directorate during the course of the project, as follows:
(1) a Manual of Accounting and Cost Procedures; and (2) a lIanual of Warehousing
Procedures and Inventory Control. In addition, the manuals prepared by the
Consultants for the Seventh Highway Project shall be revised and brought up to
date.
V.   DATA, SERVICES AND INSTALLATIONS TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
15.        The Government will provide the following data, services and local
facilities:
(1)  Data:  The Government will supply the Consultant with all available
data and information regarding the highway and equipment mainte-
nance operations of DGM and will facilitate access by the Consultant
to all details regarding the organization, operations, budgeting and
accounting services of the Directorate.
(2) Services and Facilities: The Government will provide the
Consultant with office premises in Honduras, including furniture,
equipment and office supplies, public services and telephone
(within Honduras) and document printing and reproduction services
for project-related documents, at no cost to the Consultant.



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
(3)  Personnel:  the Government will provide the services of a Project
Coordinator to work in close collaboration with the Consultant
on management of the project, and also such secretarial and
translation services as may be required for the successful
execution of the project.
In addition, the Government will provide such counterpart staff
as may be required to execute the project as a joint effort with
the Consultant, inter alia, assigning regular staff members, in
both professional and support capacities, to:
(a) the highway and equipment maintenance offices in the head
office of DGM; and
(b) the Maintenance Districts.
This Directorate personnel will receive "in service" training from
the Consultant and take part in the development and implementation
of management systems and procedures and in the development and
running of training courses.
(4)  Local Transportation:  the Government will provide eight new
vehicles for the Consultant to use for the duration of the project,
defraying the corresponding operating, maintenance and repair
costs. The Government will also provide air travel within Honduras
for personnel assigned to the project by DGM and the Consultant
as required for execution of the project.
16.       To ensure optimum execution of the project, the Government may
authorize the Consultant to provide secretarial services, equipment and
vehicles, for which it will be reimbursed.



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
VI. PERSONNEL OF THE CONSULTANT
The Consultant shall provide the following personnel for the periods
indicated:
Position                                      Duration
1 Project leader, an engineer specialized in highway             24 man-months
maintenance and training, in charge of the
management and general supervision of the project
1 Highway maintenance engineer in charge of implementing         24 man-months
the system at the national level and keeping it
as up to date and streamlined as possible
1 Mechanical engineer to continue and strengthen the             24 man-months
assistance programs covering equipment and
workshops
1 Workshop superintendent with experience in workshop            24 man-months
management
1 Speci.alist in budgeting, cost accounting and personnel        12 man-months
administration, to support implementation of the
system and its programing on a computer model
1 Warehouse and spare parts management specialist,               24 man-months
to strengthen the system of parts and materials
inventories and procurement
TOTAL                                                      132 man-months
April 1980



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Training Program for Road Maintenance Personnel
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Secretariat of State for Communications, Public Works and
Transportation (SECOPT) plans to carry out a four-year program for the training
and upgrading of personnel at all levels engaged in road maintenance. The
training program will consist of:
(a) strengthening the Training Department of SECOPT;
(b) establishing a Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU)
for the training of mechanics at Las Torres; and
(c) setting up and operating a mobile Road Training Production Unit
(RTPU) for the training of road foremen/overseers, equipment
operators/drivers and certain levels of mechanics.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The objectives of the technical assistance services are to:
(a) confirm the manpower requirements for the four-year road
maintenance and rehabilitation program (1981-1984) and update
the inventory of all maintenance personnel;
(b) design detailed training and upgrading programs aimed at
producing qualified personnel required to implement the
maintenance and rehabilitation program;
(c) implement the program and, at the same time, provide
on-the-job training for Honduran counterparts and instructors;
and
(d) review personnel policies affecting recruitment, career
development, salaries, and a system of incentives for
the successful completion of training courses.



- 71 -
ANNE.X 2
Page 2
III. SCOPE AND SERVICES
A.   General
3.        Technical assistance will consist of:
(a)  a training adviser responsible for designing the programs,
supervising their implementation and upgrading the Chief of
the Training Department. He should also advise SECOPT regarding
a reorganization of all personnel actions related to staff
development;
(b) one road engineer (Chief of RTPU) and two senior instru,ztors for
operators and drivers to run RTPU and train assistant instructors;
an(i
(c) a senior mechanical instructor (Chief of MTPU) and two mnechanical
instructors to train mechanics and assistant instructors at
Las Torres.
4.        Technical assistance experts shall be responsible for all aspects of
the training program and be accountable to the Directorate General of Maintenance
of Highways and Airports (DGM). They shall coordinate their work with the
Chief of the Training Department and engineers in charge of road maintenance
and rehabilitation in the Districts and Subdistricts. The functional
character of this program will require that the aims relating to the number
of people trained for different job categories be in consonance with the
current and future needs of the road maintenance programs set by DGM. The
success of the execution of the training program will depend upon thorough
coordination of the center and RTPU's activities with the Director responsible
for field maintenance to ensure that equipment and spare parts for training
mechanics and operators are available when needed and that there are jobs
to be performed when trainees are sent to the field to carry out productive
road maintenance operations.
B.   Review of Manpower Requirements
5.        The training adviser will:
(a) confirm the personnel requirements for the four-year
maintenance and rehabilitation program and the inventory
of personnel requiring training and upgrading;
(b) determine the skills and knowledge required for maintenance
personnel at all levels; and
(c) assess the training needs of existing DGM personnel.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
C.   Definition of a Detailed Training Program
6.        Upon completion of the review under paragraph 5, the treining
adviser will prepare a detailed training program to meet the personnel needs
and will, inter alia:
(a) determine the number of personnel by category and level to be
trained during the four-year period, establishing priority
needs;
(b) develop a phased training program for different categories and
levels of personnel taking into consideration SECOPT manpower
requirements and budgetary constraints. The program could be
presented along the following lines:
(i)  a two-year Priority Program to start as soon as resources
become available under the proposed Eighth Highway Project;
and
(ii)  a Continuing Program which would follow and consolidate
action taken during the Priority Program.
The phased program shall be updated annually in consultation
with the Bank;
(c) set up a mobile Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) and a small
center at Las Torres for productive training of road foremen/
overseers, operators, drivers and preventive maintenance
mechanics;
(d) determine the number and categories of Honduran instructors
required and set up programs for their training;
(e) determine the training equipment and materials required
including audio-visual aids;
(f) prepare the annual budget of training activities; and
(g) recommend any other action considered necessary for the
satisfactory implementation of training.
D.   Implementation of the Training Program
7.        Following the Government's agreement on the training program,
the technical assistance experts will:
(a) implement the training program; and
(b) assist in selecting and training Honduran counterparts and
instructors to take over the training activities within a
reasonable time.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
E.   Review of Existing Training and Personnel Policies
8.        The Training Adviser, in collaboration with the Chief of the Training
Department, Director General of DGM and other senior officials, will:
(a)  review existing training procedures and, if necessary, recommend
appropriate changes, including a new training policy; and
(b) assess the effectiveness of current policies regarding recruitment,
career development and remuneration and recommend any organiza-
tional changes required to create an environment in which training
can be most effective.
IV. SCHEDULE FOR REPORTING
9.         SECOPT will be responsible for preparing the following reports (in
Spanish) within the time limits specified:
(a)  an inception report within four months of the starting date,
detailing training needs and recommendations for a four-year
program to meet these needs, including measures required to
implement the program. The report will contain a concise
first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports describing the work carried out
during the previous three months and the work program for the
foLlowing three months; the progress report will identify
actual and anticipated difficulties and delays in implementing
the training program and suggest remedies;
(c) a 'brief report on personnel policies and recommended improvements;
(d) two months prior to the training adviser's completion of service,
a draft final report will be prepared summarizing (i) work
performed; (ii) progress made; (iii) benefits from training
program; (iv) areas where progress has been unsatisfactory;
and (v) recommendations for further action;
(e) a final report within one month of receipt of comments on the
draft final report from Government; and
(f) other reports as may be reasonably requested by the Government.
Two copies of all reports will be sent to the Bank as soon as issued for
information.
April 1980



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
JOB DESCRIPTION
Training Adviser
Duration:          12 months
Duty Station:      SECOPT Headquarters, Tegucigalpa, with frequent
field trips to Las Torres Center, RTPU sites and
other areas as needed.
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a)  A good general and technical education up to university level.
He should be a road maintenance specialist, preferably an engineer,
with five to seven years responsible experience in managing training
activities, particularly in establishing programs and facilities.
Moreover, he should be capable of (i) organizing a comprehensive
policy of staff development through practical and productive
training; (ii) taking part in active training by conducting seminars
and discussions on a specific road maintenance problem; and (iii) re-
viewing and recommending improvements of existing personnel policies;
(b) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(c) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
The training adviser will be responsible for:
(a) establishing and coordinating training policies;
(b)  identifying manpower training needs to carry out the road
maintenance and rehabilitation program;
(c) preparing the required training programs, taking into consideration
existing conditions in Honduras and SECOPT's administrative
structure;
(d) determining the resources required to conduct the training program;
(e) developing methodology for personnel training and quality control;
(f) approving training curricula and materials;
(g) implementing training program, bearing in mind the necessary coor-
dination of activities between the Training Department and the
Las Torres Center and the RTPU (field training), availability of
personnel and other constraints;



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(h)  conducting liaison with senior officers, District and Subdistrict
engineers and consultants of SECOPT to obtain their cooperation
for all matters related to training and staff development policies;
(i) carrying out workshops/seminars on maintenance management and
related topics for high level staff;
(j) designing an evaluation system within the training program both to
monitor the results of training while it is performed an.d, later,
to evaluate the effectiveness of completed programs;
(k) reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement. of
existing personnel policies, in collaboration with the Director
of Personnel Department; and
(1) taking necessary measures to ensure the satisfactory implementation
of all seminars and programs required to meet DGM's training needs,
including the upgrading of the Chief of the Training Department
to take over his responsibilities, and supervising the t:raining
of Honduran instructors.
3.        In discharging his duties, the training adviser will report to the
Director General of Maintenance through the Chief of the Training Department.
April 1980



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
JOB DESCRIPTION
Chief of Road Training Production Unit (RTPU)
Duration:          24 months
Duty Station:      RTPU on road maintenance sites in Honduras
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level or
equivalent - road engineer or senior road construction/maintenance
superintendent;
(b) effective previous training and subsequent extensive field
experience in road construction and maintenance;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training in road construction and maintenance at supervisory level;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control work activities, and
to maintain a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
The Chief of RTPU will be responsible for:
(a) planning, organizing and implementing practical productive training
of personnel assigned to RTPU, as well as rehabilitation/maintenance
works to be carried out while training takes place; during the last
quarter of his service, he will have only an advisory role while
a Honduran staff will manage the RTPU;
(b) providing on-the-job training to road foremen, overseers, equipment
operators, drivers and certain levels of mechanics, and ensuring
that they also receive some instructions in theory;
(c) supervising the activities of the chief equipment operator and
chief mechanic assigned to the unit;
(d) ensuring an adequate supply system to enable RTPU to be
properly stocked with materials, lubricants, etc;
(e) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and other
resources allocated to RTPU; and
(f) training a Honduran counterpart and supervising the training of
counterparts to the senior instructor, operators and chief mechanic
as well as other Honduran instructors assigned to the unit.
3.        In discharging his duties, the Chief of RTPU will report to the
Chief of the Training Department through the training adviser.



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
JOB DESCRIPTION
Chief of Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU)
Duration:           24 months
Duty Station:       Las Torres Center or other suitable location
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent - mechanical superintendent or senior workshop foreman;
(b) sound practical training and subsequent extensive practical
experience in the maintenance and repair of heavy road
construction/maintenance equipment, dump trucks and other
road vehicles. Institutional training experience would be
an advantage;
(c)  experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
programs in maintenance and repair of road equipment;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control work activities of others
while maintaining a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
(a)  Planning, organizing and implementing basic and upgrading training
of- mechanics assigned to Las Torres (or other suitable location)
as well as rehabilitation of road equipment;
(b) developing, in collaboration with the training adviser and the
Chief of the Training Department, basic training materials to be
used for those trainees who never benefited from prior training;
(c)  ensuring an adequate and timely supply of spare parts to carry
out productive training, i.e., repairing existing broken-down
equipment;
(d)  ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials and
other resources allocated to the center; and
(e) training a Honduran counterpart and other instructors assigned to
tlhe center.
3.         ln discharging his duties, the senior instructor, mechtanics will
report to the Chief of the Training Department through the training adviser.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evaluation of Feeder Roads in the Guayape Valley
A.   General
1.        The evaluation has been worked out under the following key assumptions
which are valid for all regions under consideration:
(a) no indication was found that the shadow exchange rate is
significantly different from the official foreign exchange
rate, so that no shadow pricing has been applied in this case;
(b) project costs are calculated without transfer payments;
(c) the scarcity price of labor was found to vary from region
to region so that the shadow wage rate was estimated individually
for each region. Project cost calculation is based on the indi-
vidual shadow wage rates; and
(d) costs of additional agricultural services have been calculated
where directly needed to support the impact of the road on
agricultural production. Where no indication was found that
the existence of the road will cause increase of agricultural
services (in terms of personnel), no additional cost was
applied. The impact then was estimated under the assumption
that the service personnel will not be more extended than in
the "without" project case. Where additional costs are applied,
these were discussed with regional officials of the Ministry
of Natural Resources (MNR) and IHCAFE and were found to be
reasonable for the "with" case (as far as this can be estimated
by the regional officials). However, to ensure the additional
investments, agreements should be reached about this matter
with central planning offices of MNR and IHCAFE.
B.   Determination of Present Situation
2.        Area of influence was generally determined on basis of carto-
graphical sheets in scale 1:50,000, and when not available, on basis of
criquis-maps of approximately 1:1,000,000. These were in most cases checked
by aerial photographs with cadastral limits, road, village, rivers etc.,
indicated by survey engineers (this check was made mainly to obtain the
tenancy situation in the area and for establishment of the influence area).
In most cases, only areas in valleys were considered as influence area,
because the mountainous parts are mostly not used economically (forests not
exploited and/or pasture areas with poor level of exploitation).



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Cultivated area and cropping patterns were determined in coopera-
tion with agricultural extensionists, by personnel inspection of the area,
and by interviews with the local population.  It was found that farming through-
out the region is highly specialized in basic grains (maize, rice), red
beans and cotton. Sorgo and sesam were recently introduced for secondary
cropping (the two crops are considered together). Red beans and sometimes
maize, as well as sorgo and sesam, are used as secondary crops. The annual
cropping area, therefore, does not coincide with the total cultivated area.
4.        Yields vary considerably in accordance with the degree of agri-
cultural technology applied. Yield figures therfore are obtained for three
types of technology existent in the area (traditional, semitechniLfied and
technified)
5.        Average farmgate prices are often considerably below wlholesale
prices due to the influence of intermediaries. Where farmers have storage
facilities (only in very few cases of large-scale farming), farmgate prices
can be considerably higher when the product is sold out of season. It was,
however, found that nearly 100% of exported products are sold during harvest
season; therefore, the relevant average farmgate price equals the in-season
price.  Data were obtained during field surveys and checked with extensionists
as well as price statistics.  An average price was applied for less important
crops.  The same price was applied for locally consumed crops and marketed
crops.
6.        Production costs were estimated on the basis of interviews with
extensionists and checked with cost statistics of the Ministry of Natural
Resources and other institutions (National Cotton Cooperative). The labor
element was excluded (in order to obtain the producer surplus) as far as it
consists of own labor. For hired labor, a wage-rate of L 4 was applied for
one man-day because only a 5-6 hour working time, as usual in the region
for agricultural works, is considered. The paid wage-rate for a full day
amounts to L 6, which was found to reflect the scarcity price of labor.
A summary of yields, prices, and production costs for each crop is given
in Table 4 of this Annex.
7.        Population served was estimated on the basis of the number of
producers (households) and was mostly obtained from aerial photographs of
the cadastral office. One producer was calculated to consist of a 7-person
family on the average. Where this procedure was not applicable (no photo-
graphs available for some areas), the data were obtained during the field
survey by inquiries about the number of houses in the influence area
(inquiries with 2-5 farmers who had to list all family-heads). This
informatior, was checked with census data and was found to be more reliable
than adjustments of census data on the basis of average population growth
rates.
8.        Local consumption of crops grown in the area was established
during the field survey on the basis of consumption data of basic grains
and red beans. Data were supported by results of DARNO's (Direccion
Agricola de la Region Nordeste) inquiries about this matter. The consump-
tion of meat (pork, chicken, etc.) was not calculated. All beefE is con-
sidered to be exported. Parts of milk production are consumed 'Locally
in the form of milk and cheese.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
9.        The exportable surplus is the difference between production
and local consumption of crops. All exportable surplus is marketed and
thus needs transport over existing roads or tracks.
10.       Transport losses are assumed not to reach a significant figure.
Since the produced goods are not sensitive to transport damage, no major
spoilage accrues. Interviews with extensionists and farmers did not
indicate any significant amount of spoilage.
11.       Cost of goods transport on existing roads.  For goods transport,
three modes are used: lorry (truck), ox-cart and mule. Since most of
the roads are passable in the dry season only, it was assumed that 50%
of goods transport is done by vehicle, 40% by ox-cart and 10% by mule.
For roads which serve primarily agricultural land, it was assumed that
10% of transport is done by vehicle and 90% by ox-cart because these
roads are mostly used for short-distance traffic to the village. Transport
costs for different modes were obtained during field surveys and (where
possible) adjusted in line with figures obtained from the recent Transport
Master Plan, undertaken by TAMS, New York.
12.       Costs of passenger transport.  Passenger transport (non-agriculture-
related trips) was assumed to be only on roads to village. Since there is
no regular motorized passenger transport available in the project areas today
(usually undertaken by light vehicles or minibuses), it was estimated that
about 20% of total passenger trips were undertaken by motorized vehicles
(mostly by taking advantage of goods transport vehicles in the dry season),
30% by animal (mule or horse), while 50% represent walking. Cost figures were
obtained during the field survey. The walking time was valued at the shadow
wage rate (Lempiras 6 per 8 hours). A round walking day is 12 hours; thus,
time costs for walking were fixed at L 0.5 per hour. Personal mobility was
found to be relatively high even without good transport facilities. On average,
about 20 return trips are undertaken annually per inhabitant.
C.   Determination of the Future Situation
13.       Assumptions about future development are summarized below for
"without" and "with" situations. The sources of information are the same
as mentioned above.
14.       "Without" project situation.  Past development is characterized
by a gradual introduction of agricultural technology such as machinery and
the use of fertilizer, insecticides/pesticides leading to a change of tech-
nology in most parts of the region from "traditional" farming to a "semi-
technified" type of farming. Recently, a new type of farming technology
was introduced which is called "technified." It was found that, in general,
farming practices change from "traditional" to "semi-technified" before
"technified" practices are applied. Direct changes from "traditional" to
"technified" farming were found to take place only rarely (for example,
such a change might occur where land is newly assigned to "Asentamientas de
Campesinos" which are supported by the National Institute of Agriculture.
The new land for "asentamientos" is expropriated from large farms. In recent



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
years, however, there has been no further demand among organized campesinos
for new "asentamientos" because additional land has become a limiting
factor of overall development in the region). The "without" project
situation was determined under the following assumptions:
-    Existing roads will be maintained in their present condition;
-    The average rate of increase of rural population will be lower
than in the past (3.5% p.a.) because the high past growth rate was
due to the existence of additional land. The lower growth rate
will, result from reduced migration figures. Natural growth rate is
assumed to be unchanged. Growth rate applied is 2.5% p.a. (equal to
national average);
-    Yields will rise at a rate of 2.5% p.a. in the region:  the diffi-
cult: access of farm machinery to fields impedes a higher standard
of mechanization. Rise of yields will be due to use of other
agricultural technologies (application of insecticides, fertilizer
etc.);
-    Add:Ltional land will not be incorporated since all potential addi-
tional land is already used for animal husbandry, for which the
need of transport facilities is minor;
-    Production patterns in cultivated area will remain unchanged;
-    Pro,luction costs of traditional farming will rise at a rate
of 5% p.a.;
-    Production costs of semi-technified farming will rise at a rate
of 4% p.a.;
-    Production costs of technified farming will rise at a rate of
3.5% p.a.;
-    Per capita consumption of locally produced crops remains unchanged;
-    It is assumed that farmgate prices remain unchanged.  In, the longer
term, prices vary considerably depending on production volumes.
However, if 1979 yields are used as the basis, prices are likely
to remain unchanged. Honduran statistics do not give indication
of significant price changes due to factors other than yield
fluctuations resulting from climatic conditions;
-    Exportable surplus will increase in accordance with the differences
in increased yields and increased total of local consumption due
to population increase;
-    Transport costs per ton and per passenger will remain unchanged as
well as the average trip length; and
-    Passenger transport will increase at the same rate as population.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
15.       "With" project situation.  The assumptions listed below reflect
the opinion of the regional offices of the Ministry of Natural Resources
(1lNR): "what c-n be expected if adequate access exists in the influence area."
All roads were proposed by regional offices of MNR. The main argument for
the proposals was that desired development (as considered by MNR to be
realistic) cannot be expected without adequate access. The main impact
was estimated to result from better accessibility of agricultural machinery.
It was argued that transfer of agricultural machinery is of crucial impor-
tance for the development of a subregion (= area of influence of a road).
In general, the owner of machinery (in Guayape Region, 5% of machinery is
state-owned whereas 95% is private) prefers to work in areas with easy
access because of more efficient and rapid transfer from one field to the
other.
16.       Further, a change of cropping pattern toward a higher percentage
of cotton cultivation can hardly be expected without good access to the
fields: in the case of cotton, cultivation, "technified" technology will
have to be applied if producers risk is to be kept within an acceptable
margin. This requires - besides access for agricultural machinery - access
for trucks to reach evacuation points. All other (traditional) goods are
brought to the village using ox-carts. In the village, the crops undergo
further processing. Transport of grain, for instance, will be from the
village to the market place. Roads numbers 13, 16, 12, 22, 24 and 26 serve
mainly production areas, and no major benefits will therefore accrue to
goods transport because there will be no major change in transport over
shorter distances.
17.       It was discussed with regional officials of MNR and concluded that:
-    Sufficient development cannot be achieved without the proposed road
construction because the efficiency of the extension service is to a
large extent dependent on access (one extensionist serves a given
area, which, under better access conditions, can be served more
intensively since all extensionists are equipped with cars);
-    Additional land will be incorporated at an annual rate of 1.5% p.a.
(limit to remain as pasture: No. of farmers x 0.2 ha). Where
more than 30% of additional land is available, incorporation rate
will be 3% p.a., more than 50% = 4% p.a. These rates are different
because pasture areas ( = additional land) are given more importance,
and additional land is the more scarce since cattle breeding is
traditionally given high priority in Guayape Region;
-    50% of traditional farming will be converted into semi-technified
farming and, equally, 50% of semi-technified farming will be converted
into technified farming. New land will be worked semi-technified;
-    Cotton cultivation will reach at least 20% of total cultivated area
(upper limit 40%). Within these limitations, cotton cultivation
will rise at an annual percentage of 2.5% (in areas where red
beans are cropped as main product, no cotton will be introduced);



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
-    Maize cultivation will decline in favor of cotton cultivation;
-    Percentage of rice cropping will remain unchanged;
-    Percentage of red beans cultivation will remain unchanged.;
-    Secondary cropping will remain at the same percentage;
-    Technology on secondary cropping will change in the same way
as mentioned for primary cropping;
-    Yields of each technology type will increase at an annual rate
of 2.5% (2.5% in secondary production); and
-    Quality of soils was found to be reasonably homogeneous, including
pasture areas; the cost of cultivating additional land is there-
fore. not significantly different from cultivation of existing
land..
18.       Calc:ulation of standardized benefit figures is based on the follow-
ing typical crop distribution in the present situation:
-     '"TraLditional" farming:  90% maize and 10% rice in primary cropping;
20% red beans in secondary cropping;
-    "Semi-technified" farming:  90% maize and 10% rice in primary
cropping; 5% maize and 15% red beans in secondary cropp:ing; and
-    "Technified" farming:  70% maize, 10% rice and 20% cotton
in primary cropping; 5% maize and 15% red beans in secondary
cropping.
Crop distribuition in the "without" and "with" case (1990) varies in accordance
with the above-mentioned assumptions (paras 14 and 15).
19.       In addition, individual evaluations were worked out for four roads
(No. 6: Catacamas - La Canoa; No. 8: Carr. Catacamas - El Hormiguero -
El Cerro; No. 13: Jutiquile - La Puzunca; No. 33: Manto - San Juan de
Jimasque). Calculations are based on the individual crop distribution in
each influence area.
May 1980



- 84 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 7
TABLE 1
GUAYAPE REGION: TRANSPORT COSTS (L per Km)
Flat Terrain                Rolling Terrain
Earth Road                     Earth Road
Means of Transport               Good           Bad            Good            Bad
Goods Transport
Lorry (truck)            0.82           0.90           0.90             1.04
Ox-cart                  0.38           0.40           0.40             0.12
Mule                     0.15           0.16            0.16            0.12
Passenger Transport
Light Vehicle            0.190          0.250          0.290            0.29
or minibus
Mule (horse)             0.15           0.16            0.16            0.17
Pedestrian               0.10           0.10           0.12             0.12
Cost of Transport
Per ton-Km
Lorry (truck)            0.07           0.08           0.08             0.09
Ox-cart                  0.76           0.80           0.80             0.84
Mule (horse)             1.50            1.60           1.60            1.70
Per Passenger-Km
Light Vehicle            0.011          0.014          0.012            0.016
or minibus
Mule (horse)             0.15           0.16           0.16             0.12
Pedestrian               0.10           0.10           0.12             0.12
Adjusted cost of Transport
Per ton-Km -/
Lorry (truck)            0.12(0.14)    0.13(0.16)    0.13(0.16)         0.15(0.18)
Ox-cart                  1.27(1.52)      1.34(1.60)    1.34(1.60)       1.40(1.68)
Mule (horse)             2.51(3.00)    2.62(3.30)    2.62(3.20)         2.84(3.40)
Per Passenger-Km 2/
Light Vehicle            0.022          0.028          0.024            0.032
or minibus
Mule (horse)             0.30           0.32           0.32             0.34
Pedestrian               0.30           0.20           0.24             0.24
1/  Reflecting the fact that approx. 80% of the return trips are without load.
Agricultural roads 100%; figures in parentheses).
2/  Reflecting the fact that all trips are "return trips", so that the adjusted
cost figures reflect cost per return-Km on the road.



- 85-                             ANNEX 3
Page 8
TABLE 2
GUAYAPE REGION: TRANSPORT COST SAVINGS
OF GOODS TRANSPORT (in L per ton-Km)
5   without      I     with
I       ~~1/                2/
5  Project -    I    Project -         Savings
I                I                I
Roads       !                 5
to village      I     0.82              0.35      0      0.52
Flat terrainll 
Roads to-/                       5,
agricultural   5      1.46       5       1.10     1      0.36
land51l
Roads to51l
village         1     0.97      053               55
Rolling terrain                    00                     
Roads to                                          5
agricultural   1      1.55       5       .115            0.40
land51l
I                II
1/ - 50% of goods transport is already being done by vehicle (trucks in dry season);
- Furthermiore, it has been assumed that 40% of goods transport is done by ox-carts
and 40% by animal (mule).
2t  - For impr-oved road, it is assumed that 80% of transport will lbe done by vehicle
and 20% by ox-carts.
3/  - On roads which serve only agricultural purposes (short-distaince traffic).
30% of t:ransport will be done by vehicle and 70% by ox-carts. As yet 10%
vehicle - 90% ox-carts.



- 86 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 9
TABLE 3
GUAYAPE REGION:  TRANSPORT COST SAVINGS (in L, per Passenger-Km)
___ ___Without Project         With Project -/ i   Savings/Km
Flat terrain          1            0.20                    0.13        1      0.07
I                         I                      I
I                         I                      I
Rolling terrain       I            0.23          1         0.14        1      0.09
1/  - It is assumed that 30% of passenger transport is done by animal (mule or
horse), 50% is walking, 20% is done by vehicles in the dry season.
2/  - For improved roads, it is assumed that 60% of passenger transport is done
by light vehicle (pick-up or minibus), 40% will be animal transport.
- For roads which serve only agricultural purposes, no passenger transport
will take place.
- It is assumed that 20 return-trips/person/year are undertaken at present.
- Improved transport facilities will increase the trip frequency by 2 for
each year.



- 87 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 10
TABLE 4
GUAYAPE REGION:  SUNMARY OF YIELDS, PRICES AND PRODUCTION COSTS
OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS IN 1979
a) "Traditional" farming:
Farmgate        Production    Production   Net production
Yields       price           value          costs  2/    value
CROP            tons/ha     L/ton           L/ton           L/ha          L/ha
Maize           1.63         241              393            116             277
Rice      1/   1.50         462               700            245             455
Red Beans -    0.60         658               395            197             198
Maize II -    0.90           291              262            113             149
b) "Semi-technified" farming:
Farmgate        Production    Production   Net production
Yields      price           value           costs  2/    value
CROP            tons/ha     L/ton           L/ton           L/ha         L/ha
Maize I         2.74         241              661            310             351
Rice        1'  2.50        462              1167            590             572
Red Beans  -p  0.76          658              500            274             226
Maize II   -   1.31          291              379           -242             132
Others  -       0.90        658               592            339             253
c)  "Technified" farming:
Farmgate        Production    Production   Net production
Yields      price           value           costs  2/    value
CROP            ton/ha      L/ton           L/ton          L/ha          L/ha
Maize I         3.91         241              943            550             393
Rice            3.58        467              1610           1020             652
Cotton      1'i  1.95       877              1710           1154             556
Red Beans  -   1.10         658               724            471             253
Maize II   -   1.90          291              553            344             209
Others  -       1.18        658               780            516             264
1/ Secondary cropping.
2/ Cost of own labor not included.
Aay 1980



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Sub-Sector
A.1 Highway Master Plan - Tams-Cerna Maier - December 1977
A.2 National Transport Plan 1979-1983 - CONSUPLANE
A.3 Colegio de Ingenieros de Honduras - Directorio Profesional - 1978
A.4 Listado de Companias a Precalificar Para la Construccion de Proyectos
Financiados con Fondos Nacionales - SECOPT - November 1979
A.5 Reglamento Especial Para la Recepcion e Incorporacion de Caminos a las
Red Vial de Mantenimento - Acuerdo No. 0720 - December 1979
B.   General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1  Programa de Asistencia Tecnica para el Mantenimiento de Carreteras -
Roy Jorgensen Assoc., Inc. - 4 Volumes:
(a) Informe Inicial - February 1980
(b) Especificaciones Tecnicas Equipo de Taller - April 1979
(c) Sistema de Administracion de Equipo
(d) Equipo-Mantenimiento Preventivo
B.2 Componente de Mantenimiento - SECOPT - November 1979
B.3 Addendum a Las Secciones 5 y 7 del Componente de Mantenimiento - SECOPT -
November 1979
B.4 Informe Final de Asistencia Tecnica a la Direccion General de Mantenimento
de Caminos y Aeropuertos - Jose J. Verhelst, Consultant - 2 Volumes dated
December 1978 and December 1979
B.5 Economic Feasibility of Maintenance Equipment and Training Program -
SECOPT/Roy Jorgensen Assoc., Inc. - February 1980
B.6 Plan Sobre la Implementacion de Caminos Vecinales - SECOPT - November 1979
B.7 Terminos de Referencia para la Ejecucion de Estudios Minimos de Ingenieria -
SECOPT - November 1978
B.8 Programa de Ejecucion de los Trabajos de Ingenieria de 225 km de Caminos
Vecinales en los Valles de Guayape, la Masica y Yoro - SECOPT - November
1979



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.9   Estudio Final de Ingenieria y Documentos de Licitacion de la Carretera
Rio Dulce-El Porvenir - Consultant INGECO -    Volumes - November 1979
B.10  Informe Final, Estudio y Diseno de la Carretera Danli-Santa Maria -
Consultant CONASH - May 1977
B.11  Ley de:L Instituto Nacional de Formacion Profesional (INFOP) - Decreto
Ley No. 10 - Diciembre 1972
B.12  Tabla con Caracteristicas Tecnicas para el Diseno Geometrico de Caminos
Secundarios - SECOPT - Febrero 1980
B.13  Informe Sobre la Factibilidad Economica de la Carretera Rio Dulce-
El Porvenir - SECOPT - November 1979 and March 1980
B.14  Informe Sobre la Factibilidad Economica de la Carretera Danli-Santa
Maria - SECOPT - March 1979 and March 1980
B.15  Informe Sobre la Factibilidad Economica de la Carretera Telica-San
Francisco de la Paz - SECOPT - March 1980
B.16  Report on the Preparation of the Rural Roads Component of the
Proposed Eighth Highway Project - GITEC - January 1980
C.    Selected Working Papers
C.1   Report. on Fleet Management - Andrew Mackie, Consultant - December 1979
0.2   Report: on the Training Component - Guiseppe Morra - November 1979
C.3   Report: on the Rural Roads Component - Ossic J. Rahkonen - January 1980
July 1980






HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SECRETARIAT FOR COMMUNICATIONS
PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
I                                                                                                                                                                                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I    Under Secretary                                                                                               Under SecretarY
for                                                                                                          for 
Public Works                                                                                                C      rmmunications
I                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Transport 
Technica       |                  _
l                                                        ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Advisors:         dvsr          
Internal                                Setoa
Audit                                  Pann
!                                              IIllxennl                                                              Ofc
General|
| Administration                                 
| | ~~~~GENERAL DIRECTORATESr.II
Highways                 Mitnce                   Civil Works            Urban Works                         Civil Aeronautics    L      National     l          os Offices    lTaso 
1                                                                                                                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nttt  -o
L.            --  -  -  -  -  - _- -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - _  __       SEMI-AUTONOMOUS AGENCIES_-o,                                  --  -  -  -  -  -- _    - -  -  -  -  - _--  ____   
ENEE                    FNH                  HONDUTEL    |             NA           ll                     BANAFOM           |         N                  Atrplogy                CATASTRO
| (El ctricity)            (Railways),  |   (Telecommunications) |        Huig)                             (  Development Bank)          Pn)          ll       adHsoy               (Cadastral Survey)
World Bonk -21177



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR HIGHWAYS
Director
General
Sub-Director
DEPARTMENTS
Studies                                                                                                 Labor Based
and                            Construction                        Administration                     Construction
Designs                 F       c 
USAID                            Planning                          Suervision                           Accounting
Projects
0                                                                                                                       Personnel Highway   l  _|  Right-Of-Way  Personnel
uu  m         Projects                            Designs___
x
w
IBRD                              Structural                       Coordination
of                               Purchases
Projects                            Designs                         Consultants
Feeder Roads                         oordination
Section                               of                                                                 Inventories
Consultants
Materials                                                              Wrhue
and           l                                            |       Warehouses
Tegucigalpa                 Sn Pedro Sula
Laboratory                    Laboratory
World Bank -21179



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR
MAINTENANCE OF HIGHWAYS AND AIRPORTS
Director     . 
DEPARTMENTS                                                                                   
Equaiment                       Technical                                      Maintenance                                    Administration                     Personnel                      Training
Transportation                    Studies
-|  Inspectors              p H  IPograng                  Cui  P                           Tegucigalpa                      Accounting
No.2 
Olanchor
l  Las To,,rres                7 Design and            .       Major Asphalt                     No. 3
ITegucilalpal                       Drawings                            Works                       Choluteca
(Tag, ~~~~~~0,1a lComyagaa
|San PedJro Sula                       |Field l- iprsllSnido|  amns|
Workshop                       Supervision 
|   No. 5i  
|  aCeiba          r
.          ~~~No. 7                         Central
_   LaboratorVy l       _      Signalization                  S RCopan DeWarehouse
|  No. 8      
Tocoa!
4   Asphalt Plant                                                                B
World Bank-21178



HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
FOUR YEAR TRAINING PROGRAM (1981-1984)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1981                       1982                       1983                         1984
DESCRIPTI ON
1     2      3      4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4
-7 m   n  v                        v n  m  r -I -T7 F                                      r  F IT
EXPATR IATES
TRAINING ADVISOR                               l
CH I EF OF RTPU                            _      ___
CH IEF OF MTPU
MECHANICS INSTRUCTORS (2)
OPERATORS INSTRUCTORS (2)
LOCAL
DEPUTY CHIEF OF RTPU                             _                                         -
DEPUTY CHIEF OF MTPU                                                   -            -                           -
MECHANICS INSTRUCTORS (2)                                -
OPERATORS INSTRUCTORS (2)                                       -             -     -      -             -      -                    -
WAREHOUSE INSTRUCTOR
SOURCE: SECOPT AND CONSULTANT JORGENSEN
APRIL 1980
World Bank - 21595



CHART 5
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980              1981               1982              1983              1984
DESCRIPTION~
DESCR IPTION    1   2   3 4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
__~~~~ T                      lF  i   rr iT   T  iT   T                     Tr TT  T  i   -T Tr f   i i-iTrii  iTrT
1 FEEDER ROADS PROGRAM
GROUP I
a) GUAYAPE VALLEY
ADVERTISING THROUGH CONTRACTING
EXECUTION                                               _
b) LA MASICA VALLEY
ADVERTISING THROUGH CONTRACTING
EXECUTION                                                                   _  _         __ _ _
c) YORO VALLEY
ADVERTISING THROLGH CONTRACTING
EXECUTION                                                                           _                  _   -
GROUP II
d) OTHER VALLEYS
ADVERTtSING THROLIGH CONTRACTING
EXECUTION                                           _                           =   =
e) SUPERVISION-                                                 -    - -      - - - -- m                                    -
2. IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY ROADS
a) RIO DULCE-EL PORVENIR
ADVERTISING THROIJGH CONTRACTING
EXECUTION                                               _
b) DANLI-SANTA MARIA
ADVERTISING THROJGH CONTRACTING
EXECUJTION                                                   -        -        -
cl TELICA-SAN FCO DE LA PAZ
ADVERTISING THROUGH CONTRACTING
EXECUTION                                                                                -   - _   _
d) SUPERVISION                                         -             -        -   -   - _
3. MAINTENANCE PROGRAIM
a) MAINTENANCE WORKS                                       -             -   -   -   -   - _ _  _
b) PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT
ADVERTISING THROUGH CONTRACTING
EQUIPMENT DELIVERIES                                         -                 - _                - _
cI PURCHASE OF SPARE PARTS                                 - -           - -           - - - - --
d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       _
FOR ROAD MAINTENqANCE                                            -         - -- --
FOR TRAINING/                              _     -               -   -                    _           -         _
11 SEE SEPARATE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE WORLD BANK-21595
SOURCE: SECOPT AND MISSION
APRIL 1980                                                                                                          World Bank - 21596






-                    | s  F t ! aIBRD  14823R
B  E    L       I Z  E;RARATA  /A _TANA                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ii
!              TE CA  P'T  F   N:A ILARD  ISLAND                                                                     K
CA,RIB EAN                                               RtANTA|L NISNARA                     SEA                                                                              ,/ERI/i/        RA_/TE/OTi /0OA
| ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,.  RU/                                8 /-0'DIP4  EA N<                                                                    SEA                                                                                      A  AwAsh[AAGI
J, J  A  T   E  M   A                                                               ,                                                                                                         -o
I / zAcurE z)                                                  .s           9      ' ii YORO_j/--   -  .E------T.\:GR AN  C                 RI A                  S                                               -4                                   ADI 0i5, - v RC  
p      A.-        -AA-
U.  HYAC-SHA    5155./ES    >0    /~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P"T3  ASE
I nr    N f  X   W   W                      MA N HIG                                                PUERTO N-
2'                                            55/U P UI/RAUT>  \ SMAR Pi% /_sAN  SUAN\  FRTNiHAY P                                                                                          JCTUg 5H
G                           U                     / TA  EA               L                                  S/AS                    S AN A AAT  AIS E    M                                                                               _   A
C                                                                                                                                                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PIMIEN                                                               -j~N-.-, 
B  A  R   )t         MAhCALA _Sy 9] J <0 5AN                                                  LA UNION~                                                          ~ t 0   r O.BRtmctiE of  rsir                   O      EC    RA1
-;~~Al C,  N                                                                   L              N                                   E                               L ~~~-  AIN     MIGH AYNET OR
OC4MA5CA  2-ti   I AGUACATALt  }  L NA A  )z  IzuscARAN   t.hirNDtOS,    T_   hs       ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          SGAN SI/iDHP ROS C   ETS TN  hA
Atu iitut   m   s A    <     N-  /tORO *i!;;;zu s  ANO   y                                                             GNfi/aft sTUTUe MARS                  TSR T_.HWAY PROJECT  CI  IbB  HUI
J  RT                                                                                                                                                                                vur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /iH//i/i/ ei/TA/l/ H-i9iH
EA  L  S                                                                                L            R        ry                                                                           FO Rh *74 HH      PS       Ts  UT  C/i/C//HiT
>?~~~~ A/ CT/-                       SA-CS  rL H49't                                (                      ---                                                              lIlA/iS/AD PRwn2TnsCCrs u r e /L/i/  catU/UniS   pHAs le
--__                                                                             IL A  Ils/  MA/Al A  IN   A                                                            AUC  S T   S/D r
P4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-    / /FE  CCP4S MAYSC  1__.                                                                                                 AN/SIHT  NHTTH                          5/95TH< I///U/A  PRmA   EU/ A// P/SI yii    SIO  r
-13' PrR                                      t/ PE___
S   I/N/JICS    N~/i               ET/O ES R-TE//S,R                                                                                                  H/N//U////      /iCH 5-HH1
HLE.                   N T I B U                                       A~~~~~~~H STCOAT   -MAIN ASi/iT                                                                                                               /H/// HJGHWHi//AY             NETWOR
AT     NFRSAHGHAY0R'si                                                                                                                                                                     L    13- O
4)I  A  BAI   IA    L                                      I    AHSPC         /UT
A   A/A NITA     5O~~~~~~~   /           'NS    \ 5 u./1                                                                                                      R O  R/ T HC-TT   H OT T C /H T .
~~~l TA                                                                                                                                                                                              SECOND~~~/TS/P/C/TT THS TRTATY RCa/T /iT/A/H   19i 1/h   //
IAN                                                    Iz        L~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  A JO/ASS  /A- /-f//RNP.d-
/9  0/14,       C             /Ad     fp-f  -N Hco.
- 7 AAiA/A  TA      F/THHI A   2                                                                                                                                                CTN. 9-O
5/ hORS IS/AND TI MHERTQ  /t   CUNCEEC ON ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     dOd-d                       C    ~     l-- -  ,,L   ~     N              H,h,.
AN                                                                 A.QS~~~~~~~~U MRAN                      5          S           0           /
E   L             S A   LT V   A/HT//D//CH//H5/L/i//H//H/T/iH//T/,iHT/P                                                                                                                                               T 



