Document of
The World Bank   FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                 a
Repirt No. P-2868-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its centents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bfk l:uthoratlom.



-  HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Lempira (L)
US$1.00         =    L 2.00
L 1             -    US$0.50
L 1,000,000     -    US$500,000
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                        3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)      2            0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km 3     =    0.386 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI       -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
COHDEFOR    -   Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Honduran Forestry Development Corporation)
CONADI      -   Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(National Investment Corporation)
CONSUPLANE  -   Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica
(Economic Planning Council)
DGH         -   Directorate General for Highways
DGM         -   Directorate General for Maintenance of
Highways and Airports
DGT         -   Directorate General for Transport
ENP         -   Empresa Nacional Portuaria
(National Port Authority)
FNH         -   Ferrocarril Nacional de Honduras
(National Railroad of Honduras)
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
IHCAFE      -   Instituto Hondureno del Cafe
(Honduran Coffee Institute)
MTPU        -  Mechanical Training Production Unit
OECD        -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
RTPU        -   Road Training Production Unit
SECOPT      -   Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas
y Transporte
(Secretariat of Communications, Public Works
and Transport)
USAID       -   US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:                        Republic of Honduras
Amount:                          US$28.0 million equivalent
Terms:                           Twenty years, including five years of
grace, at 9.25 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:             The project is designed to assist the
Government's efforts to facilitate access
to and from rural areas, to protect past
investments in the highway network and to
continue institutional improvements in
highway administration. The project comprises
(i) construction of about 350 km of feeder
roads in selected agricultural valleys; (ii)
improvement of about 115 km of secondary roads
which serve rural areas; (iii) purchase of
maintenance and workshop equipment, including
spare parts; and (iv) technical assistance
for maintenance management and training. The
construction of feeder roads involves a cer-
tain amount of risk because it is part of a
larger program, also being financed by IDB
and USAID, which could strain the capacity of
the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) to
carry out this type of work; this risk has
been minimized by carefully coordinating the
efforts of the three financing agencies, by
assuring additional staffing for DGH, and by
providing for annual reviews of DGH's entire
feeder roads program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                   US$ Millions Equivalent
Local        Foreign        Total
Construction of feeder roads                  3.5           3.5           7.0
Improvement of secondary roads                3.6           5.5           9.1
Supervision of construction                   0.8           0.9           1.7
Maintenance and workshop equipment
and spare parts                           1.1           9.9           11.0
Technical assistance and training             0.4           1.6           2.0
Baseline total                            9.4          21.4           30.8
Physical contingencies                        0.8           1.0           1.8
Price contingencies                           2.6           5.6           8.2
Total Project Cost                       12.8          28.0          40.8 1/
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Millions Equivalent
Local        Foreign        Total
Government                                   12.8            -           12.8
Bank                                           -           28.0          28.0
Total                                     12.8          28.0           40.8
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Millions
Bank FY                           1981   1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                                  2.0   12.9       7.7-    3.4      2.0
Cumulative                              2.0   14.9    22.6    26.0    28.0
Rate of Return:                    Feeder roads - For each road will at least
equal 11 percent; of those roads already
selected, rates of return typically exceed
20 percent;
Secondary roads and Maintenance and Training
Program - 47 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:           Report No. 2971b-HO, dated July 18, 1980.
1/ The project is tax exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Government of Honduras for the equivalent of US$28.0 million for
an Eighth Highway Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, includ-
ing 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 24, 1978. Bank missions visited Honduras during January and
November 1979 to review recent economic performance. The main findings of
these missions are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Partly because of rapid population growth, real per capita GNP grew
by only one percent a year during 1950-75. While the population of Honduras
was only 3.4 million in 1979 and its density is low (30 per square kilometer),
it is growing at 3.3 percent a year. Both birth and death rates have begun to
decline; but mortality rates have declined more rapidly and thus population
growth remains high. The Government is demonstrating a growing awareness of
this problem; family planning services are now available through public and
private health facilities. The Ministry of Health's family planning program
provided visits in 1979 to the equivalent of about 9 percent of the fertile-
age women. The private Honduran Family Planning Association, an affiliate of
the International Planned Parenthood Association, supports two clinics in San
Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa, with a coverage of another 3 percent of the
fertile female population. External assistance to these and other smaller
programs comes from the United Nations, private organizations and USAID. The
Government effort, however, is still limited because of some domestic opposi-
tion and a weak health infrastructure.
4.        Honduras' per capita GNP in 1978, US$480, is one of the lowest in
the Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from a variety of
indicators. Malnutrition is severe: about three quarters of pre-school
children are believed to suffer from protein and caloric deficiencies. About
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Report for the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (P-2743-HO) dated May 6, 1980.



- 2 -
67 and 43 percent of all Hondurans have diets somewhat deficient in calories
and proteins, respectively. Infant mortality is estimated at 118 per thousand
live births. Roughly 54 percent of the population has no access to safe piped
water and about 76 percent is lacking any form of sanitary waste disposal.
Furthermore, these are country averages which conceal substantial regional
disparities as living conditions in the rural areas, which account for two
thirds of the population, are much worse than in the cities.
5.         A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance during 1950-75
was the continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of
a few agricultural commodities, especially bananas and coffee, whose prices
depend on a fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly
influenced by weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated
when extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in
1974 reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one half the
level of 1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3
percent. A serious lack of basic infrastructure, uneven land distribution,
and deficient credit, technical services, and development programs kept non-
banana agricultural growth far below its potential. Furthermore, the country's
sizeable forest resources were subject to wasteful exploitation/practices,
widespread burning, and uncertain ownership. In addition, the mountainous
topography of the country has made the expansion of the road network slow and
costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, including the establish-
ment of a basic transportation network connecting the main population centers
and a considerable expansion of electric power service.
Government Development Efforts,
6.         Since 1972, development efforts have accelerated; several measures
have laid the basis for the country's improved longer-term economic prospects.
A land reform program, begun in 1972, and strengthened and expanded through
comprehensive legislation in 1975, aims at greatly improving land utilization
as well as increasing the income and employment of the poorer peasants through
the transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the nationaliza-
tion of timber rights in 1974. A new forestry law established guidelines for
private sector forestry participation and created the state-owned Honduran
Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). In the same year, the Government
established the National Investment Corporation (CONADI), to promote and
finance industrial projects. Furthermore, improvements in Government planning
and cS :uting capacity resulted in a substantial increase in public fixed in-
vestment from an average 4.9 percent of GDP in 1968-72 to 6.6 percent in 1974,
and 10.1 percent in 1978. The Government has also made an effort to increase
investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthen public finances
through tax reforms and better tax administration. A 1975 tax reform made the
tax on coffee exports ad valorem, with marginal rates ranging from 10 percent
to 20 percent depending on coffee prices; substituted a 3 percent value added
tax for the sales tax; and raised the tax rates on beer, cigarettes and liquor.
Partly as a result, current Central Government receipts increased from 13.2
percent of GDP in 1970 to 15.3 percent in 1978.



-3-
Recent Developments
7.        During 1974-75, the Honduran economy was adversely affected by one
of the worst hurricanes in its history, by the oil price rise of 1974, and
by the OECD recession. GDP remained almost stagnant, severe balance of
payments difficulties arose, and the country's savings capacity was seriously
reduced. Honduras, however, recovered during 1976-78. A much higher level of
public investment, the gradual recovery of banana production, an extraordinary
increase of coffee prices (which doubled in 1976 and again in 1977), and
dynamic private fixed investment (7.4 percent real increase yearly) were the
major factors responsible. Real GDP grew at about 7.4 percent a year, or
almost double the long-term growth rate recorded during 1950-75. The rate of
inflation reached 6.4 percent a year, mostly fueled by imported inflation and
domestic difficulties with basic grain crops.
8.        Although merchandise exports grew 27 percent a year in dollar terms
during 1976-78 as a result of higher coffee prices and the partial recovery
of banana production, imports grew at a 20 percent rate and the balance of
payments continued to show large current account deficits. Expansionary
policies which led to the more rapid economic and investment growth had an
immediate effect on imports into the small economy. Net foreign exchange
reserves, however, increased as a result of greater disbursements of foreign
loans, and by the end of 1978 were US$135 million, equivalent to about two
months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
9.        Central Government finances during 1976-78 reflected the economic
performance. Current revenues increased rapidly (21 percent yearly) but
current expenditures grew almost equally fast and current savings showed only
a modest improvement. As a result, the large increment in capital expendi-
tures was largely financed by foreign credits. The increase in Central
Government current revenues between 1975 and 1978 resulted from higher income
and property tax collections; almost a tripling of export and import tax
revenues (including an increase of coffee taxes from US$4 million in 1975 to
US$32 million in 1978); and a rapid increase in receipts from domestic taxes.
Current expenditures for wages, goods and services, and transfers showed large
percentage increases. Higher wage expenditures resulted from expanded employ-
ment (7 percent annually) and higher nominal wages (about 9 percent annually).
The Government expanded significantly operating expenditures for education,
health, and defense. About 57 percent of the new Government posts created
were teaching positions. Budgeted expenditures for education increased by
81 percent from 1975 to 1978; health expenditures doubled; and defense expen-
ditures increased by 80 percent.
10.       In 1979, the Honduran economy continued its much improved growth
performance.  Real GDP growth is estimated at about 6.5 percent owing mainly
to larger export volumes than in 1978 and increased public expenditures. GDY,
however, increased little because the terms of trade deteriorated by about
13 percent. In spite of larger export volumes of coffee (15 percent) and
bananas (26 percent), lower coffee prices slowed export earnings growth and,
coupled with rapidly rising import prices, resulted in a sharp decline in the
terms of trade. The annual average rate of inflation accelerated to about



4 -
8.8 percent, mostly because of inoorted inflation and higher domestic prices
for housing and food products, partly related to the influx of Nicaraguan
refugees. Towards the end of the year, however, inflation accelerated to an
annual rate of 19 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments increased from US$154 million in 1978 to about US$183 million in
1979 as exports of goods grew 20 percent and imports (CIF) 18 percent, fueled
by higher import prices and the expansion of economic activity. While Central
Government current revenues grew rapidly, they were nevertheless outpaced by
current expenditures; as a result, current savings declined from 1.1 percent
of GDP in 1978 to 0.5 percent of GDP in 1979. Public fixed investment is
estimated at about 9.9 percent of GDP, a slight decrease with respect to 1978.
Prospects and Devel opment_ograms
11.       Real GDP growth, while expected to remain well above historic levels,
is likely to be less than in 1977-79, and to average about 5.6 percent a year
during 1980-83. The main reason for the deceleration is the expected lower
export growth. Exports (in constant prices) may increase by about 7.0 percent
a year, compared to 17.2 percent in 1978-79, since banana production has
already recovered significantly and coffee production completed a cyclical
peak in the 1979/80 harvest. Further output expansion will be slower than in
the recent past. Export growth would depend mainly on lumber exports (made
possible by the expansion of sawmill capacity now underway) together with
increased beef and sugar production, expansion of fruit and vegetable produc-
tion for export, and promotion of tourism. The prospects for export expansion
within Central America have been affected by the political unrest in the
region. A slower growth of the quantum of total exports coupled with higher
levels of imports, partly fueled by rising public investment, will likely
result in continued moderately high deficits in the current account of the
balance of payments durino 1980-83.  Private investment is expected to show
less dynamism, as CONADI's support for large private projects may have peaked
since most of its existing projects are being completed and few significant
new projects have been identified. Within certain parameters dictated by the
public sector's revenue and indebtedness capability, public expenditures,
both current and capital-, maY be a positive factor for GDP growth. Real
current expenditures are expected to increase at rates slightly above those
of GDP, although some restraint is needed to insure adequate public savings.
Real public investment is expected to average about 10-11 percent of GDP
during 1980-83.
12.       The public investment program for 1980-83 calls for large invest-
ments to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's develop-
ment process and expand productive activities. The program includes investments
for infrastructure, particularly for power and transport; for export diversifi-
cation, mainly through forestry development; for agricultural development to
advance the agrarian reform program and increase rural productivity; and for
health, particularly potable water. Fixed investments will be supplemented by
growing credit programs for agriculture and industry. Full implementation of
this program is not likely because of limitations in administrative capacity
to prepare and implement Projects, particularly in the rural and social
sectors. Nevertheless, the public sector's administrative capacity to prepare



- 5 -
and execute projects has shown a marked improvement in the past few years.
This is reflected in the doubling of the share of public investment in GDP
since the early 1970's and has made it reasonable to expect that the major
components of the program, some of which have been under preparation for a
number of years, will be implemented in a relatively timely manner.
13.       Power investments will be the largest of the proposed program,
averaging about 40 percent of public fixed investment, mostly because of the
large, lumpy investment required for the El Cajon hydroelectric project. This
high share is justified in view of the need to provide adequate power supply
to an economy expected to grow at a higher long term rate than in the past.
Expenditures on imported oil and lubricants were US$113 million (13.4 percent
of merchandise imports) in 1979 compared to only US$14.7 million (6.6 percent
of merchandise imports) in 1970. Rising prices and the expanded domestic
demand would bring about a much larger bill for imported oil in the future.
Clearly Honduras has to pursue a policy to minimize the negative balance of
payments impact of its dependence on foreign energy sources. The El Cajon
project will contribute significantly toward this goal in the 1980's. Honduras,
however, has to continue looking for other sources of energy. Through a project
financed by a recently approved Bank loan (Loan 1861-HO, signed on June 23,
1980), the Government will step up efforts to promote oil exploration by
private companies. The Government is also examining areas which appear to
have potential for geothermal development, is studying the use of woodwaste
for small steam power plants and is investigating gasohol possibilities,
and, to a lesser extent, wind power and biogas prospects.
14.       Forestry investments include four relatively large sawmills.  Trans-
port investments will also be large and include the roads for the sawmills
in the Olancho region, further rural roads, the expansion of the trunk highway
system and a new port for wood product exports. Agricultural investments
will be focused on rural development projects for three major valleys: Aguan,
Guayape and Comayagua. Health investments will be concentrated on water
supply and medical facilities for Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and provincial
towns, as well as for expanded health services in rural areas. Special efforts
are underway to train nurses and other auxiliary health personnel, which will
facilitate stepped up health and family planning activities in the future.
Three-fifths of educational investments are for primary schools; one-fifth is
for the university; agricultural and vocational training institutions will
receive 13 percent. A nutritional planning unit has been established; programs
under consideration by it will provide for widened food distribution and
vaccine coverage for school children and expectant mothers.
15.       The Government has declared its intention to mobilize additional
domestic resources needed to support prudently its ambitious development
program. For this purpose, it put through a tax package which will increase
revenues of the Central Government by about 1.6 percent of GDP in 1980. Other
measures are expected to include a reduction of annual current expenditure
growth from 22 percent in 1976-78 and 17 percent in 1979 to 14.5 percent in
1980 and the following years; higher tariffs for public enterprises, particu-
larly electricity and port tariffs; and, if necessary, further reforms of the
tax system. In addition, the Government has established ceilings for total



- 6 -
public fixed investment (about 11 percent of GDP). To avoid excessive
pressures on the balance of payments and the domestic price level, the Govern-
ment is also expected to increase credit only slightly faster than nominal
GDP. Interest rates have been raised to keep them in line with external
market conditions and to stimulate savings deposits. Based on its development
program, the Government earlier this year negotiated with the IMF a loan
package totalling about US$75 million (of which US$57 million is from the
Extended Fund Facility). The three-year EFF arrangement provides Fund re-
sources in support of sound overall economic and financial policies during the
implementation of the public investment program; the latter should strengthen
substantially the balance of payments in the mid-1980s by reducing significant-
ly the fuel import requirement of the economy and by generating increased ex-
ports, particularly lumber and wood products. However, given the present and
foreseeable poverty of the country, even with the above measures, Honduras
needs external assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component of devel-
opment projects suitable for international finance to enable the Government to
implement its public investment program. The large size of this program, the
political uncertainty now prevailing in the Central American region, and past
volatility in Honduras' export receipts have led the authorities to agree with
the Bank on annual reviews of the investment program and its financing pros-
pects. We plan to continue monitoring closely Honduras' progress.
External Financing
16.       As the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports
related to the public investment program, the current account deficit is
expected to increase to about US$329 million by 1983 (about 9.7 percent of
GDP) and, as a result, large capital inflows will be required. The bulk of
the external financing requirements is expected to be met through public bor-
rowing. Honduras will require an estimated gross capital inflow of US$1.1
billion during 1980-83, of which over US$360 million will be disbursed
from commitments made through the end of 1979.
17.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$591.1 million at the end of 1978, US$917.9 million if undis-
bursed commitments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep
its external debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost
all on concessionary terms. The debt service ratio at the end of 1978 was
¾16 percent. It is important that the country continue to borrow on reason-
- Iy soft eDverage terms in view of the country's poverty, the fact that it
w-il carti-,ue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile price
prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply reduced
the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful in
obtaining aboum two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment pro-
gram on terms - -7ilar to those offered by the international lending agencies,
the debt service ratio is likely to rise to about 13 percent in 1986 and 15
percent in 1992. Continued maintenance of Honduras' creditworthiness will
depend on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements its major pub-
lic investment projects; on careful, continued demand management, including
cautious use of non-concessionary borrowing; and on export promotion policies.



18.       The Bank Group holds about a quarter of the disbursed public debt
outstanding and repayable in foreign currency; excluding IDA, the Bank's share
is about 18 percent. About half of the IDB's total loans disbursed and out-
standing are repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the disbursed
public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 10.5 percent. CABEI accounts
for 15.0 percent of the total, the US Government for 14.2 percent, Venezuela
for 13.2 percent, privately held debt for about 18.9 percent and other debt
for 2.9 percent.
19.       During 1970-79, the principal external lending agencies active in
Honduras committed some US$1 billion at FY79 prices, of which the IDB provided
38.3 percent, the Bank Group 30.4 percent, CABEI 22.3 percent and USAID, 9.0
percent. IDB has concentrated on agriculture, manufacturing, water and sewerage,
transport, power, education and housing; CABEI on transport, power and manufac-
turing, and USAID on agriculture and education (see Annex I, page 6). It is
expected that USAID and CABEI will continue lending primarily in the same
sectors in the future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture, forestry,
transport, industry and power.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS 1/
20.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received 23 Bank loans totalling US$380.7 million and 12 IDA
credits totalling US$85.1 million, both net of cancellations. The most recent
operation, a US$3.0 million loan for the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project, was approved on May 29, 1980. Bank Group lending to Honduras has
been unusually large recently, both because of the Government's stepped-up
investment program and because of the major, lumpy investment in the El Cajon
Power Project, for which a US$105.0 million loan and US$20.0 million credit
were approved on March 11, 1980 (Loan 1805-HO signed on March 27, 1980,
and Credit 989-HO signed on April 10, 1980). While we hope to continue to
support actively Honduras' development efforts, the annual Bank Group lending
level will be lower now that the El Cajon operation has been approved. An
important factor which will be taken into account in determining the pace and
size of future lending will be the Government's capacity to implement its
large ongoing program and to absorb further operations (see paragraph 12
above). As of May 31, 1980 a total of US$241.9 million remained to be
disbursed on 15 operations for electricity, roads, education, agricultural
credit, ports, regional development, industrial credit, tourism and petroleum
exploration.  Execution of projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the
whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of May 31, 1980, as well as notes on
the execution of on-going projects.
21.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on Bank Group
operations in the President's Report for the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project (P-2743-HO) dated May 6, 1980.



- 8 -
then, while lending for power and transport has continued, diversification of
our lending has increased through operations for a Second Livestock Project;
a First Education Project, which included as major components primary and
secondary teacher training schools, and support for vocational training
centers and the national agricultural secondary school; a First Agricultural
Credit Project to finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on
assisting agrarian reform settlements through investment credits and a substan-
tial technical assistance program; a Second Education Project to help finance
rural primary schools and agricultural vocational education; a Regional
Development Project to assist small farmers and agrarian reform settlements
in the Guayape Valley; an Industrial Credit Project to provide funds primarily
to small and medium manufacturing firms and firms proposing priority projects
in the wood industry; a Tourism Development Project to contribute to the
diversification of the sources of Honduras' foreign exchange earnings; a
Second Agricultural Credit Project to continue financing livestock and crop
development, with increasing attention to small-scale and agrarian reform
farmers, and to initiate a pilot reforestation program; and the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project to help attract more private investment in
offshore petroleum exploration.
22.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities
of the Government's investment program by continuing emphasis on investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform efforts.
A number of rural development projects covering many of the major valleys with
good agricultural potential are now being studied. We also expect to extend
further assistance to the expansion of educational opportunities, particularly
for the rural population. We would also help finance activities to strengthen
the balance of payments and diversify exports, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure where there are still deficiencies to be overcome.
For example, the proposed project places emphasis on maintenance of existing
roads and on assisting the construction of a network of feeder roads to
support the Government's agricultural program.
23.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain at about one quarter during the
1980s. The IBRD share of public external debt service has dropped substan-
tially since the early 1970s because of increasing lending by other external
agencies and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The IBRD share is now
about 20 percent and is projected to remain at this level through the 1980s.
24.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity invest-
ment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000 respectively, in a tannery, Empresa de
Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity investment
of US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1969 and 1970 equity investments
totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America, S.A., which was established to develop an industrial project
based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve. Although this company is no
longer involved in this project, IFC has assisted the Government of Honduras
in creating an organizational structure and selecting a technical partner for
the project. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0 million and an equity
investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V., a locally



- 9 -
owned textile company, to help finance an expansion and diversification
project. IFC continues working with CONADI and local private investors
in developing other investment opportunities in the country.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
25.       Distances in Honduras are relatively short and the terrain is
rugged, which has resulted in substantial reliance on roads and road transport,
except in the northern coastal strip where railways specializing in banana
transport operate. The primary road network is centered around the cities of
San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa. Most of the important agricultural areas have
all-weather road access to major urban centers and to ports.
26.       Aside from infrastructure to serve the banana industry, major
development of the transport network began only in the mid-1950's with the
construction of the Interamerican highway in southern Honduras; a modern
all-weather road between Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula was not completed
until 1970. Modernization of the principal port, Puerto Cortes on the Atlantic
coast, did not begin until the creation of the National Port Authority (ENP)
in 1965. Investment in transport infrastructure increased significantly in
the 1970's and the modern all-weather primary highway network is today virtually
completed.
Highways
27.       Overview - The very rough topography of the country, characterized
by several mountain ranges, makes the development of the road infrastructure
difficult and expensive. In 1960, there were about 3,230 km of roads, of
which only 110 km were paved. However, due to the major Government effort
to expand it, by 1979 the road network had grown to about 8,540 km, of which
1,610 km were paved. With the primary system practically completed, the
Government is now placing emphasis on proper maintenance programs to protect
past investments in highways and on feeder and secondary roads development
to ensure that the country has an internal transport network which will serve
all its important productive areas and help improve the living conditions of
the rural population. The Government's concern to improve rural access is
closely related to its agricultural and rural development policies. For
example, in determining the location of feeder roads, high priority is given
to areas suitable for settling farmers under the Government's agrarian
reform program.
28.       Organization and Administration - The Secretariat of Communications,
Public Works and Transport (SECOPT) is in charge of planning, designing, con-
structing and maintaining all roads in the country, except for a few roads
being built by the Instituto Hiondureno del Cafe (IHCAFE) to connect coffee
plantations with the main network and by COHT)EFOR for forestry development.
SECOPT's highway activities are carried out through two main Directorates:



- 10 -
the Directorate General for Highways (DGH), which is responsible for the design
and construction of roads, and the Directorate General for Maintenance of
Highways and Airports (DGM), which maintains the main road network. Over the
last three years, the Government has undertaken a number of reforms in highway
planning and administration with the assistance of individual consultants or
consulting firms. For instance, (a) a Highway Master Plan was prepared in
1977 and is being used for highway investment planning; (b) a training program
for highway personnel was started under the Bank-financed Seventh Highway
Project (Loan 1341T-HO/1342-HO of December 16, 1976) and will be expanded
substantially under the proposed project; and (c) studies are being carried
out to reorganize DGH and its soils and materials laboratories and to improve
operations of the local construction industry.
29.       The improvement of highway administration is somewhat hampered
by the low salary scales for civil servants, which has caused many of SECOPT's
qualified and trained staff to leave for better opportunities in the private
sector. A revision of the salary scales, however, to permit higher salaries
for these personnel would have far-reaching effects on the whole public sector
and would run against current efforts to restrain the rate of growth of public
expenditures, especially recurrent operating expenses. As an alternative, in
order to retain an adequate number of engineers and technicians, SECOPT has
been authorized to enter into personal service contracts with qualified
personnel at salaries higher than those paid to civil servants. SECOPT's
yearly budget includes a global amount for this purpose. In 1979, out of a
total of 70 engineers and 55 engineering students engaged in highway works,
SECOPT had 17 engineers and five students employed on this basis. Considering
the constraints mentioned above, the present arrangements are considered
adequate. However, it has been agreed that the Government will consult
periodically with the Bank to ensure continued adequate staffing of SECOPT
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(e)(i)).
30.       Planning - The highway planning process has improved over the years
through the use of the Highway Master Plan as one of the main bases for selec-
tion and programming of projects. SECOPT staff have a good understanding of
how to conduct economic analysis of projects, and the road investment program
is increasingly well justified on the basis of engineering and economic
feasibility studies. However, SECOPT still has limited capacity for identifi-
cation and selection of projects based on specified criteria and for across-
the-board planning. The next important improvement would be to institute
systematic collection of traffic data to support continuing planning. The 13
weighing stations throughout Honduras are equipped with traffic counters and
the Directorate General for Transport (DGT) in SECOPT is preparing administra-
tive procedures for the systematic collection and evaluation of traffic data.
It has been agreed that SECOPT will establish a countrywide system of traffic
counts no later than January 1, 1982, and will update the Highway Master Plan
no later than June 30, 1983 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(d)).
31.       Maintenance - SECOPT is aware of the importance of good maintenance
of its road network, and, in order to increase the efficiency of maintenance
operations, DGM was reorganized as a separate directorate in early 1976.
Routine highway maintenance is carried out by DGM by force account through its



- 11 -
eight maintenance districts. Major equipment repairs are carried out in the
two regional workshops in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula. The Tegucigalpa
workshop has been recently expanded with a new building and the new San Pedro
Sula regional workshop was substantially completed in May 1980. Since the
completion and operation of the San Pedro Sula workshop are essential for the
proper repair of the equipment in use or to be used in northern Honiduras, it
would be a condition of disbursement for the maintenance equirment and spare
parts to be purchased under the project that this workshop be equipped and in
operation (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1. naraaranh h(a)).
32.       The main problem facing DGM is the shortage of maintenance equip-
ment. DGM's current fleet, which was financed by limited contributions from
international lending agencies, suppliers' credits and budgetary allocations,
is aging because of intensive use and inadequate repair systems. The 690-
unit fleet has an average age of seven years: 363 units are in working con-
dition, 55 need minor repairs, 174 need major repairs and 98 should be
scrapped. These figures reflect the lack of preventive maintenance, result-
ing in an average availability of equipment between 40 and 50 percent. The
average level of annual purchases of maintenance equipment for 1977-80 was
about US$0.8 million which, considering the age of the fleet, was insufficient
to replace worn-out units. Substantial equipment purchases are now required
for both the renewal and expansion of the maintenance fleet. What is also
needed is more rational planning for the financing of iuture equipment needs.
In this latter regard, it has been agreed that the Government will submit to
the Bank for comment, no later than January 15, 1982, a proposal for syste-
matic funding of the renewal of maintenance equipment, to begin January 1,
1983 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(c)). For proper operation of the
maintenance equipment, the timely supply of spare parts is essential, and such
supply has been slow due to the fact that Government goods must be procured
through a central supply office. However, in May 1980 the Government decided
to create a branch of this office within SECOPT in order to expedite the
purchase of spare parts. It has been agreed that the Government will, no
later than January 1, 1981, define the functions of and operating procedures
for this branch, and thereafter monitor performance under the new arrangement
to assure its adequacy (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 4.03(b) and 4.07(e)).
33.       In early 1978, SECOPT contracted consultants to assist in improving
maintenance planning and management. Their main tasks were to (a) establish
a pilot district where the system would be tested; (b) establish a system of
preventive maintenance for equipment; (c) organize workshops; and (d) prepare
an inventory of existing equipment and lists of maintenance and workshop
equipment needs. Improvement of field maintenance operations in the pilot
region has been completed. However, the preventive maintenance and the work-
shop organization program have been only partially implemented because of a
shortage of funds and delays in completing the workshop facilities (see para-
graph 31 above). W-th regard to personnel, SECOPT senior level staff are
generally capable but low and middle level personnel are not always suffi-
ciently trained and often use inefficient work methods. To deal with these
problems, DGM has developed a number of training activities over the last
three years, but they need to be substantially strengthened and expanded.



- 12 -
34.       Feeder Roads - In 1976, the Bank and the Government entered into an
agreement for promoting and testing labor-based construction methods under the
"Substitution of Equipment for Labor" research project supported by nine Bank
member countries. The pilot program carried out over the 1977-78 period
showed that new construction techniques could be developed for labor-based
feeder road works, and also demonstrated the social impact caused by using
local labor for these works. About 170 km of feeder roads constructed
between 1977 and 1978 were all located in the southwest region (Choluteca)
where the population density is high and the incomes are low. A new Depart-
ment of Labor-Based Road Construction was also created under DGH for this type
of works and about 280 km of additional feeder roads were constructed during
1979-80 in the same southwest region. Maintenance of the feeder roads is
satisfactorily carried out, also using labor-intensive methods. With the
expansion of feeder road construction to other areas of the country where
unemployment is less pronounced, more use of equipment and greater reliance
on small local contractors is appropriate. However, solely labor-based
construction will continue over the next few years, financed by the Govern-
ment, IDB and USAID.
35.       Traffic Growth and the Road Transport Industry - During the decade
from 1968 to 1978, there was a steady growth in road transport, with the
vehicle fleet growing by 190 percent from 24,750 to 71,980 vehicles. This
heavy increase led the Government to enact a Land Transport Law in February
1976 permitting the regulation of freight and passenger transport in order
to promote the orderly growth of the transport industry in Honduras and im-
prove its competitiveness in the region. The regulations enacted so far cover
fares, routes, entry, capacity and vehicle types on the passenger transport
side, and registration and vehicle weight control for freight transport.
Passenger transport service by bus is excellent, with modern equipment, fre-
quent services and moderate tariffs. Freight transport service is also good,
and the competition is keen. Local freight transport is dominated by in-
dependent owner-operators, while companies and cooperatives compete for
regional and international traffic. Enforcement of regulations regarding
weights and dimensions started in 1977 following the construction of 13
weighing stations along the main routes with financial assistance from CABEI.
Overloading of trucks has since gradually lessened and DGT now estimates
overloading to be between 10 and 25 percent, as opposed to between 30 and 60
percent before 1977. It has been agreed that the Government will continue
this control of vehicle weights and dimensions (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05).
36.       The Construction Industry - While SECOPT carries out some minor
improvements and construction of feeder roads by force account, most highway
construction is carried out by unit price contracts awarded to private com-
panies through competitive bidding. The Honduras Chamber of the Construction
Industry has registered a number of local firms who can carry out minor road,
bridge, culvert and earth works. There are also foreign and joint venture
firms with permanent offices in Honduras that normally submit bids and obtain
contracts for major construction works. The construction industry is facing a
number of problems generated in part by the uneven flow of Government funds
for highway works and the long delays in payments to contractors. The Bank,



- 13 -
under Loan 1341T-HO/1342-HO, is financing a study to identify the construction
industry's problems and to recommend solutions. It has been agreed that the
Government will advise the Bank of its proposed actions resulting from these
recommendations no later than June 30, 1981 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.06).
Overall Transport Planning and Coordination
37.       Highway, airport, port and rail planning are the responsibility of
SECOPT, ENP and the National Railroad of Honduras. The national Economic
Planning Council (CONSUPLANE) prepares the overall five-year investment plan
for Honduras in close cooperation with the different ministries and agencies.
CONSUPLANE deals with intersectoral as well as intrasectoral matters, such as
those within the transport sector. However, with the dominance of highways in
the internal transport system, intermodal considerations are not a major
concern. Whatever coordination is required among roads, airports and the
semiautonomous railroads and ports is normally handled through meetings or
direct contacts among the heads of the agencies.
38.       In view of the large investments in the El Cajon hydroelectric proj-
ect in the five-year investment program for Honduras, the Government is aware
of the need for careful investment planning. It has, therefore, in consulta-
tion with IMF and the Bank, established an overall investment ceiling and,
based on a Bank review of sectoral investment plans, it appears that the
overall program provides good intersectoral balance. Highways and ports
consume most of the transport investments in Honduras and require continuous
planning. Highways accounted for 72 percent and ports for 27 percent of the
1979 budget expenditures for transport. The current highway investment
program for 1980-84 shows a considerable decline in new construction, as well
as an absolute reduction in highway investments starting-in 1982. The program
is well balanced and correctly reflects the increased emphasis on small scale
improvements, with special attention to deferred maintenance and construction
of new low standard feeder roads. It has been agreed that the Government will
exchange views annually with the Bank on the progress made in carrying out,
and the continuing appropriateness of the highway investment program (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(e)(ii)).
Bank Participation in the Highway Sector
39.       Beginning in 1955, the Bank Group has made six loans and two
credits, totalling US$96.0 million, for seven projects in the highway sector.
The first six projects 1/ have been completed. Together, they provided for
(a) early reorganization and strengthening of the highway department, and
purchase of some maintenance equipment; (b) reconstruction and improvement
of roads connecting San Pedro Sula-Puerto Cortes, Tegucigalpa-Interamerican
highway, Chamelecon-Santa Rosa on the Western highway, Tegucigalpa-Potrerillos,
1/   Loan 135 of December 22, 1955, Loan 195 of May 9, 1958, Credit 1 of
May 12, 1961, Credit 71/Loan 400 of February 2, 1965, Loan 495 of
May 26, 1967, and Loan 896 of May 30, 1973.



- 14 -
Tegucigalpa-Talanga and a number of secondary roads; (c) construction of:
bridges and feeder road connections on the Western highway, an extension of
the highway to the El Salvador border, and a number of other feeder roads;
(d) a highway transportation survey, technical assistance for transport
planning, and training of SECOPT staff; (e) feasibility studies for future
highway works; and (f) urgent rehabilitation of some 250 km of roads in the
Atlantic coastal region to repair damages caused by Hurricane Fifi. The OED
Report (No. 641 of February 20, 1975) for the Fourth Project concluded that
it was successful and broadly met its objectives, but recommended more fre-
quent supervision, mainly in the early implementation stages. The OED Report
(No. 672 of March 27, 1975) for the Fifth Project concluded that, although
the reconstruction of the Western highway proceeded well and the quality of
the works was good, the closing of the border with El Salvador following the
1969 armed conflict between the two countries resulted in a decline in traffic.
This development, together with cost overruns, reduced the rate of return of
the project to a level which, in retrospect, made the investment questionable;
however, the project road did help to connect the region with the rest of the
country. The Completion Report on the Sixth Project, dated January 23, 1980,
concluded that the project was successful and met its main objectives. The
OED Report is being prepared.
40.       Loan 1341T-HO/1342-HO, amounting to US$35.0 million for the Seventh
Highway Project, was signed on December 16, 1976 and comprises (a) reconstruc-
tion, including paving, of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road (about 155 km);
(b) purchase of maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment; (c) consult-
ing services for (i) preparation of a Highway Master Plan, (ii) technical
assistance to DGH and DGM, including training for engineers and technicians
and fellowships abroad, (iii) technical assistance to DGH for the local
construction industry, and (iv) studies in the area of influence of the
Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road in the Guayape valley, with a view to the
integrated rural development of the area.
41.       The project is proceeding well and is 80 percent completed.  Current
estimates of completion costs are quite close to appraisal estimates. Not yet
started are (a) the purchase of laboratory equipment, which will be carried
out once appropriate facilities for its installation are completed and (b) the
Guayape valley study. The study originally contemplated under this project,
for a Master Plan of the Guayape valley, is now being carried out with financ-
ing from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and therefore
the available allocation of US$500,000 will be utilized for a feasibility
study of an irrigation project in the Rio Telica area of the valley, which
would be complementary to the Master Plan study. The study is now being
contracted and should be completed by mid-81. The project was revised also to
include the 1979-80 tranche of SECOPT's program for the improvement of rural
roads through labor-intensive methods (see paragraph 34 above). The project
initiated considerable advances in maintenance practices which will be pursued
and consolidated under the proposed Eighth Project.
42.       Although not part of the highway series, Loan 1576-HO for the
Guayape Regional Development Project, US$10.5 million of June 16, 1978,



- 15 -
included about US$0.9 million for the construction of some 35 km of feeder
roads to ensure all-weather connection between farms and the existing
secondary road network. Road construction has begun. This project component,
as well as the Guayape valley study under the Seventh Project, show the Gov-
ernment's interest in tying its road construction to the overall development
activity of this valley. This focus on integration is carried into other
valleys under the proposed Eighth Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The Eighth Highway Project was identified and prepared during
1978-79 and was appraised in December 1979 and March 1980. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - Eighth Highway Project, Honduras" (Report No.
2971b-HO of July 18, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary data
are contained in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on June 24-25,
1980. The Government delegation was headed by the Director General for
Highways and the Director General for Maintenance of Highways and Airports.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to:
(a) facilitate access to and from rural areas through better secondary and
feeder roads; (b) protect past investments in the highway network through
improvement of maintenance operations; and (c) continue the institutional
improvements undertaken under previous projects to strengthen highway admin-
istration and maintenance to meet the requirements of expanding road transport.
The project would comprise the following components:
(a) construction of about 350 km of feeder roads in
selected agricultural valleys, including purchase of
vehicles for supervision;
(b) improvement of about 115 km of secondary roads;
(c) purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment, including
spare parts;
(d) technical assistance for implementing a maintenance
management system for scheduling and controlling
maintenance activities; and
(e) technical assistance for training DGM staff.
45.       Feeder Roads - The Government is embarking on a large feeder roads
program (about 500 km per year) to improve rural access. This program is well
coordinated with ongoing efforts in the agricultural sector to increase agri-
cultural production. The program will be assisted by USAID, IDB and the Bank.
In order to minimize the risk of overlapping, close cooperation has been
established between the Government and these institutions to define the areas
and timing of each agency's operations. The Bank will finance some 350 km of
feeder roads under the project, half of which (in the Guayape, Yoro and La



- 16 -
Masica valleys) have already been selected and evaluated. IDB will finance
work in the Comayagua, Yoro and La Masica valleys, and in the latter two, an
understanding has been reached that IDB would handle the early part of the
program and the Bank the later. USAID will finance roads in other valleys in
the western part of the country. Since the roads would be constructed to low
standards, relatively simple engineering has been prepared and provides an
adequate basis for cost estimates and contract documents. The economic
evaluation was prepared by DGH and consultants in cooperation with the Mini-
stry of Natural Resources and CONSUPLANE. The remainder of the roads will be
selected and evaluated using the same methodology. It has been agreed that
the Government will submit to the Bank for comment, no later than December 15,
1980 and each June 30 thereafter, the list of feeder roads, including their
final engineering and economic justification, to be constructed under the
project in the following calendar year (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Because of the importance of the feeder roads program and the Bank's interest
in maintaining a dialogue on labor-based techniques, it has also been agreed
that the Government will exchange views with the Bank annually on the status
of its entire feeder roads program and on the operations of its Depart-
ment of Labor-Based Construction (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(e)(iii)).
46.       Secondary Roads - The improvement of three existing secondary roads,
Rio Dulce - El Porvenir (48 km), Danli - Santa Maria (47 km), and Telica - San
Francisco de la Paz (20 km), each of which serves agriculturally productive
valleys, is included in the Government's 1980-84 program as a high priority
investment. In order to reduce construction costs, the alignment for these
improvements generally follows the existing roads except for some realignments
required to improve winding or dangerous sections. The engineering for these
roads has been completed and their economic evaluation shows satisfactory
returns (see paragraph 58 below).
47.       Maintenance - The development of highway maintenance capacity is
a long-standing objective of Bank lending to Honduras. The maintenance com-
ponents of previous projects have helped build up DGM's organization and
establish its logistic support system. Maintenance requirements are expanding
due to the growth in the length of the network and in the volume of the traffic,
and are also changing in scope; the network is aging and more attention has
to be given to pavement resealing and rehabilitation. The proposed project
would expand the capacity of DGM and give particular emphasis to increasing
its efficiency through better management, better use and upkeep of equipment,
and training of personnel. The road inventory prepared in 1979 indicates that
the maintenance network for which DGM is responsible comprises 6,460 km and
would grow by almost 40 percent to 8,960 km by 1984. As described in paragraph
33 above, over the last two years SECOPT has, with the assistance of consultants,
developed a maintenance management system for scheduling and controlling its
annual program of maintenance activities. The improved procedures, which were
tested in a pilot district, are now being introduced countrywide. In order to
support this effort, it is estimated that annual recurrent budget requirements
for maintenance would grow, in real terms, from US$10.4 million in 1980 to
US$13.5 million in 1981 and 1982, and US$13.8 million in 1983 and 1984.
It has been agreed that the Government will provide all the funds necessary to
carry out this program (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The project
would help support the Government's effort to introduce and consolidate
SECOPT's new maintenance management system throughout DGM's organization by



- 17 -
continuing the technical assistance program initiated under the previous
project and by helping expand and renew the equipment fleet. Net additional
requirements were obtained from an analysis of the condition of the existing
fleet and the capacity required annually to carry out the programmed level of
maintenance activities. The project would provide for purchase of about 300
pieces of maiatenance equipment, spare parts for preventive maintenance and
equipment rehabilitation, and some workshop equipment.
48.       Training - To assist SECOPT in carrying out its maintenance training
programs, the project would continue and expand the technical assistance
initiated under the previous project with special attention to addressing
the needs of road foremen, equipment operators, drivers and mechanical staff.
The program aims at improving the productivity of some 700 staff and includes
the strengthening of SECOPT's Training Department, the establishment of a Road
Training Production Unit (RTPU) for road foremen and equipment operators/
drivers and a Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU) for mechanical
personnel, the purchase of training equipment and materials, the recruitment
of training specialists and instructors, the organization of seminars for
middle and high level maintenance staff, and short courses abroad for three
staff members of the Training Department. All the training activities would
be coordinated by DGM's Training Department, which would initially be assisted
by seven expatriate specialists. SECOPT would assign counterparts to work
closely with the training specialists and take over after their assignment is
completed.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The estimated total cost of the project, which is exempt from taxes,
is US$40.8 million equivalent (at January 1980 prices), including US$1.8 mil-
lion for physical and US$8.2 million for price contingencies. Physical con-
tingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the construction costs and
price contingencies have been estimated at 10.5 percent for 1980, 9 percent
for 1981, 8 percent for 1982 and 7 percent for 1983-84. The cost estimate is
based on completed engineering for about half of the feeder roads and all of
the secondary roads. The average unit cost per km for construction of feeder
roads has been estimated at US$20,000, and for the improvement of secondary
roads the average cost per km is US$80,000. These average costs per km are
considered reasonable. It is assumed that contracts for the construction of
feeder roads would be awarded to local contractors, and that for the secondary
roads, there would be some foreign participation; supervision of construction
would be carried out by local consultants with some foreign participation.
The technical assistance would be carried out by foreign consultants with some
local participation. The average gross cost of the 350 man-months of foreign
consultant services and technical assistance is estimated at US$8,900 per
man-month, while the average cost for 220 man-months of Honduran technicians
of different grades is estimated at US$ 3,000 per man-month.
50.       The project is scheduled to be completed in four years (1981-84).
The foreign exchange component of the project, estimated at US$28.0 million
(about 69 percent of project cost), will be financed by the proposed loan.
All local costs, estimated at US$12.8 million, would be met from Government
budgetary allocations. A breakdown of project costs and the financing plan
are contained in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report.



- 18 -
Project Implementation
51.       SECOPT would be responsible for project implementation through DGH
and DGM. DGH would manage the construction of feeder roads and improvement
of secondary roads. For the feeder roads component, it would carry out super-
vision directly, while consultants would be engaged for supervising the im-
provement of secondary roads. The feeder roads component would be handled
by a special Feeder Roads Section to be created within the DGH unit which has
been administering Bank-financed projects. Field operations would be super-
vised by offices to be created within the Section, one for each valley. It
would be a condition of disbursement for the feeder roads component that the
Feeder Roads Section be established and that a civil engineer, with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Bank, be appointed as its head (draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)). DGM would carry out the mainte-
nance program and the technical assistance component,including the training
program. It has been agreed that the Government will establish and equip RTPU
and MTPU no later than June 30, 1981 and provide adequate funds for their
operation (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
Procurement
52.       Maintenance and training equipment, totalling about US$11.0 million,
would be procured through international competitive bidding. However, con-
tracts with an estimated cost below US$50,000, within an overall ceiling of
US$500,000, would be advertised locally in accordance with SECOPT regulations
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Spare parts for specific makes of equip-
ment would be procured directly from established dealers under the same
regulations for individual orders of less than US$50,000.
53.       Construction of feeder roads, totalling about US$7.0 million, would
be carried out by local contractors selected in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank, or by DGH's field offices, using equipment rented from
local equipment owners. This latter method has been successfully implemented
in a USAID-financed feeder roads program and in the Bank-financed regional
development project (Loan 1576-HO of June 16, 1978), both in the Guayape
valley. Contracts for the improvement of secondary roads would be awarded
through international competitive bidding among prequalified contractors.
Because the roads to be improved are located far apart and will be executed
concurrently, separate bids would be invited for Rio Dulce-El Porvenir (US$1.7
million), Telica-San Francisco de La Paz (US$1.7 million), and Danli-Santa
Maria (US$5.8 million). The Bank's prior review and approval would be required
for all civil works contracts of more than US$200,000 equivalent, and for all
goods contracts of more than US$50,000 equivalent. About 30 percent of the
number and 15 percent of the amount of all civil works contracts, and over 30
percent of the number and 15 percent of the amount of all goods contracts are
expected to fall under this limit and only require ex-post Bank approval.
Disbursements
54.       Project expenditures eligible for disbursement under the Bank loan
would be as follows: (a) 55 percent of total expenditures for civil works
for construction of feeder roads and improvement of secondary roads, and for
consultants' services for construction supervision; (b) 80 percent of total



- 19 -
expenditures for technical assistance for the maintenance and training pro-
grams; and (c) 100 percont of foreign expenditures for the purchase of
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and workshop tools, and seminars and training
abroad.
Project Risks
55.       The improvement of secondary roads and the maintenance component
do not involve any special risks. The feeder roads component entails a
certain amount of risk because SECOPT is embarking on a large feeder roads
construction program (1981-84) which could exceed DGH's physical capacity for
carrying out this type of work; this risk has been dealt with by carefully
coordinating the feeder roads efforts being undertaken by USAID, IDB and the
Bank, by assuring additional staffing for DGH, and by providing for annual
reviews of SECOPT's entire feeder roads program. In view of current fiscal
constraints in Honduras, there is some risk that counterpart funds for the
project, as well as funds for recurrent maintenance expenditures, may not be
provided in a timely manner. The requirements for funds have been carefully
analyzed with planning and financial authorities to comply with the overall
fiscal program, and a detailed understanding has been reached on annual
budgetary requirements. The funding risk would also be lessened by close
monitoring and by the agreed annual review between the Bank and the Government
of the overall investment program and its financing prospects (see paragraph
15 above).
Environmental Impact
56.       The road maintenance and improvement components of the project are
expected to have a beneficial environmental impact since they will control
soil erosion through proper drainage on already existing roads. The feeder
roads component would open new roads, often along existing tracks. A negative
environmental impact might be expected in sections passing through mountainous
terrain, and SECOPT would ensure that special attention is paid to drainage
works in order to minimize soil erosion.
Economic Analysis
57.       The feeder roads component, which represents about 23 percent of the
project, consists of some 350 km to improve access to rural areas with pre-
dominantly small farms and to facilitate the transportation of mainly agricul-
tural produce to the market. Because of the keen competition in the transport
industry, the resulting benefits from reduced transportation costs are expected
to be passed on over time to the rural population. The population would also
benefit from improved access to schools, health and other public facilities.
The main criterion for final project selection is that the economic rate of
return should at least equal the opportunity cost of capital in Honduras,
estimated at some 11 percent. The benefits included in the evaluation are (i)
producer surplus from increased agricultural production; (ii) cost savings to
non-agricultural goods traffic; and (iii) time savings for passenger traffic.
Of those roads already selected, with the exception of two or three cases just
meeting the minimum criterion, economic rates of return typically exceed 20
percent. For the economic rate of return for these roads as a group to be
less than 11 percent would require either a cost increase of 135 percent or a
decrease in benefits of 60 percent; both changes are far above any reasonably
expected variation in the key parameters used.



- 20 -
58.       The secondary roads to be improved which represent  about 35 percent
of the project, have been subjected to an economic analysis based on costs
obtained from detailed engineering and benefits estimated from actual traffic
counts. The project benefits considered consist of vehicle operating cost
savings as a result of improved road standards. Although not quantified by
the consultant who did the analysis, the time cost savings for commercial
vehicle operators as a result of increased average speed over the roads would
be an additional benefit. The benefits from cost savings would initially go
directly to the transporters, but, as discussed in paragraph 57 above, it is
expected that over time most of the benefits will be passed on to the rural
population. Benefits from improved level of transport service would go
immediately to the users. The economic returns for the three roads are as
follows: Rio Dulce-El Porvenir, 18 percent; Danli-Santa Maria, 16 percent;
and Telica-San Francisco de la Paz, 18 percent. A standard sensitivity
analysis indicates that, under the worst circumstances considered, i.e., a
simultaneous increase in costs by 10 percent and decrease in benefits by 20
percent, the lowest economic return drops to 13 percent for the Danli-Santa
Maria road, which is still above the estimated opportunity cost of capital.
59.       The economic evaluation of the maintenance and training program,
which represents about 42 percent of the project, compares total maintenance
costs and road user costs with and without the project. About 55 different
maintenance activities were analyzed by frequency and cost for different road
types to establish the maintenance costs with and without the project. The
economic benefits from the maintenance program are the savings in vehicle
operating costs due to the gradually improved road standards and the time cost
savings for commercial vehicle operators. Matched with the economic costs of
the program, the above benefits produce a 70 percent economic return. This
high rate of return reflects the relatively small investment required to
preserve the productive capacity of large construction investments. The
sensitivity of the economic return to a number of variations in the benefits
and costs indicates that the economic return would drop to 19 percent under
the worst circumstances considered, i.e., an increase in cost by 25 percent,
a decrease in benefits by 25 percent and the exclusion of time cost savings.
60.       Because of about one-half of the feeder roads to be included in the
project will only be selected during the implementation period, the calcula-
tion of an overall economic return for the whole project is not meaningful.
However, for the secondary roads and the maintenance and training program,
which are fully defined, the overall rate of return is about 47 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms to the normal
pattern of loans for highway projects and its more important features have
been included in Part IV and summarized in Section III of Annex III of this
report. It would be a condition of disbursement for maintenance equipment and
spare parts purchased under the project that the San Pedro Sula workshop be



- 21 -
equipped and in operation, and for the feeder roads component that the Feeder
Roads Section be established and a civil engineer, satisfactory to the Bank,
be appointed as its head.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement or the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 7, 1980



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page 1
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IHONDURAS                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL             112.1
AGRICULTURAL       29.0                                   MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    180.0        260.0     480.0                    1384.1                     2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       155.0        247.0      284.0                    1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        1.9          2.6        3.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.8           28.7       34.1                      63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           7.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         17.0         23.0       30.0                     28.1                        77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       67.0         91.0      116.0                     81.7                      129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.5         46.1       47.9                     41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         51.2      49.4                      54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.5          2.7        2.7                       3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.3          3.1        3.3                       2.7                        1.6
URBAN                                6.0          5.5        5.6                       4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.0         49.0       47.0                      34.8                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0         15.0       12.0                       8.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..         3.4        3.4                       2.5                        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         12.7       23.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              .        9.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            83.0         97.0       87.0                     106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     92.0        101.0       89.0                    107.4                      125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            56.0         61.0       53.0                      65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         22.0         25.0       23.0                     33.7                       39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       30.0         20.0       14.0                       8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0           53.0       57.0                      63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            130.0        117.0      118.0                      66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         34.0       46.0                     65.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..       82.0                     80.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       27.0                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         24.0         ..                     62.3
URBAN                                 ..         64.0         ..                      79.4
RELRAL                                ..          9.0         ..                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           12610.0      3793.00/c  3416.0                    1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       1848.0    1243.0                   1227.5                       929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              623.0        581.0      713.0                    480.3                      289.7
URBAN
RURAL
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..       24.0                        ..                       17.0
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.7
URBAN                                5. 5
RURAL                                5.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4
URBAN                                1. 8
EURBA                                2.7           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               15.0           ..       25.0
URBAN                               56.7           ..       67.1
RURAL                                2.0           ..        5.5



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page 2
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAfS
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0         93.0      89.0                     99.7                     105.9
MALE                  68.0        94.0       90.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE               67.0         93.0      88.0                      99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0         12.0      13.0                     34.4                      64.0
MALE                   8.0        13.0       13.0                     33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                 7.0        11.0       13.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY) 24.0           18.0      25.0                     38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            32.0         35.0      35.0                     30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          10.0           ..      17.0                     14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        45.0           ..      57.0                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          5.0       6.4                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         67.0         58.0      51.0                    245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          9.0      15.0                     84.2                     118.5
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  21.0           ..      35.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                      ..                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       616.9        831.3    1007.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   12.5         12.8      14.0                     22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.2         66.0      64.0                     37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.6         13.0      14.0                     23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5         30.6      29.8                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 55.3         53.5      51.8                     48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                7.8          7.8       7.9                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.6        1.7                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          67.8/td
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          2.3d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          7.3d
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     255.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     180.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     251.0                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0                    332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      14.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      54.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estirate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d 1967.
April, 1980



- 2 4 -                                                                        ANTNEX I
Page 3
DEFINIT19NS OF SOCIAL INDlrATOSI
Noten   Although the data are drawn tram sources gear-ally judged the most astheritatlve and reliable, it should also be noted that they   y aw  be later-
natlocslly capeable betasse of the leak at standardi.ed defiaition= and A-onepts used by differens cuntrie  in cotlecting the data.  The d                 r   noe-
h.eleun, useful to descrlbe oader oaf segnitude, indilate trends, and  -baranterlee certein ma:r differ-nces between cpurr nts.
The reference grasps are (1t the sate cosetry group af the su-jbet rpuntry and (2l  a country group with naoethat high-er avrage inco=e Ithn the country group
at she subject cannery (eacept tar ''Caplnel Surplus Oli Etpartetrn' E tt grasp  h ner  `d dle Scaer noth=tr   A meir   and Middllse  coe h rtausr of
least half of the  ouwatrahs in a group baa data tar that indirator.  Sinew the  noverage at caunnries aoneg the fst arons defends am the availability et
dare and isn wnoatunforg, caution east brewetetnied to relating aretagen at wee indiwatar no snother. These arergete are only asefuS Sn conpartng the raise
nf one indicator at a ales (amng ath couetry and referents groups
LAbD_                                                                  _ AREA (thousand nq.kf  rtpulaticn tar Fhynsnua  -capuuatuae turcoec ay  nuer at practtcang pty-
Total - Tonal surface area cahncrisieg land area and inland eaters.                       sicua   chii. cd   cr a nadicu  stood  at.'nicersic  leae.
dAricaltsral - Isiseata of agricultural arreassed teepararily or permaneanipy           Populataon per Nursing Persone- Population divubed by  untmer at prattirtng
tar craps, pamlures, merher and kitchen gardens or to lie tufallo; 1977 data.           nale and fealae graduateenureas  practical nurses, and aesistant curses.
hiP  PER CAP... tcUSa - GNP per capita asteaRdts at current marker paicea, cal-           Ppulation  retaia d       ed b total uataa, a       ural  o Pnpiae (nat
dal.  ad la  -   -he  .li,.d 1~ lala~i.g  Va-ge.  f  -i       sdi-t       , ant  r   l T iciad..by it. ala 1 r  -serla  is-ea iat  thapia  teds
Rulted hy none conversion nethod as Woarld Bank Atlen (1916-li hbasis)  19th,           enailatle un public and privane grner-l and specialired hoapital aed ar-
a95 cd11  dana.                                                                        hahilinatien centers.  tastyiain are esteblishments permanently slttfed
d t a  j..   ',h    -tl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~byatlestat  pyscin.tsehifesst  pandig  riaia-y   asede
tNERG  COiiNStLMPIN YRc  CuPITA - Aencetl conen=ption of co=nercial snaerS  (coal           cae are ewe incuided.  nura7 hospitals,  lewener,ii tarlade halth sedmedIcal
and lignite, pecrroleu, enspal gas esd hydra-, nuclear and geothermal nlec-               renters nen perkmarenip staffed hy a phystaten  (tnt by a medical aspiet- et,
cricit .li 1 t ilgrare at coal equivalent prr capit; 1960  19Sf, and 1979                 curse, sideife, etc   w vhirh otter it-patient accoesadaliws and provide a
data,                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range at medical tacilitirs.  awe stetistical purpanet nrsbn hOspi-
PIPtLATI-tI AND. AllaL STATLSTICS                                                           rain include SHIn printcipal general and specialieed baspt-ale, aed rural
Total Ppulution, Slid-Pear (mllions) - As at July 1; 1960  1970, and 1978               Adh ssians er nPild ale -... 1n punber of admissio    to  r discharges
fran hoapnal   diaided by theinube  at beds.            dfh-it1  e
irbta  Poaulaltio  (perienn of thtal( - Rarti  at urhar to total population;              rbl d                  d pyi-he  g ... of bd           ns
different deyish-lais at urban areas may affect caspira.ility at data               H rS NG
among  countries;19f  1   aida9t data.h                                                     e 1960, 1970r nd 1g  f - di usehald (hershnf rer hnusetold) -  totl, urban. end rprdl-
Pacuiurari Pruiectians                                                                    Abueedcnit   tagopo  ntiai   b   hr   iigqatr
Porpi Ion inter 00 - Current population prajectiuns ure based on l9S0                   An thoehir maint meals,  a horoder ne lodger mep or ma Y net he incLuded in
total populaniwn by age and see and their mortalip and fectility rates.              the hnusehold far seatsticil purposes.
Paajactlnn parametern tar mortality rates comprise of three lereis assay               re utiher of    lipe      r   _- al.d   r         ad ru.    - t   eage sus
nmg lite sepettesty at birth increasing with eountry's per nayina incowe           hverate pterenof persroot. ier all      otl urban, and r ural -tspe  cAnveraien r
P evei, and femaeL LiTTeItpeCtS  y s tat ilieeg as  7- pe-re   The para-              dwellings,espentinely   Iwelllgs eta ldirI a-Ped n n- nrintareslaa
fertility according to inoeca level and past tartly planfieg pertormance           nAncups t9ledcparicits  (Prcn    o      f         d   - t       - adruralg-
Each counetry us thee asnigned one at thene nine cnshlaetions of cnrtality            Conaentional dwellings with electricity ie ltving quarters as pretg
and  eciity trends for pcaecti_ purposes.aaairbnydrusdateg na
Ststiacarv populatione- In astationary pnpulation  ihere is eno growth niate            oftalvrn,ndualvligsrpciYY
the hirtn rare is wqsal to att deanh rate, and also the age strsteure ar-    IniCayTOs
meian  constant.  Thus is achiered only after fernility rares decline 50            Adissead Enrollee=t Ratins
the replacement level of unit net revanductiac rate, aheentach generan tari           Primaronsitawi  twtAf                     -  Gen h  e IId tea
of to=sea replaces Itself escaly.  The srationarpyappuiation siee tse                  wernllvschon at  toall egen   andth  pr.arpleve aros ptotan,egee atd esekn tie
stiated an the basis of the projected characteristics at the popelation                 priarptheofal-ages npu-ati te p.rimary lely ia8s pcentareAage  h- r     cil
in ate year 0l0iy and thge   ate of d tline atflertility race  to replece-              ye..ars hu 7djndt  different lengeit       at primarY edca  ins; for
nine larif.-.".    tbrhi_a                   ih-tyap              pt.Iwuenf pries.with neivrsa  ednaiorcd Ien  m pesed  lIt.prcee
mear staticonry Pepulatitn is reacted - The pear when stationary  population              since se pupil  are below     abene the  tfittmay schoo  iger
siZe  bus trot reached.n so
te   Id    "I  a .1.                                                      Tp:,~~~~ieodrrcea     etl ml  ndfmae-  opte   asoe;scodr
Papuietien leenity                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~educatian requirse  at least focr pear e at appraned piar bye t;esrctine;r
retsn.is   - Mid-year population per square kilameter (100 hncnares ( a                 provides geareda,vocetianal, or teanher iratning tnstruneions fat pupils
ser sqakm  agriculturaltland - Co "put d as above for agricultural.land                 usualLyss fl1yof o1 17ny1 aryers at  ;gc;rrereonpodcesCe ueseseaareggeeralli
Papu7 -tioo hAs S tructsre (I  eacrcnt - Thildren 10-lu years, . enri _Ag-age (15-n                   lenhsi.it (2el lidatrisif, atether prngrast shiah b peracn ledeps--
4 pears  a. end retired  (05 paear and aver) at perceneagrs of mid-year papa-             de tly o- as depertrents fa secondary  nlstituticns.
l dfion; 1960, 1970, and 1919 data.                                                                -batIon- prI         aedlsing ed-r-  -  tl   s          n
PJocuietion Growth Rann (percent) - toenl - unnual growth rates of total mid-             Pprimtaryhend seriPedaryiceis dnivideed°hy rYmbers of teach hera in the
year populetioss tar 1950-60, i960-70, and 1970-78                                        narrespoedieg lenels.
Population irovth Sate (perctent) - urhan-htnnual grovnth rates At urban popu-            Aduit lineranS rate (poacerel - Literate  dalts (ablt to rrad and ertte)
athon t far 190-hO.  1960-70.   and 197h-7                                                metepacedgatt't               l .u ad i                t   es
Crude Eirth Rtoe (Per thoussand) - Apqual lice births perr thousand of sid-rear             a      ecnaeo   oa   dl  ouainae   5yasadoe
ptpulatln; 1960, 1970, and 1970 doate.                                              _nfNs1pTSl         
Taste leantlRate (pea theanasd) - Annual deaths Per thousand ft mid-pear aeaseager Cars (per nhou=tnd pdpatt lhali     - Pe-ssager aers toaprise motor
poyulation; 196f. l970, and 197E dgta.cr  saing less than eight persons; coniuden ambulenes, hearse- and
Crass Reproductione Rate-uAverage nusber af daunhtetrs a wamar will hear to               ciitrty*eRtin,lvrs.
her cIrmal reprtducriaf period it abe experlenten preseet age-sycific fr-                   e e 
tilicy rates  usually fire-peAr averages ending  in 1960  1910, end 1977.             bRoadi Rc s cc(general paou      pers  euand   t - pe oapa     recledes unit
atm  Pipeb-cnring     dealtee ander ausyties tt tetitnaL familY planni g pepsrast        amne                                  ma......te....y ne  be c ara tic  m
fatil Planningo-Users leernene of rarrind anmeel - Perceetage at rarried                  countrier sbinished licenting.         qSntec    r   
wp=en at child-bhearing age (ll-44 peers) etc use hirth-control devices to            Tb Rceivers free thousnend  opauietiwe) - PSY receivers for broadcast to
all maririd socen in sass age gcoup.                                                    general public per thossand population; exclude-sunlicensed TV receinere
FOOD ANl bUiTRlTlON                                                                         in anuetrirs and in years ehen regieteselse at TV sets vse  it eftect.
heewre Cirul Ila (per bebasa          - piatth.     Shows. the  reaedeal
Indra of food Prodaction per Capita p1969-yC-1lli   - inden af pearcapint   unnual        nin        aily-general interestnv epipsr ', diefied teepeetoditai puh-
produnctioe of all food commodities.  Prodauction includes seed and feed and            licanian deaoted primerllp to reoreding general sees.  Ce is conesidered
in at calendar yeir tunis.  Caeseaditien corer priwery goads (emg  sagarnane            to be  aI      i t    at      least  fou  tda
enstead at sngar) which are edible and contain eutraries (r.g. coffee and              to ha 'Idi   If t 1per a               toar times-a w.
ten are earcluded)   Aggregare productione at tact country is heard onCinemt Asnual denendaece per Cepints  et Pee-lme ains torie inumber4 o
natlomal acrerage praduarc price weights; 196l-t5. 1970, and i97B data,                 lihn  sobld dunitg et   ern dng  fdisase   riei  iea
Per ceaptasarnPic of caelories (Percent at requiremeetz) - Cnspsted tens                and c= l  unts
energy  Vquitle_ut of net tod supplies anailade -n country pee tapita             LABR FC
yer day>  Availahle supplies comprtso donestic prodacetion  imports lens            Ptanl Labor Porce (ebousaeds) - t0 ymir-lly active Persons, including
neprns, and chaes in stack.  Set seppies ratclade animal feed, seeds,                 armed farcet end Anemployed bst  nn luding tusewihes, stmdents.  eta.
queentiiem ased ia food processiag, and losses is distribution   Resqaire-            Itfinitions in rarious countries err sot oinpershe; 1961. 1970 end
meets were estimated ha Phi bated an phystological seeds far normal antI-             1910 data
viny and health considerring enateanmestal temperotara, body weights, age           female (percent) - female labor force as percentege of total later farce.
sad stx distribution of racalation, and allonung 10 percent for waste ar            Agriculture (perneenl) - Labor force in terming, forestry, iunting sad
hossehold level; 1961-t, 1970, end 1977 dat,                                          fIshing e  percdenage ft total lhabr force; 1960, 1971 end i97B dts.
ret centsa surely at proteei (sasm per dav) - Pro taei  content at per cupit a        ledustra feertent-  - Later force to a=inen, ewnstruitian, -d-afatueldg
net suppip at food per day.  let ssrpply of food in defined no steve.  Be-            and elettrgiep.y eater and gas as percentage at toe1 1ebr torte  1960,
quPeeoents  far all c1u5cr6es 196e0ltsied by USDA provite far smie-lue                                                 diie by .-b d         f   a         ir   the
llsonce at h0 grass of total protein per dap and 20 grams at animal and               1919   d 1979A  d ata. -b-                   and pdi    -Ptcai
PAduln  liatiosac latecne-  -nel male.t ad,femable t- lsetiiad d it.)
pulse paroein, of vhich 10 gremt should be animal proteAn.  These sland-              acttvity races are computed es total, eels, and female labor farce as
ards are lower than chase of 71 grams at total protein and 23 frame of                yercestageP  of  nteal, f ail and female popalstion  of all ages respectively;
Acrid Food Survey; 1961-al, 1970 and 1977 da 1  
Per awaIts protein sutaly froe naisol and pulse - Protrinsupl  of toad de-              matge-se ateucuee iofth  popuranes,e  lng tietend.afeteI
C_de Dea ~ ~    ) - A--  death.P- th ...appl idy.-                        ea-UMteeoe  rm   aina   oacn
tived flan  a190 9a and pal sw  in gatmt per dsp; 1961-Al, 1970 and 1977 dat.    Rcco mic leneadreer Ratin  - teem  at population  undet 15 and 65 and caed
Child (ages 1-4) itcrnalley wale (Per thousand) - Aneual deaths tee thousand in           to the  totall       f
age grasp i-A years, ta children in this age grasp; tar mast developing.con-
tries data derained from  life nobles; 1960, 1970 sand 1977 date.                   lNCOMt DISTBIBT0ION
Life Expectancyat Blth (oeans) - Average na=ber of years af life re=sinisg              P perent,e orivatesn 2  pncme, peerestR 20 percest, and poareFt 40 percent
at birthi 1960, 1970 and 1970 data.
Intone nortaliny Oats leer thounand) - Anecual deaths of infantn under ona year   PVRcnntTYAtIfT GROUPS
of age per thoceand lire births.                                                      feticattd ubsalste roe--trIce  Lee (f-s    ha              - u          andirual
Acreos   aecaersrasro topain)-Itlurn, ar ruaE                                              Absolute povertp income lecel in that incomer level hbLov shitca rinimuL
laster of people (canal, arbor, end rural) nibh reasoanable accent no sate               nucrinianally adequate diet plus essential ewe-food requirements is not
easer sapplY  (includes created aurface noters or untreated bun uncontaninated           affordable
waner such as that fram pacnecccd boreholes. springs, and nsantary welinI an          Estiputed nelative PovevaI  ll cemr Leae (USS per cya-ta-   -  ureba and rural -
percentages of their respectice populations,  It at urban areasa public                  tural rslanive porerty inaomr leastiIS one-third of average per teplee
tn anorcstandpost located ear sore th,at 200 meters from a house may he             1csnai      favetheroautryv   catrban1eve  1is derived fromths  acral
considereduashbengsicarcnreasonableuacce.sof thacthosne    In rural areac               peersnaincejaeme e  far higbnr -qst af living in urban areos
reneceatla access would inply than rhn haussalf tora  metbern at the household        szti=atad rpaoeuLern talon Absolute Povertv Ineome Level (fpernent) - stban
da codt hare en speed  a dinprapirtihnate porn of the day in  etthing eta                ad    1l - Percent  t          population  (urban end rural) eta ace 'bad luit poor'
family's vatrer nredsun.ur
i4 orta linncsaiAf.etcct of caculuron - tcal  rbianant
treri -nstmercofrpeople1crorl,,taurbn,adc rural)nserved.ca..a.res
inyeulsa  un prerctages ci cbnirtrufoecticr Ppaul atiocns   itorcta din-                                             Ecacacla and Social iota Divinion
ecual nay include a tjt collection ac- dinycual .u cbt cc cicicouc acear=eri                                     Eoanomic unalysis and fraolrotiacs lepeat=eet
O h _unanarRcITa and aantr-carrb taci- codiru  yerrahorhtIuse o                                                                      April 1980
pii  ant similar iarruliachrns



2-13-80                     Pae 4
lTgSIOtt(-     A07'61A585171                 557s"  R0    01EI 6(I 70
GROS. G-11. V   11                       1~~~~~~'175     lol0A         69031        Ave~        ,A7A1      147g7,          ,  I0     264940         7" -          gi           513          730"        20
TO  I ' TAN.1'  T-55 7.70  52,7a
060627.10767  I5AIIN'77757*5   07.5         ¶93~~~~~~~~-.  300        66.1          36          '¶93         00 679       ',94         -624S)        I21
6450617                               1123~~~~~~I  U    5902    4F70         5471          1607        9432          6934I        A'lt          1 I73        4Ie.                        A            2
TEA          ...S '/ .g IA                              *6  3          72....5                   488         -57I           24I                       -150.7         1          71.2          75A6                     77 
g5IO10N'         T   A'"1                    5           05            37          ag            2           455          93            I3A          893                                                              56 51
NA5T67    -                                                                                                          I~N'05  20 770  77 45.  6 A  8     392  94.              1         A 5           IA  8                       I   ' 
17'7'7  4        N.7'1        364 0        Tn  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   154450  1919.5   296448       2631.1       949.5-        7191.3         9.?        19.6         I,
SENIOR 7IT'I 11
-      AGRTTI7,77 t''7                                             II75       2770         "1217' 36                 040          9041           "257       5395
6957fl167                   >77          07371        0267          0237         01290        5.24          O299        0270          0'
075, SS 3177 II~o                           I0            I      I',A  7                          9' 9  416.3   156.35       10.        515.7        28.95          53          1.              1 
Go1715 0771 .T27" ITAAI  9415                   1-.        7 70         7 70         7,36.39                    2.I
7 9 A 7 0 7    N 7 T 4 I 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~el               no         7  0                      20
CRI I'    0 T r.   I       iI
76740/1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                    31I          353          333          46 5         03.5         56. 9         I4          7
7 2T0700 03'T72'AAN4                                       4057         3  69         893 4         7 7        647.5        141.7                     I 757  341.20
2.  516<78OT.031T7A5                           256          63           66 51        539          657          79.3        112.6        I., A         42   1
3   0TK(   I             TE4A6177AA            T  1.o  o   1770 7       "I7  9        59 6        687 5        23050         11 24.      2932 4        52.A
4    AT! 6  737S                          I7 04I70                               6  5          A680       271 8         255.5       226          50.
5    TIA76   00030  (((S                    23            4(9 0        40 t         458.8        595.9        774 2         842.5      66775 2      6418.5
7    7011'  I. T7T' 000 Al'.  TO'  7    4500         4524         574~~~~~~~~~~~~I 4 M  65.2 77           9y          767.  0      2776
lImO1   I'll07~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:7                                                     .,
72707707                 471          479          557          007~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  8821  2667  71.   '5            9859
7 4( -457                                   .7             03         79 II         404         47.3          421 7        42.          4   7,       94.5'S
707 ....                                                 I35            77          -4            72        255            775          26           66
LEAD                           1'        6~~~         ~~~~         ~~~     ~ ~~~~           ~            ~~~~~~~~ ~ A               7  I    7 .4g
6329   FI                                                 77           07           419          428          67           26           ¶55          7
IsOLLT''   01,                                  "           )          21            208            24         74           483            7'I         977
2    70T~~~I  cl/I.:  7177  7  "0>   3300          '1079 ~~~~~~~~~~~~752     5222         6207         319.5        1777 T 72¶045711  1  11 
5.  0         I5T ,,71511''AND OT'HERS50                                              47 "04 A4                               71. 4I                   75.I
I 77   '77    071                                      7             141 N       444         57.          68 6            19         73.3        579
Veto. Added
LABOR FORCE ANE(97DrAe
026511 II' l7I'T161N7N       TAO'. .'    ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~11717 777  4¶5  /1740                                                                       =JPA79  B4Lbo  oe                                     (0i55
645007  7ll'T I II,              03~     ~ ~         ~     ~      ~     ~~~~~~~7  7a  I0                                                            AgrIcltur                    .617        93.0       606        3.
4020T14A17T1771l176   SI7TA"'0~F 507  '7          7 7           07I          025                                                                                                      .219       50.3       225glfl
78500 1N/',7T                 7 7')        7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o" 40 07  ,                                                                              oa                        .9ev      150.2       ¶239      1431.5
(6et4.L Ooer.nl               199     1910    1974    19       I97     1979    1983                                                                             867410 ON                                                   ....l .rsoed
Current Seo*Tols/699  10.8    12.2    16~~~~~~~..9.15.8    153 1.?    15.6                                                                         1fUK  .5g81969-73    1975-75                                7979-83
Sogoetaro tavlngs  1.6  2.1  2.0  9.6  7.1  s.,  1.0                                                           Poser                                22.3        14.7        39.9~~~~~~~~~227   14.  39.
Other ...tI ......   IaIo    26        11        .6      .9     34        .3     3.8                                                                            Ar..eos aed -0l-l6- 79t              1.9        44.1         24.6
Pobtlt Sct---  tr-ete-t        2.5      6.6     7.3     89     1.         .      ot59,-                                                                                                                          7.             .
708*L Eseendil-tm                   139.5       155.5        105.0
.S&L&bot!kSyrresLIssssOol  1970    1939    6~~~~~~~~979    190P916Scs  s.aglg                                                                                                           19.9       49.6         49.3
(43645425                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27.6    24.7    23.3    23.3                                                                                CptLtveue439                                      1.-
Other SocIaL Serolte.        ~~~~~~~14.  15.  16.5    15.7                                                                                             ReIZZPInon   te)424                              6.5          4.
Aorlcuoure                             13.9      9.0    10.6     6.4                                                                                             88..89  FIelNo..In  (16967            15.64       2.5          2.2
5643, EsonusAt ServIces      1~~~~ ~~~0.3    13.9    13.5    12.3                                                                                                                                                    o-
AdeAn s.r. on and esaT 1.O83                            3.1     3,                                                                                                                                     3.5       100.0        10.
00560 (debt ser.. i-                    7.9      8.7     8.5    10.7
70  0.   139.I  1"O.    139.3
I/ 0710345 .. .....t dswetoEp-t e68411



9255 5
-7 ---------- a    . . . ...           .......052   s sias
707 I          22           70             0*           'a             ct           77              00          25                7-            72            a0           77
1~~~2..                                   rT.~~~s,0                               .27 5
043522a a 17c7sss02a22IT
2aa72107a102472745  74077  25-7  427 4     427           227-7         0140            -S          t1S           07            70..2a1                   '. 2                07 4 : :
s.............            asa                 lv           290           2*.             71           5.            7ac           773          229            22             ia       ac aS              al.   7 5
2    50S0t20   lieLAlCaIa   - 7247   497-22. 7                  20.7         -*72-3*4                    77*          A77.5           -754            2002         -77  a         soi
7251  70155 424707   777e5  54 a   -42           -597          -IsI          -75           -s0         -0.            -077          a20         -aa'              -* 2           774          -**
Ts slsla,sa                               la         -S             7.a           2              2*          -a4           -9               0'           2-             5              5              * 27 9
014017-a  a20422*777ags*  -a7-a2-i4-I  70.7  -277  -ala         '472          -2a'           52.0            470          '79.7        -'00*         -2224~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
7 *775777aa0a51.52   '2097  47 7  7       0-2          775-47                    -904          '276        - * aI             7.'l,0                      -7-            5.*        -*.
a  iaaia   ...agst 2.1.a....                                                                     0            -              0                           0               aa                           a
a    oi775aoaaog,goasaaiaaaa    77          405          7~11-7          207.       4                 l            ss           ao            2s                   a      f                a              :
2s7220077-i276700527      72a           765          i'-a         -77           -42a          75-3         -10.           -277           a2.5            'oo            sas           744          aa 
a -   2777 aassa  754475*5  a-           A            772            a 5           a0           i-s             .0            *0          2.0               '           a-0 oQ0                     so 
s6a272'4s7227.a  175277-276  a,           2-7          ia.2         1 7.s           a0.....0.                                                                                             4            .
a.   aiagi'saaassaa  a  27¶  es.a    5* *         0777          7222           ¶394         72*7          257.7           4477          270.2         a*'-a         774.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



_ 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO BONDURAS BY MAJOR LENDERS AiD SECTORS, 1970-79
(in millions of constant FY79 US dollail) /1
IBRD/IDA    IDB      CABEI /2    AID       TOTAL
Transport                   104.0        38.2      113.5          -      255.7
Power                       121.0        77.0       69.2       10.6      277.8
Education                    13.6        20.7          -       10.2       44.5
Health                          -         7.3          -         .4        7.7
Housing                         -        14.1          -        1.3       15.4
Agriculture                  32.1        75.9       12.8       29.2      150.0
Manufacturing                15.0        91.9       12.5        4.2      123.6
Water and Sewerage              -        56.9        6.5          -       63.4
Other                        19.5         2.5        9.9       34.6       66.5
305.2       384.5     224.4       90.5   1,004.6
/1    IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
/2    Excludes operations with the private sector.



- 28 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of May 31, 1980) 2/
Loan or
Credit                                                      US$ Million Amount
No.    Year        Borrower            Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eighteen loans and credits fully disbursed    61.1   41.1
841      1972  Emp. Nacional de       Generation and   12.3       -       0.8
Energia Electrica    Transmission
896      1973  Honduras               Roads             18.8      -       0.1
954      1974  Honduras               Education          3.0      -       0.5
108 1    1975  Emp. Nacional de       Generation and
Energia Electrica    Transmission    35.0        -       0.5
628      1976  Honduras               Agricultural
Credit             -    14.0       5.0
1341/2   1976  Honduras               Highways          35.0     -       11.8
1395/6   1977  Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports              12.0      -       2.4
777      1978  Honduras               Education           -     5.0       4.9
1576     1978  Honduras               Regional
Development      10.5     -        9.3
1629     1978  Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica   Power              30.5     -       19.4
1659     1979  Honduras               Industrial Cr.   15.0      -       14.9
1673     1979  Honduras               Tourism           19.5     -       19.3
1805/
989 2/  1980  Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica   Power             105.0   20.0    125.0
1833/
1005 2/ 1980  Honduras               Agricultural
Credit           20.0    5.0      25.0
1861 2/  1980  Honduras               Petroleum Explo-
ration Promotion 5.0       -       8.0
Total                                  380.7  185.1
of which has been repaid               31.0    1.1
Total now outstanding                  349.7   84.0
Amount sold                 4.5
of which has been repaid  3.4           1.1      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA 1/                            348.6   84.0
Total undisbursed                      207.0   34.9    241.9
1/   Including exchange adjustment.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1980)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year                  Obligor      Type of Business    Loan    Equity   Total
1964/66       Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A. (ECCASA)           Tannery         0.30    0.08      0.38
1969/70       Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)             Pulp and Paper      -      0.08      0.08
1978          Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V.            Textiles        9.00    1.00    10.00
Total gross commitments                  9.30    1.16    10.46
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                               6.30    0.16      6.46
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                  3.00    1.00      4.00
Total undisbursed                        _        _



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 841   Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
About 90 percent of the project, which included 26 MW of
diesels, an interconnection line to Nicaragua, a load
dispatch system, studies and training, has been completed.
Its full completion will be delayed until mid-1981 due to
slow preparation of the load dispatch system and the addition
of a geothermal resource study. Project costs have increased
by 14.3 percent (about US$2.3 million), to be financed by a
loan from the OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation
of the Borrower.
Ln. 896   Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The construc-
tion of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road (the main project component),
the Comayagua-La Libertad Road, 80 km of feeder roads, and
technical and economic studies for 430 km of feeder roads have
been finished. Preparation of engineering studies for 3 rural
roads delayed completion of project works about two and
one-half years beyond the original schedule. The final dis-
bursement application is being mailed to the Bank.
Ln. 954   First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan of January 9,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$3 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes agricultural
training centers, an extension to the agricultural school at
Catacamas, vocational training centers at San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa and teacher training facilities. These project
elements are all substantially completed. The small amount of
remaining funds has been committed for library books for
teacher training schools and equipment and furniture for the
Catacamas school. All funds are expected to be disbursed
within the next two months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 1081 Sixth Power Project: US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
This project includes the 46 MW extension of the Rio Lindo
hydroelectric plant, distribution system improvements, rural
electrification works, studies and training. The plant
extension went into operation ahead of schedule. Some
US$1.1 million of the savings under the loan, realized from
lower than expected steel prices and other cost reductions,
are being used, with Bank approval, to finance part of the
extension of 35 kV lines to serve rural areas in western
Honduras from the Nispero power plant. This project is
expected to be completed by 1981, two years later than
originally estimated.
Cr. 628   First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 million Credit of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. All credit funds were committed ahead of schedule
by the end of 1979. Difficulties in recruiting suitable
internationally experienced technicians, who have now all been
hired, have resulted in slower disbursements than forecast for
technical assistance operations.
Ln. 1341/ Seventh Highway Project: US$35.0 million Loan (including
1312 US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with construction
works ahead of schedule and of good quality. Due to heavy
rainfall, additional protection works are planned for a portion
of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road. Procurement of
maintenance equipment is over 90 percent completed; consultants
in maintenance operations have been retained and their technical
assistance is progressing well. Preparation of the Highway
Master Plan is complete. The contracting process for a study
in the area of influence of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas
road in the Guayape valley, with a view to the integrated
rural development of the area, is underway.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. 1395/ Third Port Project: US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396 million on Third Window Terms) of April 22, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$5.0 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes the construction
of Puerto Castilla on the north coast and the expansion of San
Lorenzo in the south. The new facilities at San Lorenzo have
been put into operation. The civil works contractor at Puerto
Castilla is about twelve months behind schedule, mainly
because of failures in key equipment and delays in obtaining
proper spares and making an effective start on pile driving.
The contractors recently stopped work, and the Borrower is
proceeding with arrangements to change contractors.
Cr. 777   Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of April 6,
1978;  Date of Effectiveness:  August 15, 1978;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Disbursements have been delayed by procurement difficulties
but the construction of the rural primary schools has begun.
Bidding for construction of the forestry school has begun.
Design of the agriculture school is completed and bidding
is expected to start shortly. Specialists in school mapping
and rural education are being recruited, and the in-service
teacher training program is under preparation.
Ln. 1576  Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million Loan of
June 16, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government has established the project unit and appointed
its staff and other officers required for the project. The
special revolving fund is now operating and procurement docu-
ments have been approved by the Bank. Three training courses
have already been carried out, and a research program is being
implemented. Credit operations are underway, and the road
component has been completed six months ahead of schedule.
Ln. 1629  Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 million Loan of December 15,
1978;  Date of Effectiveness:  April 16, 1979;  Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major equipment components for this project have already been
ordered. Most of the consultants have already been engaged
and the main civil works contractor has begun operations.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. 1659  Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 million Loan of March 8,
1.79;  Date of Effectiveness:  July 5, 1979;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The new Industrial Development Fund has been established and
capitalized; its initial staff has been recruited.  Participa-
tion agreements have been signed with CODHEFOR and a number
of commercial banks. The Bank has approved 32 subprojects.
Ln. 1673  Tourism Development Project:  US$19.5 million Loan of June 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: November 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The foreign experts and their local counterparts have been
hired and interagency agreements for project implementation
have been signed. Two subloans have been approved.
Ln. 1805  El Cajon Power Project:  US$105.0 million Loan of March 27, 1980,
Cr.  989  and US$20.0 million Credit of April 10, 1980; Terminal Date for
Effectiveness:  October 31, 1980; Closing Date: February 28,
1987.
The Borrower is in the process of fulfilling the conditions of
effectiveness.
Ln. 1833  Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$20.0 million Loan and
Cr. 1005  US$5.0 million Credit of Apri  18, 1980_ Terminal Date for
Effectiveness: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Borrower is in the process of fulfilling the conditions
of effectiveness.
Ln. 1861  Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project:  US$3.0 million Loan
of June 23, 1980; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: September 23,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The Borrower is in the process of fulfilling the conditions
of effectiveness.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
HONDURAS
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation and Pre-Appraisal
(i) First discussion with Government: April 1978
(ii) Bank identification mission: January 1979
(iii) Preparation by Government: 1978-79
(b) Appraisal Mission Departure: December 1979
(c) Negotiations Completed: June 25, 1980
(d) Loan Effectiveness Planned: December 31, 1980
Section II: Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed that:
that:
(i) It would consult periodically with the Bank to
ensure continued adequate staffing of SECOPT
(paragraph 29);
(ii) It would, no later than January 1, 1982, estab-
lish a countrywide system of national traffic
counts, and, no later than June 30, 1983, would
update the Highway Master Plan (paragraph 30);
(iii) It would, no later than January 15, 1982, submit
to the Bank for comment a proposal for systematic
funding of the renewal of maintenance equipment,
to begin on January 1, 1983 (paragraph 32); no
later than January 1, 1981, define the functions
of and operating procedures for SECOPT's branch
of the Central Supply Office, and thereafter
monitor performance under the new arrangement
(paragraph 32); provide all the funds necessary



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
to ensure implementation of the 1981-84 maintenance
program (paragraph 47); and no later than June 30, 1981,
establish and equip RTPU and MTPU and provide adequate
funds for their operation (paragraph 51);
(iv) It would continue its program of controlling the
*                          weights and dimensions of vehicles using national
roads (paragraph 35);
(v)  It would, not later than June 30, 1981, advise the
Bank of its proposed actions resulting from the
review of the local construction industry
(paragraph 36);
(vi) It would exchange views annually with the Bank on:
the progress made in carrying out, and the continuing
appropriateness of, the highway investment program
(paragraph 38); and the status of its entire feeder
roads progra5i and on the operations of its Department
of Labor-Based Construction (paragraph 45);
(vii) It would, no later than December 15, 1980 and each
June 30 thereafter, submit to the Bank for comment
the list of feeder roads, including their final
engineering and economic justification, to be
constructed under the project during the following
year (paragraph 45);
(viii)  As a condition of disbursement for maintenance
equipment and spare parts to be purchased under
the project, it would equip and put into operation
the San Pedro Sula workshop (paragraph 31); and
(ix) As a condition of disbursement for the feeder roads
component, it would establish a Feeder Roads Section
in DGH's existing Project Unit and appoint a civil
engineer acceptable to the Bank as its head
(paragraph 51).






§   F   u   '  4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ln,-
X   :S   4   x  Z  !  _. rx < ) _Z~~~~~~~~~~U-
0 : : K = ; g g ... , ;1 ' !| il>
-:;:D i; :~~~~~~~~0 3--  (;0:-t       a
-e ; $0 0'\' '5< 5 3070 ; i S S-f0 ;; ; b  ;  - 
;   0  9   0   .-t  _   0   E   >  V   0   '  :  *  _   2  |  i  =  0  _   0~~~~~~~1
0   ;;  A   *   X   X   > )   X :   , X   f   ,:'    -  X   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
' :''SoM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



