OFFICIAL
DOCUMTS         LOAN NUMBER 1901 HO
Loan Agreement
(Eighth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated             2L               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1901 HO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       1   lat 2f           , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SECOPT" means the Borrower's Secretaria de Comunica-
ciones, Obras Pfblicas y Transporte;
(b) "Maintenance Program" means the program for maintenance
of the Borrower's road system under the jurisdiction of SECOPT,
to be carried out by the Borrower during the years 1981 - 1984,
as described in SECOPT's Reports dated November 1979 and February
1980;
(c) "Road Training Production Unit" and "RTPU" means the
unit to be established in accordance with Section 3.05 of this
Agreement;
(d) "Mechanical Training Production Unit" and "MTPU" means
the unit to be established in accordance with Section 3.05 of
this Agreement;
(e) "Sub-Project" means a specific road section of the
Borrower's feeder road system to be rehabilitated, improved or
constructed under the Project;


﻿-2-
(f) "DGM" means the Borrower's Direcci6n General de
Mantenimiento de Caminos y Aeropuertos established as a Direc-
torate within SECOPT and in charge, inter alia, of carrying
out road and highway maintenance, and maintenance training pro-
grams;
(g) "DGC" means the Borrower's Direcci6n General de
Caminos established as a Directorate within SECOPT and in charge
of carrying out construction and supervision of feeder and secon-
dary roads;
(h) ".Feeder Roads Program" means the Borrower's program
for rehabilitation, improvement and construction of feeder roads
to be carried out by the Borrower during the years 1981 - 1984;
and
(i) "Feeder Roads Section" and "FRS" means the section to
be established within DGC pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment and "Field Offices" means the offices to be established
within DGC under the jurisdiction of FRS, pursuant to Section 3.04
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth percent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semianually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, acting by means of SECOPT,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,
environmental, financial and road construction and maintenance
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose; and
(b) the Borrower shall carry out the Maintenance Program
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, environmental, financial and
road maintenance practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Parts B.2, C.5 and D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-4
(b) The Borrower, for purposes of carrying out Part D of
the Project, shall, upon the employment of the consultants
referred to in paragraph (a) above, assign to each one of them
and until the completion of the Project, competent counterpart
staff in number and with qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by December 15, 1980
and thereafter not later than June 30 of each year until the
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for approval, the
final engineering and the economic evaluation of each of the
Sub-projects to be carried out during the following calendar
year.
Section 3.04.The Borrower shall:
(a) establish, and thereafter maintain, within DGC, a
Feeder Roads Section, and field offices as required, for coor-
dinating the planning and construction of the feeder roads
included in the Project with such organization, responsibilities,
functions and staffing as shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(b) employ, as head of FRS, a civil engineer with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part D.1 of
the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1981,
establish and thereafter maintain a Road Training Production
Unit and a Mechanical Training Production Unit for carrying out
training programs, and provide, promptly as needed, the necessary
staff, facilities, funds and equipment, including spare parts
and other resources, as shall be required for the efficient
operation thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance, any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be


﻿-5-
used exclusively for the carrying out of the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for
the benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be
created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any  external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and
at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loaa by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank,
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-7-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) employ in SECOPT such experienced and competent staff as
shall be required to manage and operate efficiently all depart-
ments, units and other administrative subdivisions of SECOPT;
(b) not later than January 1, 1981, stablish and maintain
thereafter a system, satisfactory to the Bank, to expedite the
purchasing of spare parts;
(c) not later than January 15, 1982, establish a program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for systematic funding of the renewal
of SECOPT's maintenance equipment and vehicles and, starting
January 1, 1983, carry out such program;
(d) not later than January 1, 1982, establish, and there-
after maintain, a country-wide system of traffic counts, satis-
factory to the Bank, and on the basis, inter alia, of such system,
update, not later than June 30, 1983, the Borrower's Highway
Master Plan for selecting and programming highway investment
projects; and
(e) not later than July 31 in each year, beginning on
July 31, 1981 and until the completion of the Project, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to:
(i) the staffing requirements of SECOPT;
(ii) the progress made in the carrying out, and tne
continuing suitability of, the Borrower's Highway
Investment Program (1980-1984); and
(iii) the carrying out of the Feeder Roads Program and on
the operations of DGC's Department of Labor-Based
Road Construction.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) adequately maintain its road network in accordance
with sound engineering and financial practices;


﻿-8-
(b) adequately maintain all of SECOPT's road maintenance
equipment and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering practices;
(c) establish and maintain workshops and stocks of spare
parts as required for the foregoing; and
(d) take all necessary action and provide the necessary
funds and resources for the foregoing.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) SECOPT efficiently enforces the vehicle dimension and
axle-road regulations of the Borrower in effect on the date of
this Agreement; and
(b) SECOPT monitors the data collected in the enforcement
of such regulations, and, at any time at the request of the
Bank, exchanges views with the Bank on the results of such moni-
toring.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1981, inform the Bank of its proposed action to promote the
construction industry of Honduras and afford the Bank a reasonable
time to comment thereon; such proposal shall be prepared taking
into account the recommendations of the studies carried out
pursuant to the provisions of Loan Agreements Nos. 1341-HO and
1342-T-HO, both entered into by the Borrower and the Bank on
December 16, 1976.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall monitor and control, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) the utilization of maintenance equipment by DGM;
(b) the carrying out of the Maintenance Program in accor-
dance with adequate road maintenance standards;
(c) the number of trainees participating in the training
programs under Part D of the Project;
(d) the traffic counts to be carried out periodically on
public roads; and
(e) the performance of the system referred to in Section
4.03 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date      &avmba 30,,) i 9O   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretario de Hacienda y Credito Publico
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pu'blico
Tegucigalpa
Honduras
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                  8w hc4Q  O~Lz  Ldt*6-                I
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works for               9,820,000        55%
Parts A and
B.1 of the Project
and engineering
services for Part
B.2 of the Project
(2) Equipment, vehicles,         10,010,000        100% of for-
spare parts and tools                         eign expendi-
for Parts A.2, C.1,                           tures
C.2, C.3, C.4 and D.2
of the Project
(3) Technical assistance          1,575,000        80%
for Parts C.5 and
D.1 of the Project
(4) Training for Part D.1            25,000        100% of for-
of the Project                                eign expendi-
tures
(5) Unallocated                   6,570,000
TOTAL         28,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign ex-
penditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) Category 2 on account of payments made for Parts C.1
through C.4 of the Project until the San Pedro Sula workshop is
operating in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) Category 1 on account of payments made for Part A of
the Project until the Feeder Roads Section has been established
and the civil engineer referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement has been employed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting


﻿- 13 -
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) carrying out of the Maintenance Program; (b) construction
of feeder roads to facilitate the access to and from rural areas;
(c) improvement of secondary roads; and (d) strenghtening,
through training programs, the technical capability of SECOPT.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Feeder Roads
1.   Engineering, design and construction of about 350 km of
feeder roads serving selected agricultural valleys, according
to design standards as described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.   Acquisition and utilization of vehicles for supervision
of the above civil works.
Part B:   Secondary Roads
1.   Improvement of about 115 km of secondary roads as described
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.   Engineering supervision for the above improvement.
Part C:   Road Maintenance
1.   Acquisition and utilization of road maintenance equipment
and vehicles and the establishment of an initial stock of spare
parts.
2.   Improvement  of SECOPT's maintenance workshops, including
acquisition and utilization of related workshop tools and equip-
ment.
3.   Establishment of a preventative maintenance system for
SECOPT's maintenance equipment, including acquisition and utiliza-
tion of related spare parts.
4.   Rehabilitation of SECOPT'S existing maintenance equipment,
including acquisition and utilization of related spare parts.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Strengthening of DGM's technical and managerial capabilities
as required to carry out the Maintenance Program.
Part D:   Training
1.   Strengthening of DGM's Training Department through estab-
lishment of training units to carry out on-the-job training
and seminars for DGM's personnel at all levels, including short
courses abroad for about three staff members of DGM's Training
Department.
2.   Acquisition of teaching and training equipment and materials
and utilization thereof by DGM's Training Department.
3.   Construction and equipping of training facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1986
through   May 1, 2000                       935,000
and on November 1, 2000                          885,000


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             2.75%
More than six years but not
more then eleven years
before maturity                                      5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                      7.40%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                      8.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                      9.25%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification doCuments relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works under Part B.1 of the Project shall
be required to prequalify pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 19 -
5.   Before issuing the invitations to bid, goods to be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall, for
bidding purposes, be divided into lots, such lots to be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment, vehicles, parts and tools estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured
in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, including local advertising; provided, however, that the
aggregate of the contracts procured shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $500,000.
2.   Contracts for spare parts for specific brands estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be directly procured
through negotiated purchases from established and reliable sup-
pliers in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.   Contracts for civil works for Part A shall be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank; provided, however, that to the extent of DGC's
capability, such civil works may be carried out by DGC on force
account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the proce-
dure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more and contracts for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:


﻿- 20 -
(a) Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants refer-
red to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 21 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination,


﻿- 22 -
Schedule 5
Design Standards for Secondary and Feeder Roads
(Estimates)
Plat-
form   Shoul-
Secondary        Length Design Speed Width   ders    Minimum Radius Maximum Grade
Roads         -    km       km/m        m      m     of Curvature i      %
F    R   M                  F     R    M    F    R    M
1. Rio Dulce-
El Porvenir    48    80   60 40    7.0     -     210   115 50     4    7   8
2. Danli-Santa
Maria
(a) Danli-
Los Al-
mendros
Bridge    29    80   60 40    7.0(*) 1.50  210    115 50     4    6   8
(b) Los Al-
mendros
Bridge-
Santa
Maria     18    80   60 40    7.0     -    210    115 50     4    6    8
3. Telica-S.
Francisco
De La Paz      20    80  60 50     7.7     -    210    115 50     4    7  10
Feeder Roads      350    80  60 40     4.5     -    210    115 50     4   7   10
Topography: F - Flat
R - Rolling
M - Mountainous
(*) To be paved.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2A    -day of         198   .
FOR SECRETARY


