Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22098-PAK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION
(US$21.35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 10, 2001
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2001)
Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.0 = US$0.0165
US$1.0 = Rs 60.55
FISCAL YEAR
July I June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWB       - Area Water Board                             M&E       - Monitoring and Evaluation
BST       - Baseline Survey Team                         NDP       - National Drainage Project
DESA      - Distributary Environmental & Social Assessment   NGO   - Non-Government Organization
CAS       - Country Assistance Strategy                  NWFP    - North West Frontier Province
CDSG      - Conmmunity Development and Support Group     OFWM    - On-Farm Water Management
EA        - Environmental Assessment                     O&M       - Operations and Maintenance
ECNEC    - Executive Comnmittee of National Economic     PAMIS    - Project Accounting and Management
Council                                                  Information System
EMP       - Environmental Management Plan                PAS       - Project Accounting Staff
EPA       - Environmental Protection Agency              PCC       - Project Coordination Committee
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return                      PID       - Provincial Irrigation Department
FATA      - Federally Administered Tribal Areas          PIDA      - Provincial Irrigation & Drainage Authority
FATADC  - FATA Development Corporation                   PIMM      - Participatory Irrigation Management Model
FIDA      - NWFP Irrigation & Drainage Authority         PMR       - Project Management Report
FIMPS    - Framework for Identifying, Preparing, and     PPC       - Provincial Policy Committee
Monitoring Sub-Projects                      SEA       - Sector Environmental Assessment
FO        - Farner Organization                          SOT       - Social Organization Team
FWUA    - Federation of Water User Associations          TA        - Technical Assistance
GOP       - Government of Pakistan                       TMM       - Transfer Management Model
IBIS      - Indus Basin Irrigation System                TST       - Technical Support Team
ISRP      - Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Projects   WUA       - Water User Association
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director    John W. Wall
Sector Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Rashed ul Qayyum



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                       15
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     22
2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           26
2. Other                                                                             26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Economic Analysis Summary                    58
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              71
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    85
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  86
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 87
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           90
Annex 11: Social and Environmental Assessment                                           92
MAP(S)
IBRD 22655R



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
Date: April 10, 2001                              Team Leader: Rashed U Qayyum
Country Manager/Director: John W. Wall            Sector Manager/Director: Ridwan Ali
Project ID: P071092                               Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage, BD -
Decentralization, BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $21.35 million (SDR 16.6 million)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Service charge: 0.01%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       3.70           0.00          3.70
IDA                                                           19.60           1.75         21.35
FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                           6.70           0.30          7.00
Total:                                                        30.00           2.05         32.05
Borrower: GOVT. OF PAKISTAN
Responsible agency: NWFP OFWM DIRECTORATE AND FATADC
Water Management Directorate, Agriculture Department, N.W.F.P.
Address: 5th Floor, Benevolent Fund Building, Peshawar Cantt
Contact Person: Mr. Muhammad Yousaf Khattak, Director Water Management
Tel: 921-1939                Fax: 921-1933                Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Federally Administered Tribal Areas Development Corporation (FATADC)
Address: Warsak Road, Peshawar
Contact Person: Mr. Taj M. Afridi, Executive Director
Tel: 921-2149              Fax: 921-2144                Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006       2007
Annual    1.50        1.50       6.00       7.00      4.00       1.35
Cumulative    1.50        3.00      9.00      16.00     20.00      21.35
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD PamD Pmt Min 2O00



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
A. 1.1  The North West Frontier Province On-Fann Water Management Project's (NWFP-OFWM)
development objective is to reduce rural poverty through increased agricultural production leading to
increased farm incomes. This objective would be achieved by: (a) improving the reliability, efficiency and
equity of distribution of available irrigation water; (b) increasing on-farm water use efficiency; and (c)
enhancing long-term financial sustainability of the irrigation system by supporting the government's effort
to foster self sustaining farmer organizations (FOs). The FOs will be responsible for: managing,
operating, and maintaining the water distribution infrastructure; collecting revenue from water charges; and
contributing to the capital cost of investments in the water distribution system.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A.2. 1 The key performance indicators are: higher agricultural productivity (increased crop yields and
cropping intensities, and shift in the cropping pattern to higher value crops); formation of effective FOs and
their participation in the operation and management of the irrigation systems at the distributary and
watercourse levels; reduction in public sector operations and maintenance (O&M) costs at the tertiary
levels; increase in water supply; and improved equity and timeliness of water distribution.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15115-PAK; and Progress Report of December 28, 1998
Date of latest CAS discussion:  January 21, 1999
B. 1.1 The overall objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in Pakistan is to help reduce poverty. To
address this objective, the Bank's approach highlights two closely linked challenges: improving the
inadequate basic social services and reducing constraints to sustained growth. Expanding access to and
improving the quality of basic social services are essential to improve living standards in Pakistan. In
addition to assisting the completion of fiscal adjustment, the Bank's strategy is to support the growth
objectives by focusing on structural reforms, improving the enabling environment for the private sector,
strengthening inadequate basic infrastructure, reducing constraints on agriculture productivity, and
protecting Pakistan's natural resource base. The Bank is assisting in the redefinition of the public and
private sectors in Pakistan by focusing on public policy formulation, institutional development, critical
public investments for private sector led growth, and strengthening the basis for private investments.
B. 1.2 In the irrigation and drainage subsector, the government has adopted a completely new approach
to address the irrigation system crisis (Pakistan-Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options, Report No.
11884-PAK, March 25, 1994), which the Bank is supporting through various operations. Consistent with the
CAS, the goals of establishing an efficient, self-sustaining irrigation and drainage system are to be achieved
by promoting the use of market-determined incentives for improving the supply and management of
irrigation and drainage services, and by giving the beneficiaries a greater stake in the system. The
irrigation service is being decentralized by developing commercially oriented area water boards (AWBs) on
a canal command level, while the management at the, distributary/minor level would be transferred to FOs.
Autonomous provincial irrigation and drainage authorities (PIDAs) have been established for water
delivery to AWBs and for handling off-farm drainage and regulations. The ongoing National Drainage
Program (NDP) and subsequent proposed irrigation systems improvement projects are providing support
- 2 -



for reinforcing PIDAs and establishing more AWBs. This project would enhance participation of farming
communities in irrigation management at the distributary/minor canal level.
B.1.3  The project supports the CAS goals for sustainable growth, poverty reduction, and enhanced
efficiencies and private/beneficiary participation in the delivery of economic and social services through:
(a) promoting agricultural growth and crop diversification by improving the reliability, timeliness and
equity in the distribution of irrigation water at the farm level; (b) establishing a decentralized,
self-sustaining and participatory institutional apparatus for the operation and management of the irrigation
and drainage systems; and (c) the strategic focus on the participation of communities, NGOs and the
private sector in the institutional arrangements and processes.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
B.2.1 Agriculture is the backbone of Pakistan's economy, employing 47 percent of the labor force and
earning 70 percent of export revenues. Total cultivated area is 22 million hectares (ha), with overall
cropping intensity of 105 percent. Pakistan's agriculture is almost wholly dependent on irrigation; irrigated
land supports more than 90 percent of agricultural production. Agriculture in most areas is not possible
without irrigation because the climate is arid to semiarid with low and variable rainfall. However, there are
abundant surface water resources in the Indus Basin, which covers 566,000 kmI and is the major source of
Pakistan's water. The Indus Basin Irrigation System (IBIS) commands about 14 million ha which accounts
for the bulk of the agriculturally productive land. Annual river inflows average about 180 billion m' of
which about 130 billion m are diverted to canals. The IBIS is composed of three major reservoirs
(Chasma, Mangla, and Tarbela), 19 barrages, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands and about 135,000
watercourses, one-third of which are already renovated.
B.2.2 The NWFP covers 13 percent (10.2 million ha) of the total country area. It has nearly 2 million
ha cultivated land with an overall cropping intensity of 113 percent. The majority of people (85 percent)
live in rural areas, compared to 68 percent for the rest of Pakistan. Consequently, agriculture in the
province employs 4 percent more labor force than the country average of 47 percent. Irrigated agriculture
which accounts for 51 percent of the cultivated area supports about 60 percent of the agricultural
production. While much of the irrigated area is outside the IBIS command, 83 percent of the irrigated
lands are supplied water by the canal systems, of which 13 percent of land is supplemented by groundwater
(through tubewells and persian-wheel wells). About half the canal command area of 0.78 million ha is
served by government canals and the remaining half by the private canals, commonly known as civil canals.
NWFP has about 20,400 watercourses, of which 31 percent are already renovated under the previous
on-farm water management (OFWM) programs.
B.2.3 As is prevalent in Pakistan, the irrigation and drainage systems of the province are facing severe
problems. Despite the government's substantial budgetary input (the yearly allocations relative to other
sectors may seem healthy but may have been grossly inadequate to effect the required maintenance), the
systems face shortage of resources and suffer from worsening operational problems. In addition to water
scarcity, the subsector faces major problems: inefficient management of water systems (low delivery
efficiency and inequitable distribution); waterlogging and salinity; over-exploitation of groundwater in fresh
groundwater areas; inadequate O&M; and insufficient cost recovery. The average delivery efficiency is
reported to be between 35 percent to 40 percent from the canal head to the root zone.
- 3 -



B.2.4 The actual situation is even worse--most of the water losses occur in the unlined watercourses.
Traditionally, the watercourses suffer from improper design, poor maintenance of channel banks, frequent
siltation, inadequate provision for culverts and animal drinking points, and nonstandard outlets for
irrigating the fields. The loss of such a major part of surface water not only reduces the available water for
crops but also contributes to waterlogging and salinity. With reduced water availability, irrigators at the
tail-end of watercourses, in particular, are exposed to greater risks of crop failures which provides a
disincentive for them not to use other non-water inputs. In many instances, farmers are no longer keen to
adopt measures which enhance the water application efficiency.
B.2.5 Another serious problem is inequitable water distribution, that arises from excessive losses in the
conveyance system, and due to unauthorized outlets and illegal pumping from canals. Poorly maintained
watercourses and minor canals have the highest incidence of illegal diversion. There are no effective
foruns of the farmers to raise their concerns, therefore collective actions are rarely contemplated to check
the inequities of water distribution. Moreover, the excessive role of the government in irrigation
management does not encourage meaningful beneficiary participation in the system management.
B.2.6 Pakistan has invested in rehabilitating the irrigation and drainage systems. At the tertiary level of
irrigation distribution system, the OFWM program started in 1976, when the government began improving
the watercourses, constructing water storage tanks, and developing hill torrent based irrigation systems.
Under this donor (i.e., IDA, USAID, ADB, OECF, and others) supported program, to date about 44,000
watercourses have been improved. Under the Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Projects (ISRP) which
started in 1982, an attempt was made to clear backlog in the maintenance of irrigation canals and surface
drains. Both programs were highly successful in making physical improvements to the systems. However,
these programs lacked the institutional changes needed for long-term sustainability of the systems.
B.2.7 Beneficiary participation is one of the key features of the OFWM program, and it is popular
among the fanming community. Under the three completed projects, the water users associations (WUAs)
enthusiastically participated in implementing the projects and made considerable contributions to capital
costs. However, after the improvement works were completed the WUAs became inactive. Therefore, the
gains made by WUA involvement began to dissipate over time as the required maintenance works were not
tended to routinely. After analyzing the reasons for inactivity (i.e., lack of partnership approach in
irrigation management, continued inequities in water distribution), several pilots were implemented to
organize FOs at the distributary/minor level with clearly devolved roles for the operation and management
of the infrastructure, and more importantly, recovery of water rates.
B.2.8 In the past, various OFWM programs improved the supply of irrigation water below the mogha (a
designated water outlet in the minor or distributary canal) level, yet they fell short of addressing the
problems of an overly centralized and bureaucratic public sector institutional set-up to manage irrigation
and drainage systems. In order to address this problem the federal and provincial governments are moving
towards major restructuring of the provincial departments, by establishing autonomous PIDAs,
commercially oriented AWBs at the canal comnmands to operate the main and branch canals, and
participatory FOs for the operation and management of the system at the distributary/minor level. The
proposed NWFP-OFWM would deepen the institutional reforms which aim at improving operational
efficiency at all tiers of the system. The project would focus at the tertiary level by establishing and
sustaining effective FOs, and hence will form an important link in the chain of institutional reforms.
- 4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
B.3. 1 Building on different pilot projects undertaken in the country, the project would broaden and
deepen the recent reform initiatives started under the National Drainage Project (NDP), and enhance the
participation of farmers in irrigation management at the distributary/minor canal level. The project would
help in establishing sustainable irrigation and drainage systems by rationalizing public expenditures on
O&M of the irrigation and drainage systems, increasing recovery of public expenditures on irrigation
infrastructure, and improving the efficiency of water use. The strategic choices include: (a) establishing
effective organizations, supported by technical staff at the distributary/minor canal level; (b) creating
capacity within these organizations to participate in the management of irrigation system on a sustainable
basis; (c) providing infrastructure improvements after they have demonstrated such capacity; and (d)
enabling farmers' participation in planning, implementing, and maintaining project facilities with
substantial contributions to capital cost.
B.3.2 A major part of the investments is off-farm as it relates to above mogha improvement works at the
distributary and minor canals. These investments are justified because they are instrumental in: (a)
redefining the government's role through formation of comnnunity groups that would take over the system's
O&M; and (b) ensuring the equitable availability of water at the mogha. Equitable access to water by all
users would encourage the laggard WUAs to mobilize their resources for watercourse improvement as the
cost sharing arrangement progressively shifts the responsibility to irrigators rather than the government.
Moreover, these investments have high rates of return, usually above 30 percent, notwithstanding the
catalytic role they will play in bringing about a systemic change.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
C.1.1  The project will cover an area of about 0.23 million ha [210,500 ha in NWFP, and 22,400 ha in
federally administered tribal areas (FATA)], and it will be implemented over five years. Its major
components are: (a) community development and support program to promote formation of FOs through a
well structured social mobilization and support program; (b) distributary-level improvement proram to
provide rehabilitation of distributaries/minors; (c) watercourse and on-farn improvements program to help
renovating and/or constructing watercourses, field ditches, water storage tanks, as well as promoting other
measures which enhance water application efficiency in the canal command and barani areas; (d)
improvements in branch/distribution canals supplying water to secondary level channels managed by
farmers; (e) local/minor irrigation schemes development prorm outside the Indus Basin Irrigation
System; and a (f) project management support component.
(a) Through the community development and support program, FOs will be developed at the
distributary/minor canal level, and will participate in sustainable management and O&M of the
irrigation system. Two models will be followed to enhance the farmers participation in system
management: (i) a transfer of management model (TMM) under which irrigation management would
be fully transferred to FOs after completing an agreed period ofjoint management. A transfer of
management contract will be executed between the government agency and FO, and will define the
terms of transfer and roles of all concerned parties. Under this model six FOs, covering an area of
about 26,000 ha, will be formed; and (ii) a participatory irrigation management model (PIM1\ where
a federation of WUAs (FWUAs, where WUAs are organized at the watercourse level) will be formed
at the distributary/minor canal level to participate in managing the irrigation system. Under this
model, 16 FWUAs, covering an area of about 90,000 ha, will be forned. These FOs/FWUAs will be
- 5 -



involved in the irrigation management, and in planning, designing, and implementing irrigation
improvement works proposed to be constructed under the project, and will be provided with
agricultural support services. Alternate fonrs of the TMM and PIMM approaches, as appropriate
(Annex 2), will also be evaluated.
(b) The distributary-level improvement program assistance will be provided to improve off-farm
distributary/minor canals where FOs/FWUAs have begun participating in the irrigation management.
Twenty-two distributary canals within FO/FWUA areas (20 in NWFP and two in FATA) would be
rehabilitated/improved.
(c) In the watercourse and on-farm improvements program, about 1,380 watercourses (1,330 in NWFP
and 50 in FATA) would be renovated, 350 water storage tanks would be built in the barani areas of
NWFP, precision land leveling would be done on 3,540 ha (3,034 ha in NWFP and 500 ha in FATA)
of land, and 60 demonstration centers (48 in NWFP and 12 in FATA) would be established to
disseminate the full range of water management practices and irrigation agronomy techniques. These
demonstration centers will be knowledge dissemination points. The project would prioritize
investments by focusing on areas that are relatively poor, beginning at the tail-end of the irrigation
system in a proportionate manner. About 31,000 ha of canal irrigated and 15,000 ha of barani
irrigated area will benefit from improved irrigation.
(d) Improvements in branch/distributary canal systems (above FOs/FWUAs) are necessary to improve
water distribution to the distributary/minor canal network. The branch/distributary canals have
deteriorated over time due to over-use and inadequate maintenance for the lack of required funds. They
often carry discharges beyond the limits of safe operation. Under the ongoing reform process the
provincial supply agency [the North West Frontier Province Irrigation and Drainage Authority, or
FIDAI will be mandated to supply the agreed amount of water to FOs/FWUAs, the project will provide
for rehabilitation/improvement of another 20 branch/distributary canals leading to areas managed by
FOs/FWUAs. It would cover an incremental area of about 45,000 ha.
(e) The local/minor irrigation schemes development program is envisaged, with active participation
from farmers, for 25 sites in NWFP and three equivalent sites in FATA (six sites with smaller flows)
where perennial/seasonal flows need to be tapped. It would cover an area of about 22,400 ha. The
intake structures would be improved to increase water captured from the sources and losses would be
reduced in the main delivery channel supplying water to the service area. In flood schemes, simple
rehabilitation would be carried out to improve efficiency and equity.
(f) The project management support component would provide assistance in project supervision, project
launch, mid-term review, impact evaluation, financial management and auditing, development of a
management information system, and training.
- 6 -



Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector       Costs    % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
(a) NWFP                          Institutional      2.32        7.2      1.80       8.4
Community development and         Development
support program
Distributary-level improvement    Irrigation &        4.24      13.2      3.24      15.2
program                           Drainage
Watercourse and On-farm           Irrigation &        9.26      28.9      4.60      21.5
improvement program               Drainage
Improvements in branch/distributary    Irrigation &   1.82       5.7      1.45       6.8
canal systems                     Drainage
Local/minor irrigation schemes    Irrigation &       11.06      34.5      7.87      36.9
development program               Drainage
(b) FATA                          Institutional       0.54       1.7      0.34       1.6
Community development and support   Development
program
Distributary-level improvements   Irrigation &        0.42       1.3      0.32       1.5
program                           Drainage
Watercourse and on-farm improvement  Irrigation &     0.40       1.2      0.20       0.9
program                           Drainage
Local/Minor irrigation schemes    Irrigation &        1.38       4.3      1.00       4.7
development program               Drainage
(c) M&E Wing project management    Institutional      0.61       1.9      0.53       2.5
support                           Development
Total Project Costs                 32.05     100.0     21.35     100.0
Total Financing Required                  32.05     100.0      21.35     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
C.2.1 The project will not seek new policies or institutional reforns but will support the ongoing
institutional reforms involving the decentralization of the provincial irrigation and drainage departments,
redefinition of the public sector's role and its interface with the private sector/beneficiary groups in the
management, and O&M of the irrigation and drainage systems. The organization of beneficiary groups
into viable administrative and financial entities would ensure better cost recovery in collecting water
charges and sharing capital costs for the construction/rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure.
- 7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
C.3.1 A more efficient, productive, and sustainable irrigation and drainage system is capable of making a
greater impact on development at less cost to the government's budget. Cost reduction and efficiency
enhancement would largely accrue as a result of participation of the farming community in irrigation
management at the distributary/minor canal level. In tangible terms, agricultural productivity gains would
come from improved water management practices. Equitable distribution of water would also encourage a
greater number of irrigators to optimize use of other nonwater farm inputs, which in turn would lead to
higher farm productivity. It is generally expected that due to increased water supply at the farm-gate,
cropping intensity would increase by 10 percent or more, and crop yields would increase by five to 10
percent due to better use of inputs and by adopting more appropriate technologies. Moreover, a general
trend would emerge for parts of the target area, as indicated by the sections of a few canal command areas
that have better access to physical and marketing infrastructure, to undergo a gradual shift from
subsistence farming to higher value crops such as orchards and vegetable crops. A great degree of
confidence in attaining project benefits is based on demonstrated effects of similar works in several earlier
on-farm water management and irrigation system rehabilitation projects supported by IDA, and other
donors, notably ADB and OECF.
C.3.2 Higher productivity and crop diversification are indicators that increased agricultural growth
would alleviate poverty in the rural areas of NWFP and FATA, where most of the poorest live--a target
population of some 2.2 million people, constituting about 11 percent of the provincial (including FATA's)
population. The project will yield economic benefits in termns of higher agricultural output, greater rural
employment, equitable distribution of water, and stronger irrigation and drainage sector institutions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
C.4. 1 A provincial policy committee (PPC), synonymous to the projects review board (that already exists
in the NWFP), would provide overall policy guidance and interdepartrnental coordination for the effective
and timely implementation of the project. The PPC would be chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary
(Development), and it's members would be the Secretaries of Irrigation, Agriculture, Planning and
Development/Enviromnent, Finance, and the Director General of the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA). The chairman of FATADC would be the nonprovincial member representing FATA. The Director
OFWM would be the convener/secretary to the PPC. The PPC would meet at least every six months, or
whenever issues requiring resolution are submitted for its consideration. The PPC's main responsibilities of
the PPC would be to: (a) resolve issues not settled by the PCC; (c) ensure provision of an adequate budget
for project implementation, and O&M; (c) ensure that project management staffing is adequate and
continuous; and (d) ensure that the project complies with the legal and financial covenants.
Project Coordination
C.4.2 A project coordination committee (PCC) would be responsible for ensuring coordination among
various agencies, and facilitating project implementation. The PCC would be chaired by Director, OFWM
and it would have members from the provincial Irrigation Department/FIDA (the superintending engineers
of concerned canal and drainage circles); Federally Administered Tribal Area Development Corporation
(FATADC); provincial Agricultural Department (the relevant area coordinators of OFWM, and the deputy
directors of Agriculture); the relevant representatives of the district administration; and the FOs. The PCC
would meet quarterly, and its secretariat would compile quarterly monitoring reports and other special
reports to be submitted to PPC, federal government entities, and IDA.
- 8 -



C.4.3 The Monitoring and Evaluation Wing (M&E Wing) at the Planning, Environment and
Development Department (NWFP) would carry out activities for project supervision, M&E, and special
studies that would help to assess the project's effect. The Wing would: (a) appoint consultants (where
required), for quality assurance, financial accounting, and auditing, who would work closely with the
relevant agencies of NWFP/FATA; (b) coordinate the monitoring of key project performance indicators; (c)
facilitate the project's impact evaluation; and (d) participate in project supervision by the Bank and the
Government of Pakistan (GOP). Implementation arrangements are shown schematically in Annex 2,
Charts 2.1 and 2.2.
Project Implementation
C.4.4 The project would be implemented by the: OFWM Directorate of the Agriculture Department;
Irrigation Department/FIDA; FATADC; and the FOs with support from project implementation
consultants (PICs) and NGOs. The project management would have a minimum of staff for the duration of
the project, and would be supported by the consultants and NGOs. The core management structure would
consist of Director OFWM, and two ex-officio members, one from the Irrigation Department/FIDA and the
other from the Water Management Wing, and would be assisted by the Community Development and
Support Group (CDSG). The Director OFWM would have overall responsibility for the community
development and support program. CDSG would have offices at headquarters and in the field, as needed,
where the social organization program would be launched. CDSG field teams would have multidisciplinary
staff consisting of social organizers, institutional development specialists, agriculturists, agricultural
economists, engineers, and surveyors.
C.4.5 The member (Irrigation), working through the Irrigation Department/FIDA's management and the
canal operation divisions would coordinate transfer/participation of FOs/FWUAs in irrigation management,
including joint management and execution of management transfer/participation contracts, improving canal
systems leading to the FO/FWUA managed areas, local/minor irrigation schemes, and other support
required by FOs/FWUAs to improve canal systems in their areas. The member (OFWM) working with the
water management staff would be responsible for watercourse improvements in distributary-level
FO/FWUA areas as well as in barani areas, precision land leveling, and in development of demonstration
centers.
C.4.6 The NGOs would form an integral part of CDSG and play roles at two levels. First, at the
provincial level they would assist in designing of the community organization progran, and in conducting
staff and farmers training. Second, working with local communities, service-oriented NGOs and other
community based organizations (CBOs) they would help in the development of FOs.
C.4.7 The FOs have a central role in project implementation. FOs/FWUAs would establish their offices,
and progressively take over irrigation management from the government agencies. They would distribute
water among users, collect water charges, maintain income and expenditure accounts, and carry out the
routine O&M and repairs of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure below, or both below and above, the
mogha-level (participatory irrigation management or transfer management models). Initially, FOs/FWUAs
would carry out these activities with the support of CDSG staff. After completing the technical assistance
and training phase, ultimately the FOs/FWUAs would carry out their activities with the help of their
supporting staff.
-9-



Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
C.4.8 The PPC would be responsible for overall monitoring of the project. They would meet every six
months and review the overall progress of the project, and discuss major policy issues relating to transfer of
management, social organization program, staffing, restructuring, project finance and other related matters.
C.4.9 The M&E Wing would monitor the physical and financial project progress, analyze data on key
performance indicators on a regular basis and collate quarterly progress reports, for submission to the
PPC, the federal government and its relevant entities, and to IDA by no later than January 31, April 30,
July 31, and October 31 of each year for the preceding three months. The performance indicators would
include project planning, programming and budgeting, consultant and contractor performance, cost
recovery from users, effectiveness of operations, delivery of irrigation water and drainage services,
beneficiary participation, and effectiveness of FOs/FWUAs. Key development objective indicators are
presented in Annex 1. Progress against these would be monitored as an integral part of project
implementation.
C.4. 10 In addition to coordinating the project activities, the M&E Wing would collaborate with the other
agencies (NWFP government/FATADC, autonomous, NGOs, and other donors), as cleared by the PPC, to
carry out an in-depth quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the project's impact. The impact evaluation
studies would focus on: (a) agricultural growth and crop diversification; (b) income and employment, and
secondary effects on regional economy; (c) water use efficiency and on equity of distribution; (d)
sustainability of irrigation and drainage systems; (e) analysis of O&M expenditures and revenue receipts;
and (f) performance of FOs/FWUAs.
C.4. 11 The Bank would supervise the project, on an average, twice a year. Supervision would be
undertaken more frequently (if needed) during the first two years to steer the project through the start-up
stage. A project launch workshop would also be organized during the start-up stage. Relatively, higher
Bank supervision effort would be given to this project, because, unlike conventional irrigation projects, this
project is "software" intensive rather than "hardware" intensive. Community organization and transfer of
irrigation management are central to the project, and are relatively new disciplines being applied to improve
the performance of Pakistan's irrigation projects. Environmental and social development specialists would
be included in at least two annual supervision missions and as an integral part of the mid-term review to
monitor the implementation environmental and social framework approach (Annex 11), with particular
attention to early development of baseline survey instruments, checklists and screening guidelines, capacity
building and training programs, and extension programs.
C.4.12 A midterm review would be carried out before the end of the third year of project implementation
(March 31, 2004), at which time the government would review the implementation of the project with IDA
on the basis of supervision and monitoring program outcomes. The midterm review would: evaluate the
overall progress, assess the need for adjustments in the project design and scope, implementation approach
and methodology, and revisit policy aspects to ensure timely completion of the project's activities in a
manner that the outcome would be satisfactory and consistent with achieving the project development
objective. An implementation completion report (ICR) would be prepared within six months after the
closing date, and would focus on the lessons leamed, project outcomes, and the achievement of
development objective as reflected by the key indicators presented in Annex- 1.
- 10 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
D. 1.1 Over the last decade several approaches been have been tried, without much success, to stop
deterioration of the irrigation system and improve its performance. These approaches include: increased
water charges, efforts to improve administrative controls and enhance O&M budgets, and technical
improvements in carrying out O&M. Despite significant efforts collection of revenues did not increase, the
provincial government was unable to provide sufficient funds for O&M and consequently, there was an
accumulation of deferred maintenance. This resulted in decreased systems efficiency and heightened
inequities in the distribution of irrigation water. These approaches addressed only the problem's symptoms,
but not the root cause--a pervasive public sector involvement without meaningful participation of the users
in managing and financing the operation of the system.
D. 1.2 The proposed approach is based on a thorough analysis of the sectoral issues jointly carried out by
the Bank and the GOP, the Bank's water resources management policy, and lessons learned from
implementation of several projects and pilots in all of Pakistan's provinces, and in other countries.
Beneficiary participation is central to all project activities. Before carrying out any civil works,
FOs/FWUAs would be formed to participate in operation and management of the system on a sustainable
basis. The proposed approach of enhancing beneficiary participation in irrigation management is
considered to be the best alternative for achieving these objectives. A flexible approach is proposed to suit
the local needs in forming FOslFWUAs, their structure, size, organization and to incorporate lessons
learned as the transfer of management proceeds.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
l _______________________________    I________________________    (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improving efficiency of water use and  On-Farm Water Management        S              S
capital cost recovery               Projects, I, II, III, and
Conmmand Water Management
Rehabilitation of irrigation systems and Irrigation System Rehabilitation  S          S
improvements in its O&M             Projects I and II
Rationalization of public expenditures  Second SCARP Transition        S              S
on O&M and community participation  Project and Punjab Private
in irrigation management            Sector Groundwater
Development Project
Irrigation improvements, community   Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia           S              S
participation, FOs pilot and research   (South) Project
System improvements, institutional    Left Bank Outfall Drain Project  S              S
changes, cost recovery, and community
development
- 11 -



Community participation,          Balochistan Community Minor       S              S
improvements in irrigation facilities and Irrigation Project
O&M
Institutional reforms, control of  National Drainage Program        S             S
waterlogging and salinity, improved
water management
Decentralization of management at the  Proposed Punjab Irrigation
canal command level, improved water  Systems Improvement --
management                        Rating not available as the
project is in pipeline.
Other development agencies
Improving efficiency of irrigation  ADB and OECF supported
systems                            On-Farn Water Management
projects
IPJDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
D.3. 1 The project was designed by taking into account the important lessons learned from the Bank's
involvement in Pakistan's irrigation and drainage sector, particularly, from the two pilot FWUAs on the
participatory irrigation management organized at the Pabbi and Surizai minors in the NWFP, and in other
countries such as Argentina, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, the Philippines, and Turkey. Key
lessons incorporated into the project's design are:
(a) Beneficiary participation is central to the project; and a social organization and support program is
designed to develop sustainable FOs/FWUAs that can participate effectively in managing the
irrigation system. In the case of the Pabbi/Surizai pilot, farmers initially perceived that managing
irrigation was beyond their capacity, however, with reorganization they accepted that they could
undertake the task. Unlike in the past, the FOs/FWUAs would be responsible for crucial functions
in irrigation management, that is, distribution of water and collection of water charges. To carry
out these functions effectively, they would be formed at the distributary/minor level, the point
where water control lies in Pakistan's irrigation system, and would have the authority to levy and
collect water charges. They would cover sufficiently large areas, with an average command area
of about 4,500 ha, and would generate sufficient revenues to support a team of technical staff, run
an office, and to purchase the simple machinery needed to satisfactorily carry out the systems
O&M in a cost effective manner;
(b) A formal agreement would be executed between the irrigation agency and the FOs/FWUAs in
which there would be a clear definition of the roles of both parties, and the procedures for their
participation in the system's management. The Pabbi/Surizai experience also reveals that it is
essential for the minors to be transferred to FWUAs, the roles of farmers and govemment agencies
are clear, and there is agreement on working arrangements;
(c) FOs[FWUAs should function for a considerable period of time (while it took three years to federate
the WUAs at the minor level in Pabbi/Surizai, a key conclusion of the pilot was that the
organization process can be completed in much less time), carrying out the system's O&M. In
order to receive assistance from the project FOs/FWUAs should be willing to participate in
planning, designing, and implementing improvements in the infrastructure and rehabilitation works;
- 12 -



(d) FOs/FWUAs would make substantial (WUAs have demonstrated to pay 20 to 30 percent up-front
cost of materials, in addition to providing labor for the works) contributions towards the capital
cost of infrastructure improvements and construction works, thereby increasing their stakes in the
system and enhancing their ownership of the project; and
(e) In order to optimize the benefits of equitably distributed water, an incisive package for
disseminating full range of water management practices and irrigation agronomy techniques at the
farm level has been included in the project (this was also a key lesson from the Pabbi/Surizai pilot).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
D.4. 1 The borrower is strongly committed to the program and has requested the Bank to process this
project on a priority basis. The project PC-I documents (government's equivalent of a project appraisal
document) for NWFP and FATADC have already been approved by the respective govemments, as part of
a federal umbrella PC-I which was approved by the ECNEC in September 1999. The implementing
agencies have provided support in preparing cost estimates, institutional structure, and implementation
methodology which are reflected in the project's design (details in Annex 2). The institutional reform
program undertaken by the government under the NDP, and commitment to establish AVWBs under the
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project clearly demonstrate the government's commitment to implement
the sector strategy and to restructure the irrigation and drainage sector, which have the main elements of the
transfer of management at the distributary/minor level, and farmers participation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
D.5. 1 Of all the major donors, only IDA has a comprehensive view of sector development, a strategic
focus and the lessons of experience in implementing sector wide projects through out the world. IDA's role
is crucial to achieve the project objectives of reforming the institutional structure and implementing the
elements of irrigation and drainage sector strategy. IDA's role is necessary to redefine the role of the
government in development of the irrigation sector with an emphasis on decentralization and beneficiary
participation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ 16.5 million; ERR = 26.6 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
E.1.1 In Pakistan economic evaluation of similar works has been done more than 20 times over the last
two decades for project appraisal, completion and OED audits, and impact evaluation. The economic rate
of return (ERR) of watercourse improvement projects has been higher than 20 percent (and as high as 35
percent). The ERR of irrigation systems rehabilitation has been around 50 percent. The farmers'
willingness to participate in managing and to make significant up-front contributions for capital cost of the
project works are clear indicators that returns from project investments are significant.
E. 1.2 The ERR of this project is estimated at 27 percent. The ERR is robust and not very sensitive to
variations in the project costs or benefits. It is highly unlikely that unfavorable developments would reduce
the project ERR to less than the opportunity cost of capital, taken at 12 percent.
- 13 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 14.5 million; FRR = 24.3 % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
E.2. 1 The project would make the Provincial Irrigation Agency (PID)/Frontier Irrigation Drainage
Authority (FIDA) more financially sustainable and would have a positive impact on the government
budget. Participation of FOs/FWUAs in O&M at the distributary/minor level would result in a savings in
the government's recurrent budget, and generate more revenue due to improvements in the collection of
water charges.
E.2.2  With approximately 22 percent of the total investment costs funded by farmers and 67 percent by
IDA, the government will be required to finance only about I 1 percent of total project. When the taxes and
duties that are estimated to accrue to the government due to project activities are taken into account ($2.4
million which is about 7 percent of total costs), the net government contribution will amount to about 4
percent of the total project costs. The fiscal impact of the project during implementation, therefore, is not
expected to place undue financial strain on the government.
E.2.3  Cost recovery:
(a) O&M costs. The FOs/FWUAs would be responsible for bearing O&M cost of the system in their
area. Additionally, they would pay water charges to cover the O&M cost of the system in the
control of the irrigation water supply agency, FIDA. Therefore, in the future, the FOs/FWWUAs
would bear the full cost of O&M. These arrangements would be finalized by executing a
management contract between FOs/FWUAs and FIDA. The contract would be customized to suit
local needs of each FO/FWtA. However, it would clearly indicate a schedule of water rights by
volume for each ten-day period, charges which would be payable for O&M of the upper tier of the
system to FIDA, and other obligations of FOs/FWUAs and FIDA, including procedures for
participatory management and transfer. The FOs would enact its bylaws by defining working
procedures, methods of fund raising for capital works, and O&M of the systems in their command.
(b) Capital costs. The farmers would also share the cost of capital works. The proposed
arrangements are:
(i) watercourse improvements and water storage tanks: the farmers, through WUAs, would
provide up-front the cost of skilled/unskilled labor and 25 percent of the cost of
materials--amounting to about 50 percent recovery of capital costs in real terms. The on-farm
works, such as precision land leveling, would be fully funded by the farmers;
(ii) distributay/minor rehabilitation/improvements: the farmers located in the canal commands of
the pilot AWB would through their FOs, contribute up-front at least 10 percent of the capital.
In other canal commands the farmers would be required to pay through the relevant FWUAs or
FOs, at least 10 percent of the cost of such works, in 10 equal installments, over a period of
five years, along with the water charge (abiana) payments; and
(iii) local/minor irrigation schemes: the farmers through the WUAs, would provide up-front (in the
case of cash) or commit (in the case of labor) 20 percent cost of such works.
- 14 -



3. Technical:
E.3. l The proposed rehabilitation and improvement works are technically sound; the technology used is
well tested and suitable for local conditions. Sirnilar works have been carried out in the country under
several IDA assisted projects. Efforts on further improvement, innovation, and reducing costs would
continue during project implementation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
E.4. 1.1 The main effort under the project is to develop FOs/FWUAs capable of participating and/or taking
over the irrigation management at the distributary/minor level. To achieve this objective a comprehensive
social mobilization, technical support, and training program is part of the project implementation. The
duration and effort to form FOs/FWUAs and their capacity would vary over the project area. Ultimately
the FOs/FWUAs would have an ongoing working relationship with the supply agency (FIDA/AWB), that
would be determined under the transfer/participatory management agreement. During the transition period,
the FOs/FWUAs would be supported by the CDSG under the overall direction of OFWM directorate. This
directorate has been involved in formation of FOs/FWUAs at the distributary level, and WUAs at the
watercourse level and have significant experience in working with the fanmers. A training program to
strengthen the capacity of CDSG, the executing agencies and FOs/FWUAs in social organization and
technical as well as extension support is part of the project. The OFWM Directorate has significant
experience in the proposed watercourse and on-farm works, while PID/FIDA has expertise in the operation
and rehabilitation of the canals systemns.
4.2 Project management:
E.4.2. 1 As explained in Section C(4), the PPC would provide policy guidance and facilitate interagency
coordination. The project management would consist of the director, OFWM, with members from
Irrigation and Water Management. An internal/external monitoring program would monitor the progress of
implementation, and the achievement of the development objectives. The project management and
coordination arrangements are satisfactory for proper implementation. The project management will be
capable of detecting major issues during implementation, and of steering the project to achieve the
development objective.
4.3 Procurement issues:
E.4.3.1 Procurement of works, goods and services would be carried out in accordance with the IDA/Bank
procedures (summarized in Annex-6). Standard procurement documents would be used for all
procurements. Progress in procurement of services, goods, and civil works would be given in progress
reports every six months.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting. Financial Reporting sand Auditing Arrangements (See Annex 5A for details)
E.4.4. 1 Since the departmental accounting staff do not have the required skills to meet the project's unique
financial management requirements, a team of professional accountants recruited by the NWFP as project
accounting specialists (PAS) would advise, guide, and support the departmental accountants to carry out
the accounting and financial management reporting of the project. The PAS would train and assist the
departmental staff to: (a) maintain a computerized project accounting system capable of generating
financial and procurement reports as required by IDA; (b) ensure that proper intemal controls are in place;
- 15 -



(c) facilitate government and external audits; and (d) prepare periodic project financial management
reports. A computerized project accounting and management information system (PAMIS) would be used
to maintain project accounts, track the physical progress of each component, update procurement
information, and review the status of major project activities. A financial manual (FM) documenting the
project financial management procedures would be formally adopted by the project implementing agencies
to ensure transparency, uniformity, clarity, and accountability. The FM covers: (a) flow of funds; (b)
financial and accounting policies; (c) accounting system and internal control mechanisms including
information flow, and flow of documents; (d) chart of accounts; (e) financial reporting, including formats
of project monitoring reports; (f) auditing arrangements; (g) budgeting; (h) organization and staffing for
financial management functions; and (i) terms of reference of accounting consultants and external auditors.
The FM would be updated periodically and improved based on implementation experience. The project
provides funding for recruiting financial management consultants, purchasing computers and software, and
for recruiting external auditors.
E.4.4.2 The selection of project accounting specialists, and nomination of counterpart government staff,
would be completed before board presentation. It was agreed that: (a) the financial manual would be
prepared and adopted by October 31, 2001; (b) the initial orientation and training of PAS and government
counterpart staff would be completed by August 31, 2001; and (c) a computerized financial management
system would be made fully operational not later than June 30, 2002.
E.4.4.3 Project financial statements would be audited annually by external auditors in accordance with
auditing standards acceptable to IDA. The financial statements would be submitted to auditors within three
months of the end of the each fiscal year (September 30), and the audit report and audited project accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months (December 31) of the end of the fiscal year.
E.4.4.4 Disbursements: Disbursements would initially be made on the traditional system (reimbursements
with full documentation and against statements of expenditure and direct payments) and would be
converted to the new procedure [i.e., based on project management reports (PMRs)] after the financial
system is operating satisfactorily. The target date for this conversion is September 30, 2002.
Disbursements are projected over a period of five years. Annex-6 provides allocation of credit proceeds.
To facilitate disbursements, two special accounts (one each for NWFP and FATADC) would be opened
with the National Bank of Pakistan. The initial deposit into the special accounts would be $0.5 million
NWFP, and $0.25 million for FATADC. The special accounts under the project would be operated jointly
by two signatories.
5. Environmental:                  Enviroumental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
E.5. .1 The project would have an overall positive impact on the enviromnent. As part of the preparation
of a national OFWM project (OFWM-IV), which was designed to include institutional reform and
rehabilitation/investment activities in all four provinces, a general review of potential environmental and
social issues was conducted. This review also benefited from a detailed sector envirownental assessment
(SEA) of drainage issues in Pakistan's IBIS which recommended that: (a) additional irrigation water, if
available, should not be supplied to areas where this could exacerbate the need for drainage; (b)
undertaking major drainage schemes should be done in conjunction with improvement of irrigation
management at main and secondary levels and reduction of water losses at watercourse and field levels; and
(c) the government should give special attention to beneficiary participation. These studies were
supplemented by a rapid appraisal mission and consultation with key stakeholders, in order to identify
- 16-



issues specific to the proposed NWFP-OFWM project and to propose a framework for mitigating potential
negative impacts and enhancing positive ones.
E.5. 1.2 Given the nature of the issues identified, and the fact that the project involves mainly beneficial
rehabilitation work and construction of minor irrigation schemes with low and easily manageable
environmental impacts, the project was categorized as "B" under Bank/IDA Operational Policy OP 4.01. It
was also agreed that as part the targeting/demand-driven approach proposed as the main vehicle for
identifying priority areas of intervention, environmental, and social issues would form an integral part of
the overall framework for identifying, preparing, and monitoring subprojects (FIPMSP).
E.5. 1.3 The rapid screening and scoping exercise which was conducted (in December 2000) in consultation
with key stakeholders revealed no major issues which could not be mitigated durng project implementation.
The main project related environmental issues include: (a) health risks from silt removal and disposal, and
contamination of water storage tanks, (b) water quality impairment, from agricultural runoff, desilting, and
potential increase in agrochemical use, and its potential impact on drinking water supply; (c) drainage
impact of improved and new irrigation schemes, including water storage tanks; (d) impact on groundwater
availability from potential changes to the water balance (e.g., reduced seepage); (e) construction related
impacts of rehabilitation works and new irrigation schemes; (f) impacts caused by intensification of
agrochemical use; (g) potential impacts on natural habitats; (h) availability of information and
enviromnental and social spatial knowledge base; and (i) implementation capacity to adequately address
social and environmental issues.
E.5. 1.4 The overall result is that localized impacts of construction/rehabilitation works would not pose
major risks, and will be cared for by contractors as part of good engineering practice, and adequate
monitoring and quality control. These types of impacts are related to activities such as desilting, channel
lining, rehabilitation of gates and diversion structures, wall strengthening/ rebuilding, installation of water
measuring structures and gages, watercourse realignment, improved culverts and outlets, animal wallows
and laundry sites, construction of small water storage tanks, precision land leveling, rehabilitation of
embankments, formation of berms, protection of structures, provision of gates at the cross regulators,
minor irrigation schemes (involving water harvesting, and partial perennial flow diversion), and office
buildings for FOs/FWUAs. Drainage and salinity do not appear to be a major problem except in Salinity
Control And Reclamation Project (SCARP) areas which are outside of the project scope. Water tanks are
completely concrete-lined and are planned for barani areas where the water table is generally very deep;
they are typically used to capture and store water for irrigation, and not for human consumption.
E.5 .1.5 A number of issues of more strategic importance and indirectly related to project activities, were
identified: (a) despite major initiatives during the last 10 years there is weak institutional capacity and
weak enforcement of environmental regulations, (b) wastewater discharge into the irrigation/canal system
and the resulting potential health impacts (people use irrigation water for various purposes including
drinking); (c) groundwater monitoring (there is a need to consolidate and update information on the status
of groundwater resources, as some reports indicate potential mining and quality problems in some areas);
(d) agrochemical use and pest management--despite relatively low levels of use; (e) natural habitats,
because of very little awareness of this issue by the government and farmers; and (f) need for an adequate
spatial knowledge-base and analytical capacity for effective environmental and social mainstreaming into
an integrated water resources management framework. The project would help to build awareness and
capacity over time within govemnment agencies and FOs to deal with these.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 17-



E.5.2. 1 An environmental management plan (EMP) was not prepared because site specific interventions
have not been identified. These would be selected based on a screening process which would include
eligibility criteria related to poverty focus, readiness of FOs and FWUAs to assume distributary
management responsibilities, and hydrological factors. Such a process will be fornalized in the overall
FIPMSP which would specifically cover environmental and social issues, and will be developed in more
detail based on overall framework outlined in Annex 11 by the PCC with technical support from the project
implementation consultants. An outline of the key step of the FIPMSP is included in Annex 11.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: There was no stand-alone EA Report
for the project (see explanation below):
Explanation: (a) IDA and GONWFP, based on a rapid screening and scoping exercise with key
stakeholders, agreed to a categorization of the project as "B" under OP 4.01 with a simple environmental
analysis as part of the project preparation and no separate EA. However, the Environmental Data Sheet
(EDS) was submitted to Infoshop and updated on 2/16/2001; (b) as stated in the EDS, there is no
stand-alone EA Report. The sub-project screening framework (FIPMSP), as detailed in Annex 11, covers
management of social and environmental issues as an integral part of the project design and
implementation.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
E.5.4. 1. During the rapid appraisal of environmental issues that substituted for the environmental
assessment (EA), field visits to the proposed project areas, and consultations were held with farmers,
WUAs, government functionaries, and scientists working in the area of irrigation management were
consulted.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
E.5.5. 1 The implementation of mitigation measures and recommendations of distributary environmental
and social assessments would be monitored as part of the overall arrangements for the project. The
objective of developing FIPMSP (Annex 11) earlier on is to ensure that a road map
is in place before project activities are initiated; this road map would have clear and measurable screening
criteria, a transparent process and procedures, adequate technical and management capacity and financial
resources, as well as a timetable and a monitoring system. The M&E expertise is available within the
NWFP's M&E Wing and an action plan has been agreed with GONWFP to strengthen the Wing if certain
shortfalls are identified.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
E.6. 1.1 The main project related social issues include: (a) equity and benefits in terms of timely and
adequate delivery of irrigation water to poor farmers and tenants including those at the tail end of the
watercourse system; (b) inclusion of poor farmers in the WUAs/FOs; (c) govemance and transparency of
FOs regarding the formation and registration process (formally ensured by the new autonomous FIDA,
financial management and decision making, as well as modes of representation and conflict resolution
(which will continue to be based on traditional jirgas); (d gender issues, because due to cultural constraints
- 18 -



women are not included as irrigators and do not have a direct role in the irrigation system; and (e) the social
mobilization capacity of government agencies and local NGOs/CBOs and their role in project
implementation. The project will deal will all these issues as part of the process of forming and
empowering FOs/FWUAs. Women and landless tenants will benefit indirectly from improved irrigation
efficiency (e.g., increased household income, access to safer drinking water) and directly though targeted
training and capacity building activities.
E.6. 1.2 Sites and specific interventions have not been identified. These would be selected based on a
screening process which would include eligibility criteria related to poverty focus, readiness of FOs and
FWUAs to assume distributary management responsibilities, and hydrological factors. It was agreed that a
such a process will be formalized in an overall FIPMSP, which would specifically cover environmental and
social issues (see Annex 11). This framework will be developed by the PCC with technical support from
the PICs, and will be cleared by the PPC and IDA before selection and implementation of subprojects. An
outline of the key step of this screening framework is described below.
E.6. 1.3 Initial screening and area targeting: The identification of priority implementation (geographic)
areas where subprojects will be selected based on need, poverty, and willingness to participate should be
done throu  a mapping and spatial analysis based on criteria such as: (a) areas where most of the land
under cultivation is rain fed, but with a potential for expansion or rehabilitation of irrigation coverage; (b)
low concentration of land ownership, with most land held by owner operators; (c) other specific poverty
criteria; (d) areas with the highest need for system rehabilitation improvement and quality of service; and
(e) hydraulic/hydrologic/climatic factors (e.g., state of canal and drainage network, water availability,
hydrologic independence).
E.6. 1.4 Dissemination of information and demand promotion: The project description and the requirements
for participation (e.g., cost sharing, responsibility for O&M, water charge collection, equitable water
management, legal status, and governance requirements) should be disseminated in the areas identified
through the initial screening and area targeting.
E.6.1 .5 Screening and identification of subproiects: Based on applications received from groups of
potential beneficiaries, subprojects would be screened and selected for implementation. This screening will
be conducted by the PCC with the help of the PIC based on eligibility criteria such as: (a) need for
rehabilitation or development of in4gation infrastructure; (1) hydrologic eonViderationg (e.g., hydrologically
independent areas); (c) readiness of applicants to form FOs and FWUAs to assume distributary
management responsibilities demonstrated by an application; (d) poverty (e.g., measured through income
poverty, low levels of land concentration, or other criteria to be defined); and (e) presence of environmental
and social impacts that cannot be mitigated. Thus, there will be no involuntary land acquisition, only cases
of verifiable voluntary land acquisition would be eligible for support under the project.
E.6. 1.6 Baseline surveys and information system (distributary profile): Detailed baseline data will only be
collected for subprojects selected for implementation (plus a number of representative control group areas
without project intetventiong). The data will be organized into a computerizcd information system
(including georeferencing in a GIS) and will be used as the baseline for measuring project performance and
achievement of outcomes. (The type of data collected for the baseline, and subsequently during monitoring,
should therefore lend itself output and outcome monitoring).
E.6. 1.7 Mobilization, capacity building, and planning involving FOs/FWUAs: Using the baseline survey
data and the DESA and building on the initial interaction with farmers, before implementation a detailed
mobilizing and organizing plan for FOs/FWUAs will be developed and reviewed by the PPC and IDA.
- 19-



This plan will include a timetable, and key milestones (initial meetings, agreements, election of
representatives, legal notification, office setup, signature of contract transferring/sharing management
responsibilities from FIDA/AWB, transfer of management of the irrigation system). In addition, the plan
will include details of a training program for management, O&M, and environmental and social issues.
E.6. 1.8 Women play a significant role in the rural economy; and their workload is expected to increase
with the increases in irrigation and cropping. However, women are not considered irrigators because of
legal, social and cultural constraints. To make their participation a reality and enable them to benefit, the
project envisages to evolve gender specific interventions during project implementation. Subsequent to
conducting a needs assessment, interventions will be formulated (see Annex 11).
E.6. 1.9 The ongoing institutional reform of the irrigation sector is expected to have significant impact on
the implementation strategy of this project. The project's social development outcome is social inclusion
and empowerment through mobilization of FOs resulting in equitable distribution of water.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups
E.6.2.l Within the areas identified on the basis of the screening process described (para E.6.1.3), selection
of subprojects will be demand-responsive (pura E6.1.5). The primary beneficiaries are the franers linked
with subprojects that are selected on the basis of need, poverty, and willingness to participate. Following
formation of WUAs/FOs, the farmers will prepare and agree on an investment plan with technical support
from the PIC. The beneficiaries will contribute towards the capital costs (section E.2. 1), be involved in the
supervision of works, and the WUAs/FOs will assume fill
responsibility for O&M. Based on monitoring information, FIDA will provide follow-up support to those
WUAs/FOs that experience problems with either govemance or irrigation system management.
B. Other Key Stakeholders
E. 6.2.2 The rigaion Dvpuntnt and On.farn Water Management Aeneies (PIDA and OWIM), local
government institutions (subsequent to devolution of power to district governments) and NGOs or CBOs
would be the other stakeholders. The project design has built-in flexibility to accommodate all
stakeholders. The project would be implemented in coordination with other major donors involved in the
sector, such as FAO and ADB.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
E.6.3.1 During project preparation, scoping sessions and consultations were held with several NGOs and
&il society organizations in a1l provinces (prepratimn of OFWM-IV project), and later on in NWFP. The
project is designed based on years of consultations and experience gained from working with farmers and
their organizations under several on-farm water management, irrigation systems rehabilitation, SCARP
transition and drainage projects. The project also benefits from several pilot projects initiated in the
country to promote FOs at the distributary/minor level. The project envisages NGOs being involved in an
advisory capacity on gender issues, social mobilization, and if required, to address other social issues.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
E.6.4.1 The lead implementing agency is the OFWM Department supported by the PIC that will be
responsible for the social mobilization and technical assistance programs, such as: a core team, a number
- 20 -



of baseline survey teams, social organization team, technical support team, and NGOs. The PIC will
provide all the necessary assistance to form FOs/ FWUAs, engineering support, and technical assistance.
Based on the approach described in Section E.6. 1 and E.6.2, the FOs/FWUAs would be established to
gradually take over the management of watercourses, minors, and distributary canal systems. The
WUAs/FOs will receive training on management and O&M. Subsequent to the capacity development of
the FOs, their performance will be measured by indicators and successful rating of these indicators would
be a prerequisite for irrigation management transfer. In addition, technical assistance [see Section C(a) and
(e)] would also be provided to the implementing agencies to ensure that beneficiary participation remains at
the center stage.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
E.6.5. 1 Monitoring will be designed to provide for a continuous learning and adjustment of project
approach and subproject plans, and will involve (a) participatory monitoring based on self-defined
indicators (by focus groups of beneficiaries, and FOs/FWUAs), (b) monitoring data on inputs, outputs and
impacts/outcomes by the M&E Wing, and (c) IDA supervision. The implementation of mitigation
measures and recommendations of distributory environmental and social assessments (DESAs) would be
monitored as part of the overall arrangements for monitoring project performance for use in
decision-support. Early in project implementation, before the selection and implementation of subprojects
is started, a monitoring framework that includes institutional arrangements and indicators will be submitted
to the IDA for clearance (see Annex 1 1 regarding monitoring indicators).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
E.7.2. 1 Because of weak capacity within the government to develop an environmental and social screening
framework independently, the PIC contract for social mobilization, technical support, and baseline surveys
would also cover the preparation of the framework and training needs assessment. Funds have been
provided for the required expertise, as well as for the fees for the provincial EPA to monitor water quality.
The PIC would be required to develop the FIPMSP, consistent with the framework described in Annex 1 1,
as part of their inception report.
E.7.2.2 The project will not involve involuntary land acquisition, and only cases of verifiable voluntary
land acquisition or provision of government land would be eligible for support under the project. Regarding
both voluntary land donations by project beneficiaries and provision of government land, the project will
ensure that the land in question is free of squatters, and other claims or encumbrances. In the case of
- 21 -



community land donations, the land will: (a) be identified by the beneficiary community and not by the line
agency or project authority (although the project should ensure that the land is appropriate for the intended
purpose); (b) the voluntary nature of the donation will be verified from each person donating land; and (c)
in case of loss of income or displacement, verification will be obtained from those affected that community
devised mitigation measures are acceptable. The title to voluntary land donations will be vested with the
WUAs/FOs; and a grievance redress mechanism will be established.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
F. 1.1 The project is inherently designed to ensure the sustainability of the irrigation system by developing
effective FOs/FWUAs that will be given the responsibility for the O&M; and redefining the
over-centralized role of government in the irrigation system--which would pave the way for greater user
participation. Enhanced cost sharing/recovery measures would increase beneficiary ownership of the
project facilities which, in turn, would reinforce the sustainability of the irrigation facilities.
F. 1.2 Based on the lessons learned from past operations, this project provides for effective and
sustainable FOs/FWUAs capable of sharing the management responsibility at the secondary tier of the
irrigation system. Contrary to the WUAs formed under previous OFWM projects, these FOs/FWUAs
would have a key role in irrigation management at this tier, where WUAs had no role before. The
FOs/FWUAs be supported by technical staff, and would participate in day-to-day operation of the system,
distribute water to its members, collect revenues. It is expected that the technical staff will be recruited by
the FO/FWUA after the technical support phase of the project is complete--two-years on an average. With
this essential role assigned to the FOs/FWUAs, they are unlikely to become inactive. Furthermore,
evidence from the field suggests that such organizations are sustainable in the long-term.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
It may take longer to form effective        M         A well designed community mobilization and
FOs/FWUAs and transfer of irrigation                  support program with support from local NGOs
management may be slower than                         will be implemented by the government but duly
expected.                                             assisted by expertise it lacks from outside the
government. The program would provide
training and technical assistance to farmers as it
aims at building institutional capacity within the
FOs. Despite these mitigation measures, a
modest risk remains of the reform process
slowing down at the higher government/political
level which may have under currents to the
irrigation management transfer at the
distributary-level.
- 22 -



Powerful rural elite may dominate the       M         In this phase of the project, activities would
FOs/FWUAs and use these to expand                     concentrate in areas with relatively
their influence.                                      homogeneous land holdings and where number
of extremely large farms in not very high.
Moreover, the selection criteria based on initial
screening would include those distributaries in
the project where chances of forming a
successful FO/FWUA are highest and areas
which are poorer. To further mitigate this risk,
an independent monitoring program would be in
place to assess the effectiveness of FOs/FWUAs
and make changes, as may be required, to the
implementation of the farmers participation
plan. At the institutional level, FIDA rules
would provide for these farmer bodies to be
democratic.
Given that a sound social mobilization      N         Physical improvements in the water distribution
program mitigates the risks mentioned                 systems in the past have consistently shown
above, better management would leads to              increased availability of water as indicated by
increased water supply (key output                    higher cropping intensity, better yields, and
indicator) when it acts in synergy with               popularity of OFWM programs with the end
outputs from other components relating to             users. Greater contribution from such users in
physical improvements.                                meeting the capital and operating costs mitigates
any risk that physical improvements may not
take place.
It is assumed that: (a) improved physical   N         Time and scale studies on watercourses
facilities would lead to reduction in water           improved earlier (10 years or more) indicate
losses; and (b) timely and equitable                  more than 50 percent reduction in water losses
distribution of water would lead to                   due to conveyance, and farmers' participation
efficient use of water only in an enabling            mitigates the risk that such water savings would
environment which promotes economic                   not be sustained. Furthermore, a strong
growth.                                              technical support program, demonstration
centers and orientation of public policies to
market friendly approaches would ensure that an
enabling environment is there to drive optimum
benefits of improved distribution of water.
Improved water supply would lead to         N         As stated above, farmers access to knowledge
increased productivity and farmers'                   and technology is ensured through a technical
income, assuming that the input/output                support program and demonstration centers, in
markets perform better, and farmers'                  addition to agricultural support services of the
access to knowledge and technology is not             public, non-government and private sectors.
constrained.
- 23 -



From Components to Outputs
Component 1: Community Development         N        An effective social mobilization phase, designed
and Support Program.                                on the basis of pilots implemented earlier, would
Farmers are not ready to form                       mitigate the risk of farmers being skeptical and
Organizations (FOs/FWIUAs).                         not ready. Assistance in project implementation
in the form of baseline survey teams, social
organization teams and technical support teams
to build FO capacity would be arranged upfront
before implementation starts.
Component 2: Distributary-level            M        (a) The willingness of farmers to participate in
Improvement Program                                 or take over the management of irrigation
(a) Farmers may not be willing to                   systems has been tested under several projects
participate in the management of the                 on pilot basis. Through component 1, FOs
system at the distributary-level, or do not         would acquire capacity to discharge
take interest in planning and                       management functions and handle issues related
implementation of project works. They               to O&M (of distributary govemance, equity,
may be unwilling to make cash                       financial management, environmental awareness
contributions.                                      and mitigation.
(b) While scaling up the number of farmer           b) To mitigate this risk, only six FOs with full
organizations from two pilots to 22, there          management transfer would be raised in those
is an inherent risk that institutional              canal commands which have institutional
reforms in the irrigation sector do not             infrastructure in place under the ongoing reform
move forward as anticipated. Therefore,             process. In the case of 16 distributaries,
farmers may lose interest in taking over            FWUAs would be raised which would assume
the management of distributaries.                   joint management responsibility (farmers and
(c) While there are no major                        Irrigation Authority) until such time lessons
environmental and socially adverse                  from the FO management transfer model are
impacts, awareness level of the                     incorporated into the joint management model.
beneficiaries will have to be raised in              FWUAs may then graduate to FOs.
order to take mitigation measures, if               (c) DESA would be carried out for every
needed, to ensure sustainable use of and            FO/FWUA. DESA includes a management plan
equitable access to all groups of natural           and implementation arrangements for specific
resources.                                          mitigation measures.
- 24 -



Component 3: Watercourse and On-Farm       N        The negligible risk of slowing down the on-farm
Improvement Program                                 irrigation improvement works are minimized by
There are no physical, social, financial,           incorporating social mobilization and support
and environmental risks for this                    programs, and by prioritizing works in those
component because the OFWM program                  areas which have homogeneous land holdings
has withstood about two decades time, is            and where possibilities of forming successful
highly popular among the farmers, has               FOs/FWUAs are highest. Moreover, in the case
high level of commitment form the                   of participatory irrigation management model,
government, and financial contribution              the lead time for starting on-farm works would
from the beneficiaries have been                    reduce from 12 to 18 months, to less than half.
increasing. There is a small risk that              Such a model accounts for over 60 percent of
vested interests may try to slow down the           the on-farm works.
management transfer at the
distributary/minor level, which may slow
down on-farms works which have been
linked to forming "effective FOs".
Component 4: Improvements in Branch        N        FIDA has adequate in-house expertise to
Canals (Systems Supplying Water to                  prepare feasible canal rehabilitation programs.
FOs/FWUAs). Technical and economic                  Technical assistance has been provided to
viability of the proposed improvements              ensure transparent construction supervision.
should be certain.                                  Furthermore, FIDA would consult the
established FOs/FWUAs, for the first time,
regarding rehabilitation of branch canals leading
to their command areas.
Component 5: Local/Minor Irrigation        N        (i) Since this component will have full support
Schemes Development Program                         of the community development and support
(a) All stakeholders may not participate            group, mitigation measures applicable to this
equitably/effectively in all stages of              component, as suggested for components I and
scheme development.                                 2 will also be in play in this case.
(b) Most minor irrigation schemes are in            (ii) Innovative approaches to community
poorer areas. Water discharges to be                participation would be adopted. As experience
hamessed are relatively small as                    suggest from another IDA-assisted minor
compared to canal command areas. There              irrigation project in Balochistan, farmers switch
is some degree of risk that farmers'                to higher value crops to augment their income
repayment capacity may not prove to be              and to pay for an equitable share in the capital
adequate.                                           cost and O&M of works. Initially conmmunity
based savings and mobilization of human
resources to carry out smaller contracts provide
for the required cost sharing arrangement.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
- 25 -



G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) NWFP shall ensure that its PPC shall be established, not later than September 30, 2001, and
thereafter maintained throughout the project implementation period, with terms of reference,
composition, staffing and other resources satisfactory to IDA.
(b) NWFP and FATADC shall, not later than December 31, 2001, obtain PPC's approval of an overall
framework, satisfactory to IDA, for the selection of schemes including criteria as specified in
Schedule 2 (2) of the Project Agreement.
(c) NWFP and FATADC shall, not later than March 31 in each year, furnish to IDA, for its review
and concurrence, a draft annual plan of project activities, including a work program and proposed
budget, for the next following fiscal year, as approved by the PPC.
(d) NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that: (i) construction works under the project will be carried
out in accordance with design criteria and specifications satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) that, in
particular, the distributary/minor canals included in the project will be rehabilitated to achieve
sufficient capacity to deliver their full discharge entitlement determined on the basis of their share
of the diversions at the head of the main canal command system over the previous 10 years.
(e) NWFP and/or FATADC shall ensure that as a condition for obtaining assistance for renovation of
a watercourse or for improvement of a distributary/minor canal under the project:
(i) in a canal commanded area within the pilot AWB areas, the farmers of such area will have: (i)
formed an FO at the distributary/minor canal level; (ii) acting through such FO reached
agreement with FIDA for the O&M of the facilities on which the particular project works are
to be carried out; (iii) established that such FO has functioned well and operated and
maintained such facilities effectively for a minimum period of one-year thereafter; (iv)
established that such FO has the technical capacity to participate in the carrying out of the
particular project works; and (v) acting through such FO reached agreement with FIDA to
carry out the particular project works and to share the costs thereof in accordance with the
agreed provisions.
(ii) in a canal conimanded area outside the pilot AWB areas, the farmers of such area will have: (i)
formed an FWUA at the distributary/minor level with the functions, powers and obligations
specified for FWUAs; (ii) acting through such FWUA reached agreement with FIDA or
FATADC, as the case may be, for O&M of the facilities on which the particular project works
are to be carried out; and (iii) acting through such FWUA reached agreement with FIDA or
FATADC, as the case may be, for the carrying out of the particular project works and for
sharing the costs thereof in accordance with the agreed provisions; and
(iii) an environmental and social assessment has been made for a distributary/minor canals.
(f) NWFP and/or FATADC shall ensure that as a condition to obtain assistance for
construction of a water storage tank and associated works under the project, or to carry
out a local/minor irrigation scheme under the project in any other area where an
environmental and social assessment has been made, the farmers of such area will have:
(i) formed a fully functioning WUA at the level of the particular project works; (ii)
- 26 -



established that such WUA has the technical capacity to participate in the carrying out of
the particular project works; and (iii) acting through such WUA reached agreement with
OFWM Directorate or FATADC, as the case may be, to share the costs of the particular
project works in accordance with agreed provisions, and to carry out the particular project
works and the O&M of the facilities on which the particular project works are to be
carried out.
(g) NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that regarding works for: (i) renovation of
watercourses and construction of water storage tanks and associated watercourses carried
out under the project, the farmers concerned will be required to contribute up-front,
through their WUA, all of the skilled and unskilled labor together with at least 25 percent
equivalent in value of the materials required for such works in NWFP and FATA; (ii) PLL
carried out under the project, the farmers concerned will be required to meet 100 percent of
the cost of such works; (iii) works carried out under the project for
rehabilitation/improvement of distributary/minor canals located within pilot AWB areas,
the farmers concerned will be required to meet up-front, through their FO, at least 10
percent of the cost of such works; (iv) carried out under the project for
rehabilitation/improvement of distributary/minor canals located outside the pilot AWB
areas, the farmers concerned will be required to pay, through their FWUA, at least 10
percent of the cost of such works in 10 equal installments payable semiannually over
five-year period, along with the water charge (abiana) payments; (v) carrying out
local/minor irrigation schemes under the project, the farmers concerned will be required to
meet up-front, through their WUA, at least 20 percent of the cost of such works; and (vi)
priority is to be given to watercourses, water storage tanks, distributary/minor canals, and
local/minor irrigation schemes located in the poorer regions with greater number of small
land holdings.
(h) NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that representatives of any FO/FWUA participating in
the carrying out of any project works, and in the O&M of the facilities on which such
works are to be carried out, will be invited to participate in the procedures for inviting and
evaluating bids, and awarding contracts for the procurement of civil works and materials
for such project works.
(i) NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that: (a) procurement documentation and record
keeping systems, all satisfactory to IDA, will be developed and adopted by the OFWM
Directorates and FATADC, not later than December 31, 2001; and (b) key procurement
staff of the OFWM Directorate and FATADC will be identified, trained in IDA's
procurement procedures, and designated as focal points for procurement for the duration of
the project, all not later than December 31, 2001.
(j) NWFP and FATADC shall conduct surveys every six months, to determine the prevailing
market prices of construction materials used in the improvement of watercourses and
construction of water storage tanks and associated watercourses under the project.
(k) NWFP and FATADC shall: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
IDA, the implementation of the project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (ii)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and furnish to IDA, by January 31,
2004, reports integrating the results of the M&E activities on the progress achieved in the
implementation of the project during the period preceding the date of said reports and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient implementation of the project
- 27 -



and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii) review with IDA, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as IDA shall request, the
reports and take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said reports and the IDA's views on the matter.
Covenants Related to Financial Management Requirements
(1) NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that, satisfactory to IDA, a financial manual will be
developed and adopted by October 31, 2001, and a computerized project accounting and
management information system will be made fully operational by June 30, 2002 by the
OFWM Directorate and FATADC.
(m) NWFP and FATADC shall carry out a time bound action plan, acceptable to IDA, to
strengthen the financial management system not later than September 30, 2002, or such
late date as IDA shall agree, to prepare quarterly PMRs, acceptable to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
a 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ra;hed r    ayy                     XtidwanAi                            ivJ. Wall
T*am   ader                         Sector Manager                       ountry Manager
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objctives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Faster economy wide growth  Percent increase in GDP and  Annual Reports of the State   The Government might not
and poverty reduction.    reduction in share of      Bank of Pakistan, and GOP's  sustain and broaden the
population living in absolute  Economic Survey. Household reform initiatives underway.
poverty.                  Income and Expenditure
Surveys.
Establish a more competitive  Liberalization of output and   Official reports, Bank's ESW. The critical assumption is that
environment for agricultural  input markets.                                    the government will
growth and diversification.                                                     accelerate the structural
Orient research and extension Monitor agricultural   reforms leading to faster
to farmers' needs and improve production of major crops  growth than in 1995-96. The
financial intermediation for  (annual updates from   risk is that given the strength
agricultural producers, and    Agricultural Statistics of  of vested interests opposing
small farmers.            Pakistan), note trends of crop  such reforms, the
diversification, and changes   government's commitment
in access to rural credit by    may falter.
small farmers.
Redefine governmenfs role   Number of farmers'       Official reports, Bank's ESW, The critical assumption is that
and establish self sustaining   organizations (FOs)/  Pubic Sector Expenditure    the government would deepen
efficient irrigation and   Federation of Water Users'   Reviews, through project's   the reforms agreed under the
drainage systems by        Associations (FWUAs)      M&E system, and from the   Irrigation and Drainage
decentralizing irrigation  formed which are capable of  supervision reports of various  Sector Strategy and initiated
management and enhancing   participating in irrigation  projects such as Punjab  under several IDA assisted
farmers participation through  management effectively and   Private Sector Groundwater   projects such as, Third
farmers organizations.     number of distributaries  Development, Fordwah       On-Farm Water Management,
transferred.              Eastern Sadiqia (South), and  Fordwah, Punjab Private
National Drainage Program.  Sector Groundwater
Increase in water supply at the                      Development, and most
farm level.                                          importantly under the
National Drainage Program.
Increase in agricultural
production.                                          The risks are the same as
above. However, farmers'
willingness to participate in
irrigation management has
been demonstrated under
several projects and pilots.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To reduce rural poverty   (a) Increase in agricultural    Project monitoring and impact Reforns and investments
through increased          productivity through      evaluation reports.        supported by the project
agricultural production    enhanced cropping intensities                        would facilitate an enabling
leading to increased farm   and crop yields in the target                       environment for agricultural
incomes.                   project area; and                                    growth and development.
(b) Reduction in rural poverty
This objective would be   through an increase of 5-10%
achieved by:               in farm incomes.
- 29 -



(i) improving the reliability, Development of effective  Project implementation   The reforms would enable
efficiency and equity of   FOs/FWUAs which are         progress reports, public   small farmers to access inputs
irrigation water distribution; capable of participating in    sector expenditure reviews,   (especially water and
managing the irrigation    Bank's ESW and supervision  drainage) and services.
system.                    reports.
(ii) increasing on-farm    The system would be run in   As mentioned above.       Farmers will make more
water use efficiency; and    an efficient and sustainable                         productive investments to
manner.                                                fully exploit the increased
water availability.
(iii) enlhancing long term  Same as stated above.      As mentioned above.        Government efforts remain
financial sustainability of                                                        consistent and are not diluted
the irrigation system by                                                          due to political changes and
supporting the government's                                                       macro-economic adjustments.
effort to foster self
sustaining farmer's
organizations.
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component I (C-i1.         About 5-10 percent increase   Project monitoring reports,   There are two main risk
Improved irrigation        in water supply will result    and impact evaluation studies. elements: (a) It may take
management (22 FOs/FWUAs from improved management                                 longer to form sustainable
commanding about 0.2       alone beginning third year of                           FOslFWUAs and their
million ha.) resulting from:   the project.                                        effective participation in the
(a) equitable participation                                                       management of the system
from all stakeholders; (b)                                                         may be slower than expected;
empowerment of grassroots                                                         and (b) powerful rural elite
level FOs; and (c) efficiency                                                     may dominate the FOs or
gains made possible better                                                        FWUAs and use these to
O&M and cost reduction                                                             expand their influence.
measures adopted by FOs.
Given that a sound social
mobilization program
mitigates the risks mentioned
above, better management
leads to increased water
supply (key output indicator)
when it acts in synergy with
outputs from other
components relating to
physical improvements (C-2
to C-5).
C-2 through 5. Efficient   (a) Improvements in equity,   Project monitoring reports,   (a) Improved physical
irrigation system resulting  and timeliness in water   and impact evaluation studies. facilities would lead to
from improvements in       distribution before the end of                         reduction in water losses.
physical facilities, such as:   the project (start in third
(C-2) distributary/minor canal year, but would continue to be
improvement and construction effected after the project).
of FO/FWJUA Offices in 22
cases;
- 30 -



(C-3) improvement of 1380   (b) Improved water supply                           (b) Timely and equitable
watercourses, construction of  over a longer period of time                     distribution of water would
350 water storage tanks, and  for maturing crops.                               lead to efficient use of water
other on-farm improvements;                                                     only in an enabling
(C-4) rehabilitation of 20                                                      environment which promotes
branch and distributary canals                                                  economic growth.
supplying water to
FOs/FWUAs; and
(C-5) development of 31
minor irrigation schemes.
Increased productivity and    Increased yields (about 8  Project monitoring reports,   Improved water supply would
farm income (C-6, as a     percent), cropping intensity   provincial and federal  lead to increased productivity
dependent variable of C-1    (10 percent), and cropping    statistical reports and  and farmers' income,
through 5) in the target area.  pattern (shift towards high    bulletins.       assuming that the
value crops orchard and                              input/output markets perform
vegetables).                                         better, and farmers' access to
knowledge and technology is
not constrained.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
(i) Community Development  US$2.86 million. Baseline   Project supervision and  The assumption is that
and Support Program    survey, social organization,   monitoring reports.    farmers are ready to form
and technical support teams                          FOs/FWUAs to participate in:
will organize and service                            (a) the management of the
about 22 FOs/FWUAs.                                  system at the distributary
level; and (b) planning and
implementation of project
works.
(ii) Distributary Level   US$4.66 million. About 6    Annual provincial O&M     Farmers' willingness to
Improvement Program        distributaries are improved in budgets for the irrigation  participate in or take over the
the second project year, 8 by  systems and revenue receipts. management of irrigation
third and 8 by the fourth                            systems has been tested under
project year. FOs'/FWUAs'  Project supervision and   several projects on pilot basis.
contributions to O&M, and   monitoring reports.      They are willing to make cash
capital costs of improvement                         contributions also. A key
works.                                               assumption in scaling up
number of FOs/FWUAs is
that institutional reforms in
the irrigation sector move
forward as anticipated lest
farmers' willingness should
wane away.
- 31 -



(iii) Watercourse and     US$9.66 million. About 100  Project supervision and  In addition to the assumption
On-Farm Improvement       watercourses improved in  monitoring reports.       identified above, one risk is
Program                   second year, 360 by third, 570                      that vested interests may try to
by fourth and 350 by fifth                          slow down the management
project year. FOs'/FWUAs'                           transfer. Moreover, the
contributions to O&M, and                           powerful rural elite may try to
capital costs of improvement                        use these FOs/FWUAs to
works.                                              expand their influence. These
risks are minimized by
incorporating social
mobilization and support
programs, and by prioritizing
works in those areas which
have homogeneous land
holdings and where
possibilities of forming
successful FOslFWUAs are
highest.
(iv) Improvements in Branch US$1.82 million. About 20   Project monitoring and  Technical and economic
Canals and Systems        branch/distributary canals    supervision reports.  viability of the proposed
Supplying Water to       rehabilitated                                        improvements should be
FOs/FWUAs.                                                                    certain. It is assumed that
provision of case by case
scrutiny by experts would
ensure viability.
(v) Local/Minor Irrigation   US$12.44 million. Following Project monitoring and  Development of minor
Schemes Development       rigorous inputs from      supervision reports.      irrigation systems is well
Program                   social/technical teams (C-1)                        tested under several projects.
and design development and                          Since it has been
planning phases in the first                        demonstrated that these
two years, about 11 schemes                         schemes improve water
are constructed in third                            supply, equity and timeliness
project year, 12 by fourth and                     to the local communities, a
8 by fifth project year.                            key assumption is that all
stakeholders participate
equitably/effectively in all
stages of scheme
development.
(vi) Project Management    US$0.61 million. Support for Project monitoring,   Arrangements for social
Support (Supervision,     project implementation and   supervision, and audit reports. mobilization and technical
Monitoring, Evaluation, and  management to achieve its    Reports of third party  support, monitoring and
Training)                targets, quality assurance,    supervision.          evaluation, and financial
financial controls, and staff                       management systems are
training.                                           concluded before project
implementation commences.
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.86 million
Community Development and Support Program
2.01   One of the basic requirements for achieving the project development objective is to ensure effective
community participation in all phases of the development process. For enhancing participation of farmers
in system management two models would be followed: (a) a transfer of management model (TMM) under
which irrigation management would be fully transferred to FOs after completing a period ofjoint
management. A transfer of management contract would be executed between the government agency and
FO defining the terms of transfer and roles of all parties concerned. About six FOs covering an area of
about 26,000 ha would be formed under this model; and (b) a participatory irrigation management model
(PIMM) where FWUAs (where WUAs are organized at the watercourse level) would be formed at the
distributary/minor canal level for participation in the management of the irrigation system. About 16
FWUAs covering an area of about 90,000 ha. would be formed under this model. These FOs/FWUAs
would be involved in the irrigation management, and in planning, designing, and implementing irrigation
improvement works proposed to be constructed under the project. Functions, powers and responsibilities of
FWUAs would be in accordance with provisions of Annex 2.1. An essential activity is to set up, train and
technically support FOs/FWUAs, so that they can effectively participate in management and operation of
the irrigation system on sustainable basis. In order to help achieve institutional sustainability which is
essential to sustainable resource management and livelihoods, a few altemative institutional models be
evaluated during the project implementation. For instance, different forms of TMM and PIMM would be
tried paying particular attention to the specific issue of water pricing in order to account for both scarcity
and reliability of service. For this purpose, the PCC would seek guidelines from and approval of the of the
PPC, after having collected baseline data from at least half of the proposed FOs/FWUAs, as to the number
and locations of alternate models to be evaluated.
2.02   The FO's structure would vary to cater to the local needs. However, in general FOs would be
organized as three-level organizations. First level would be the WUAs at the watercourse level. The
WUAs would then form a WUA group at the distributary/minor canal level or at one of its sections. The
WUA groups would then form an FO covering the whole or part of the distributary/minor. Similarly,
FWUA would be two or three tiered organizations depending upon the size of the distributary/minor, where
the watercourse level WUAs or their groups would be federated at the distributary/minor canal level.
There are about 250 distributaries, minors or sub-minors in the canal irrigation system of NWFP which
consist of about 10 major canals and several other miscellaneous canals. The command area of these
channels vary significantly ranging from 200 ha to 100,000 ha. However, about 70 percent of the channels
command less than 5,000 ha. It is estimated that about 22 distributary/minor level FOs/FWUAs would be
formed under the project.
2.03   Minimum area covered by an FO/FWUA would be 2,000 ha, with and average size of 4,500 ha
except that of the two distributaries of the Bara canal system of Khyber Agency in FATA. The Bara canal
commands about 18,200 ha which will be covered by the two FATA based FOs. In the case of smaller
distributaries/minors, several would be combined to form an FO/FWUA with the minimum required area.
If so, a group of WUAs (WUA groups) would be formed at each channel and these groups would be
- 33 -



represented at the FO/FWUA level. In the case of larger distributaries, a group would be formed at each
minor or sub-minor or at a section of the distributary which would then participate in the FO/FWUA.
Different likely structures of FOs/FWUA are shown schematically in Figures 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3. The size of
WUA group would vary throughout the project area. When formed at the section of a large distributary,
the size is likely to be determined by the availability of water control structures at the head and the tail
reach of the section. However, in such cases WUA group is likely to consist of about 20 watercourses.
The number of watercourses in a WUA group for the local minor irrigation schemes would be far lesser,
probably not exceeding 10 in most cases.
2.04   FOs/FWUAs and FIDA/AWB would sign contracts defining roles and responsibilities of both
parties. These contracts would cover essential aspects of irrigation management such as:
(a) Operation of the system. Water rights of the distributary/minor, where applicable, would be
determined based on the actual historic flows at the head of the canal system during the
post-Tarbela period. These flows are the basis for acquiring provincial water shares from the
Indus System River Authority (IRSA) and the 10-daily water allocations for each canal system are
part of the Water Apportionment Accord of 1991 (Clause 14) signed by all provinces. The water
right would be determined as the share of the distributary in the flow at the canal head. The
operation of the distributary would be based on these flows and actual discharge received at the
head of the canal system. Given these factors and water requirements, the operation of the
distributary would be planned jointly by FIDA/AWB and FO/FWUA. Operation within the
distributary would be done by the FOs in case of TMM, and jointly with the FIDA/AWB in case of
PIMM;
(b) Collection of water charges. In case of TMM, FO and FIDA/AWB would agree to the total
amount of water charge to be paid by FO. The water charge would be linked with the volume of
water delivered at the head of the distributary/minor system or FO area. FO would deposit the
water charge before the start of the season. The FO may levy addition water fees on its members
for meeting the cost of maintenance, rehabilitation of the system or other water and non-water
related investments. In case of PIMM, FWUA and FIDA/AWB would jointly carry out the
assessment and collection of the water charges;
(c) System maintenance. Under TMM, FOs would be responsible for maintenance of the channels,
and structures. Under PIMM, maintenance would be done jointly by FWUA and FIDA/AWB.
The annual maintenance plans, budget allocations and bid documents would be prepared in
advance and shared by both parties. As present, farmers would continue to maintain the
watercourses; and
(d) Rehabilitation/improvements works. The project rehabilitation/improvements works would be
implemented jointly by FOs/FWUAs and FIDA/AWB at the distributary level and OFWM
directorates and WUAs at the watercourse level. FOs/FWUAs would be involved in planning,
designing, contracting, and in implementation of these works.
2.05   For developing effective FOs/FWUAs, the project would support a social mobilization and support
program. The Directorate of On-Farm Water Management of NWFP and FATADC in their respective
areas would have overall responsibility for social mobilization, working through a community development
and support group (CDSG) recruited as consultancy services. The CDSG would consist of a core team at
the provincial level for training, managing and coordinating the community participation program, and
baseline survey teams (BSTs), social organization teams (SOTs) and technical support teams (TSTs)
- 34 -



working in the field offices with the help of local NGOs and village level activists. In order to recruit social
organization staff who would reside in project areas and maintain relationship with the farmers, they would
be recruited from local-level NGOs.
2.06   The CDSG would establish its headquarters offices at Peshawar (see Charts 2.1 to 2.4). Two Area
Offices would be established in NWFP and one in FATADC from where social mobilization/organization
activities would be launched. Area Coordinators of Provincial Water Management Directorate/FATADC
would coordinate all CDSG activities in the area offices. The team leader of CDSG would be in charge of
the headquarters office and responsible for overall FO program. Each area office would have a number of
BSTs, SOTs and TSTs depending upon the territorial coverage and intensity of activities at a given stage.
Composition of each type of team is given in Table 3 for an average size distributary/minor. The number
of staff in each team would depend on the size of the distributary and the complexity of the system on
which a particular tearn would be working at a given time. The approximate number of CDSG field teams
is summarized in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Number of Community Development and Support Teams by Subproject
NWFP            FATA             Total
Indus Basin and outside irrigation system
Baseline survey teams                            2                1               3
Social organization teams                        6                1              7
Technical assistance teams                       20               2              22
Number of FOs/FWUAs formed
Transfer of management model                     6               0               6
Participatory irrigation management             14               2               16
model
Local/minor irrigation schemes
Baseline survey teams                            1                1               2
Social organization teams                        1                1              2
Technical assistance teams                       1                1               2
Number of schemes                                20               6              26
2.07   The community mobilization efforts would be carried out in three successive waves. First, a
baseline survey of the area would be carried out by BSTs with support from SOTs. This information
would cover physical features, agricultural aspects, condition of the irrigation and drainage system, surface
and groundwater supplies, and socioeconomic factors. BST would develop a computerized database
containing this information and a (digitized) area map containing main features such as irrigation channels,
drains, roads, location of villages, schools, markets, other civic centers etc. Based on this information,
SOTs would prepare a suitable
- 35 -



plan and initiate dialogue with the farmers for developing a suitable organization. The SOTs would make
an initial visit followed by several return visits. It is estimated that each SOT would develop one
FO/FWUA on an average of six months.
2.08   After farmers of a distributary agree to form an FO/FWUA, the structure and membership of the
WUA group [FO/FWUA] are determined and farmers'representatives elected, a TST would be assigned to
the FO/FWUA to provide technical assistance in its operations. The TST would be fielded by consultants
to support activities of each FO/FWUA for a period of 12 to 24 months. Sequencing of different social
mobilization, support, and irnprovement activities is given in Figure 2.4 in schematic form.
2.09   During the first year, the TST would:
(a) develop a register of water users;
(b) working with the Hydrology unit (of headquarters office) and FIDA/AWB, determine a schedule of
water rights for the FOs/FWUAs, and based on these rights, define (and develop a register) water
rights of each WUA group within the FO/FWUA, each WUA and finally each member;
(c) develop a water distribution procedure in the FO/FWUA area;
(d) determine the hydraulic condition of the system within the command of FOIFWUA with the help of
survey team and develop an operation and maintenance (O&M) program, and determine the O&M
cost of each unit within the FO/FWUA as well as each member's share;
(e) work with the supply agency (FIDA or AWB) and determine the contribution required for the
O&M of system from the FO level to the barrage, as well as, above the barrage;
(f) develop the procedure for cost recovery, operation of bank accounts, and an accounting system for
the FO/FWUA;
(g) screen the environmental and social issues applicable to the command area and population of the
FO/FWUA in accordance with the check-list (Annex 11), and prepare a social and environmental
management plan;
(h) develop plans for distributary as well as watercourse improvements;
(i) develop a contract between the FO/FWUA and the supply agency in defining the rights and
obligations of both parties in the management of the system; and
(j) construct and establish an office for the operation of the FO/FWUA.
2.10   The transfer of management, in the case of TMM, would take place in two stages. In the first
phase, the irrigation system would be jointly managed by the FO and the supply agency for a period of six
months. During this time, the FO and the supply agency would jointly verify the infiastructure, understand
the operation of hydraulic structures including gates, gauges, etc., flow capacities at different points and
prepare a water account and a social and environmental management plan. After completing the joint
management period, the management of the system would be transferred to the FO in accordance with the
conditions stipulated in the contract between FO and the supply agency.
2.11   During the second year, the TST as well as the FO would concentrate on the preparation of
improvementlrehabilitation plan of the system in the control of FO. The FO may retain the TST staff or
recruit new staff after fully taking over the management of the system. If FO decides to recruit new staff,
the TST would provide assistance in recruitment and preparing employment contracts.
2.12  Initially, the FOs/FWUAs would be formed in areas with independent hydrologic unit (which are
easier to manage) and relatively homogeneous social conditions. As a result, areas on large distributaries
may be left to the supply agency to manage according to the present conditions. After the FOs/FWUAs
begin to work for a while and gain experience/confidence in managing the system, a consolidation and
- 36 -



expansion phase would begin under which the FOs/FWUAs would merge to create larger FOs/FWUAs and
expand to include the remaining minors or sections of the distributary. The consolidation and expansion
phase is expected to start after project completion, but would require support from the government.
2.13   Under the community development program, the project would provide support for BSTs, SOTs
and TSTs in the field offices. Besides covering the core objective of FO/FWUA formation, the CSDG will
provide agricultural support services directly and through fostering linkages with the public, private and
nongovernment entities which focus on sustainable promoting sustainable agriculture production systems.
The core teams at the headquarters offices would consist of a team leader supported by a deputy team
leader, a social mobilization specialist, a training specialist, hydrologist/irrigation engineer, environmental
specialist, agricultural economist, data and monitoring specialist, technical staff, and support staff. Strong
back-up support would be provided for the field teams through a training program (one month) and expert
advice from the core team. The training specialist would help to develop training and promotional material,
an appropriate bookkeeping system, and an implementation handbook. The project would also support two
weeks training of FOs/FWUAs and their representatives.
2.14   A gender subcomponent for about $0.1 m as part of the community development program aims at
evolving appropriate program interventions during implementation as soon as needs assessment of a given
community group is carried out. Areas of particular focus for women include: involving women in
decision making while framing the design of scheme in terms of location of washing points; awareness
raising for issues related to water use and hygiene, storage of pesticide/insecticide, etc. The PICs would
include modalities and timetables for addressing gender issues and meeting women groups training needs in
their inception report.
Project Component 2 - US$4.66 million
Distributary Level Improvement Program
2.15   After the FOs/FWUAs are established, the project would provide support for operation of their
offices. The size of the office building would vary, however, typically it would have a meeting hall, two
offices, a lobby area, a machine shed and a storage shed (godown). The land for the office building would
normally be provided by the FO/FWUA, or if an existing building of provincial Irrigation Department is
found suitable for FO's/FWUA office, it would be acquired and renovated within the estimated cost for an
FO/FWUA office. The FO/FWUA would also contribute to the construction of the office building.
2.16   In addition to establishing offices, the project would provide assistance to improve the canal system
in the FOs/FWUAs area. This would include repair of distributary gates, rehabilitation of diversion
structures, desilting and improving of critical sections of the canal (including lining) and other adjustments
to enable delivery of rightful discharge, water measuring structures and gauges, additional water control
structures, and guide sections for the desilting of the canals. These works would not cover complete
remodeling of distributaries and should cost below Rs 1,000 per ha. The works would be identified and
proposed by FOs/FWUAs with the support of TSTs. In pilot AWB canal command areas, to be eligible
for project assistance, an FO should have taken over the operation of the system and should have money
available in its Bank account for its share of improvement costs. In other canal commands the FWUAs
should have been formed and the distributary/minor canal level and capable of participating the irrigation
management and implementation of project works. Depending upon their effectiveness, FOs/FWUAs
would also be eligible for a package of machinery/equipment essential for the maintenance of the irrigation
and drainage system. The FOs would provide 10 percent of the cost of distributary/minor improvements
up-front, while FWUAs would pay 10 percent of cost of such works in 10 installments over a period of 5
- 37 -



year along with their water charge (Abiana). The province and FATADC would ensure that: (a)
construction works under the project will be carried out in accordance with design criteria and
specifications satisfactory to IDA; and (b) in particular, the distributary/minor canals included in the
project will be rehabilitated to achieve sufficient capacity to deliver their full discharge determined on the
basis of the diversions at the head of the main canal system over the previous ten years.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.66 million
Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program
2.17   Watercourses generally command an average area between 75 to 200 ha and serve about 25 to 75
farmers. In NWFP, the average command area of a watercourse is around 50 ha. The communal
watercourse (sarkari khal) represent about 20 percent of the watercourse length with the remaining 80
percent being farm branches and field ditches. The losses in watercourses are higher compared to the rest
of the conveyance system.
2.18   There are about 135,000 watercourses in Pakistan out of which about 44,000 watercourses are
already improved under the previous OFWMPs. NWFP and FATA have a little more than 20,000
watercourses, of which about 6,250 watercourses have been improved. The project would have provision
for improving more than 1,380 watercourses, of which 730 will be in canal commnanded and 625 inbarani
areas. Preliminary allocation is given in Table 2. The project would prioritize investments by initially
focusing on areas that are relatively poor and have been neglected in the past (for instance, those districts
where less than 30 percent of watercourses, which is an overall average for NWFP, were improved before
this project, where landholdings are smaller and poor are concentrated more would receive priority),
beginning at the tail-end of the irrigation system in the case of canal command areas in a proportionate
manner.
2.19   The communal watercourse which conveys a large portion of the irrigation water would be
realigned and rebuilt with clean compacted soil to improve conveyance of the canal or tubewell water.
Precast outlets (pucca naccas) would be installed to reduce channel deterioration and water loss, and
improve water control. The critical sections of communal watercourse prone to speedy deterioration would
be lined with bricks, stone masonry, three-piece precast concrete slabs, or precast parabolic section. The
lining would be generally rectangular. Parabolic or trapezoidal sections may be used where found suitable.
It would consist of double-brick masonry wall (23 cm) and a brick masonry bed (7 cm), plastered inside
and on top of the wall. Stone masonry or three-piece precast slabs, costing about the same, could be a
substitute where good quality bricks are difficult to find. Bricks procured shall be of good quality (free of
flaws, cracks and powdery crust of salts), well fired, and meet the following minimum standard: (a)
standard size (23 cm x 11 cm x 7 cm) with square comers and parallel sides; (b) absorb nor more than 6
percent of their weight after one hour soaking in water; and (c) withstand a crushing force of 250 kgs/cm2.
All masonry mortar shall have a cement sand mixture of 1:4 (one part cement to four parts of sand).
Concrete for lining and structure shall have a mixture of 1:2:4 (1 part cement, two parts sand and four
parts aggregate). The lining material would be selected to suit the local conditions. Normally, head
reaches of watercourses having maximum flows and hydraulic head would be lined. However, other
reaches having excessive water losses because of elevation, soil conditions, chronic sedimentation
problems, and high traffic areas around villages and along the roads would also be eligible for pucca lining.
The lining would not exceed 15 percent of the total length of communal watercourse in canal command
areas and 20 percent in barani areas. However, greater flexibility would be allowed to FOs in selecting the
sections for lining. Culverts would be installed at major crossings, and a limited number of check/drop
structures, animal wallows/buffalo baths and laundry sites would be provided as required.
- 38 -



2.20   In pilot AWB canal commanded areas, the watercourse improvements would be undertaken after
the FOs have successfully operated the system for at least one year. In other canal commands such works
could be started after WUAs are formed at the watercourse level, and FWUAs are formed at the
distributary/minor canal level who can participate in planning and implementation of project works at the
distnbutary/ninor level. For watercourse improvement farmers would provide unskilled and skilled labor
costs and contribute at least 25 percent of the material costs up-front. This would result in about 50
percent of cost contribution by the farmers in real terms.
2.21   Water storage tanks. About 350 water storage tanks would be constructed in barani areas to
conserve water by increasing volumetric flows through intermittent and timely releases. Since the yield
from many barani water sources is small and variable, high conveyance losses are encountered with direct
application of low discharges. The tanks would be designed to store about 8 to 12 hours of inflow from the
water source--the storage not exceeding the water requirements. Generally the storage capacity of tank
would be about 6,400 cubic feet (representing a size of length and width of 40 feet and depth of 4 feet)
serving 5 to 10 farms. As in the case of watercourses, farmers would provide skilled and unsldlled labor
and 25 percent of the material cost up-front.
Table 2: Preliminary Allocation of Project Works
Activity by category of project works           NWFP       FATA       Total
Watercourse renovations
Canal command: fresh groundwater areas                         600        25        625
Canal command: saline groundwater areas                         *          *
Barani areas                                                   730        25        755
Total (*targets for saline groundwater areas not specified; will be  1,330  50      1,380
substituted with fresh groundwater areas)
Water storage tanks                                            350         -        350
On-farm package
Land leveling (ha)                                            3,034       500       3534
Demonstration centers                                          48          12        60
Distributary level improvements in FO/FWUA areas
transfer of management model                                 6           -         6
participatory irrigation management model                    14          2         16
Total                                                          20          2         22
Branch canals/distributary-level improvements above FO/FWUA
area                                                           20          -         20
Local/minor irrigation schemes                                 25          6         31
- 39 -



2.22   Precision land leveling. About 3,534 ha of irrigated land (3,034 in NWFP and 500 in FATA)
would be precision land leveled in the canal command and barani area. The technical specification for land
leveling would be the same as in previous programs, i.e.,  60 mm in basins and a maximum of 0.4 percent
slope on lands to be furrow irrigated. The provincial OFWM Directorate and FATADC would provide
technical assistance to farmers for surveying, plan preparation and design, layout and inspection. An
engineering plan, field and irrigation ditch layout will be made for each parcel of land or farm to receive
precision land leveling. As practiced presently, the cost of precision land leveling would be paid by the
farmers.
2.23   Demonstration centers. One demonstration center would be provided for every 10 to 12
renovated watercourses mainly in the canal command areas to demonstrate sustainable soil and water
management practices. These centers, up to 2 ha in size, are to be located near a village and should be
easily accessible. The site would be selected in consultation with FOs/FWUAs. They will operate for two
years after which they would be transferred to FOs/FWUAs to continue these activities in the post-project
period. The centers will demonstrate a full range of water management practices and irrigation agronomy
techniques. The project would provide technical assistance for the planning and design of water
management improvements, including materials and precision land leveling. Field days would be held at
these demonstration centers during each crop season. The extension personnel assigned to these centers
would receive specific training from the core team on sustainable agricultural practices. Furthermore,
consideration should be given to using female extension personnel of government, NGOs, and the project
consultant teams, as applicable to a given FO/FWUA, to insure that women also benefit from the
demonstration centers.
Project Component 4 - US$1.82 million
Improvements in Branch/Distributary Canal Systems Above FOs/FWUAs
2.24   Due to over use and inadequate O&M, canals have deteriorated over time and are carrying
discharge beyond the limits of safe operation. Many canals are operating with inadequate freeboard,
eroded berms, inspection roads with inadequate widths, deteriorated outside embankments, severely reduced
capacity due to sedimentation, with many hydraulic structures in need of repair.
2.25  In order to improve water distribution, control and safe operation of the canal, and to ensure that
the supply agency could provide the agreed amount of water to the FOs/FWUAs, the project would provide
for rehabilitation/improvements in the canals leading to the FO/FWUA areas. This would include works at
the branch canals, larger distributaries, cross regulators, falls, rehabilitation of embankments, formation of
berms, protection of structures, provision of gates at the cross regulators, and motorization of regulator
gates where needed. These works would be carried out by the supply agency along the lines of Irrigation
System Rehabilitation Project, with technical assistance from the consultants. The cost of such works
would be below Rs. 500 per ha of command area. Schemes above this cost parameter would be
rehabilitated/improved only if technical viability is assured and economic analysis done by the
implementing agencies and verified by supervisory consultants, and show an economic rate of return of
greater than 15 percent. IDA would be consulted on all such schemes prior to starting the construction.
-40 -



Project Component 5 - US$12.4 million
Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Development Program
2.26  It is estimated that more than 2 million ha of land is located outside the Indus canal commanded
area of the country, scattered in relatively small parcels with water coming from open wells, tubewells, lift
pumps, karezes, springs and small diversions. In the NWFP/FATA, such barani areas constitute more
than 60 percent of arable land. Water sources for perennial irrigation in such areas are limited. Some
extension in partial irrigation is feasible by using flood flows and water harvesting. There are several small
(100 to 1,000 ha) perennial surface irrigation schemes. These often consist of a mixture of community and
government built structures which usually are inefficient in capturing and transmitting irrigation supplies.
Major losses occur in the main delivery channel from the source to the service area, and water intake
structures operate poorly. Some structures have reached the end of useful life and some are inadequately
built using low cost technology.
2.27   In addition to perennial irrigation, flood plain irrigation ("sailaba" irrigation) has been practiced
for years by farmers in the barani areas of NWFP and FATA. Farmers construct temporary "katcha"
diversion structures and off-taking channels to divert flood flows from the catchment area or small "
nullahs/rod-kohis" (intermittent, nonperennial streams) to adjacent lands. However, the systems need
proper designs. During periods of low runoffs, the "head enders" take all of the diverted flows. During
flash floods, the "katcha" diversion structures wash out and no one receives irrigation water. Hence, the
systems are not dependable and also inequitable. Simple rehabilitation of these systems will improve their
performance which in turn would have beneficial impact on the livelihood of farmers in these remote areas.
2.28   Under the ISRP-II, OFWM-III, and lately under the Balochistan Community Irzigation and
Agricultural Project, low cost methods of sailaba irrigation, and diverting water for beneficial use have
been explored. As shown in Table 1 above, the project would support about 25 localized/minor schemes in
NWFP, and 6 in FATA. In all cases, WUAs or FWUAs would be formed before planning and designing
these schemes. The WUAs/FWUAs would be responsible for construction of on-farm works, and would
share 20 percent cost of the distribution system. The BCIAP model would be followed in community
participation and construction.
Project Component 6- US$0.61 million
Project Management Support Component(Project Supervision, M&E, and Training)
2.29   Supervision support. As described under the implementation arrangements, the province would
be responsible for bulk of activities in social mobilization and construction of civil works. The M&E Wing
would be responsible for over all project coordination, appointment of supervisory engineers who would
work closely with the relevant agencies of NWFP/FATA, monitoring and evaluation, project launch
workshops, mid-term review; assistance in financial management and auditing, supervision support to
GOP, technical assistance/training and preparation of future project.
2.30   Monitoring and evaluation. Physical and financial monitoring of the project progress would be
the responsibility of the provincial implementation agencies. Data on key project indicators would be
collected and analyzed regularly to assess progress, exercise control and identify possible problems. The
key indicators would include project planning, programming and budgeting, performance of the consultants
and contractors, cost recovery from users, effectiveness of operations, mitigation measures and
- 41 -



recommendation of canal/distributary environmental and social assessments (C/DESAs), delivery of water
and drainage services, water-logging and salinity, beneficiary participation and activities of the
FOs/FWUAs.
2.31   Project impact evaluation. The project would also include a program for the overall monitoring
of all sub-national OFWM programs and evaluation of the project impact. The M&E Wing would be
strengthened by outside experts, where needed, to carry out project impact studies. The project impact
evaluation studies would focus on: (a) agricultural growth and crop diversification; (b) impact on income
and employment, and secondary effects on regional economy; (c) impact on groundwater aquifers and
water quality; (d) impact on water use and equity in distribution; and (e) performance of FOs/FWUAs.
Baseline surveys would be completed within one year of the start of the project. During project
implementation, baseline data would be compared to on-going data collected in terms of the development
indicators. The progress made towards achieving the project objective would be constantly monitored and
periodically evaluated.
2.32   Technical assistance and training. Technical assistance (TA) and training are an integral part of
the project. Each component includes the required TA and training. In addition, the project would provide
for national and international study tours, TA and training in beneficiary participation, community
development and strengthening, project planning and management, fnancial accounting and auditing, and
modem construction and contract administration techniques. The project would, therefore, provide for
technical assistance in the following areas:
(a) community development/social organization and supporting technical services including those for
social and environmental assessment;
(b) project management support;
(c) engineering services for surveys, design, and construction supervision of civil works, including the
role of the engineer in contract management;
(d) financial accounting, auditing, reporting and development of a management information system;
(e) support for project supervision and mid-term review;
(f) impact evaluation studies; and
(g) services for detailed supervision of the project on behalf of the government.
2.33   The consulting services would be recruited in a single package, to be supplemented by individual
consultants to strengthen the M&E Wing, to: (a) provide project implementation support to NWFP/FATA
including community development support, design and supervision of all civil works (distributary/minor
and watercourse improvements, canal improvements, local/minor irrigation schemes); (b) supervise
on-farm water management works, monitoring, and impact evaluation; and (c) provide financial
management support to the provincial implementing units. The consultants' recruitment would be finalized
before Board presentation. Extemal auditors will be recruited for conducting annual audits of the entire
project accounts, initially for a period of one year which would be further extended until a satisfactory
arrangement with the Auditors General of Pakistan is made. Action plan to recruit auditors was agreed
during negotiations.
- 42 -



Table 3: Composition of Baseline Surveys,
Social Mobilization, and Technical Support Teams
Number           Contract Type
Baseline Survey Team (BST)
Engineer                                            1               Consultants
AgriculturistlAgri. Economist                               1               Seconded
Surveyors/Patwaris*                                         2               Consultants
Total:                                              4
Social Org-anization Team (SOT)
Social Coordinator                                  1               Consultants
Social Organizers *                                 2               Consultants
Institutional Specialist                                    1               Seconded
Total:                                              4
Technical Support Team (TST)
Technical Coordinator (Engineer)                    1               Consultants
Water Management Specialist                                 1               Seconded
Agriculturist                                               1               Seconded
Accounting System Specialist                                1               Consultants
Patwari/Tapedar                                     1               Consultants
Total:                                              5
* For an average size distributary/minor level FO. The number may be higher or lower for larger or smaller disbtributaries/minors.
-43 -



Annex 2.1
Powers and Functions
of
Federations of Water Users Associations (FWUAs)
2.1.1  FWUAs shall actively participate, along with the Provincial Irrigation Department (PID)/NWFP
Irrigation and Drainage Authority (FIDA) or FATADC, in the improvement, O&M of distributaries/minor
canals located within their jurisdictions, and to that end, shall be:
(a) authorized, inter alia, to:
(i) make recommendations and requests to PID/FIDA and FATADC with regard to such matters
as: i. the distribution of water into a distributary/minor canal on a demand or fixed delivery
basis; and ii. the construction of facilities including bridges, regulators, drop structures, and
new minor canals on a cost-sharing or other basis;
(ii) enter into contracts with PID/FIDA and FATADC for the supply of canal water on a flat rate
basis at the outlet level, or on a volumetric rate basis at the distributary/minor canal level, as
provided in the relevant canal rules, or any other basis acceptable to IDA, instead of the crop
rate basis commonly used for this purpose, and for collecting and paying water charges at the
agreed rate;
(iii) represent their members on issues and problems relating to a distributary/minor canal or more
than one distributary or the whole canal; and
(iv) generally represent their members in various forums, particularly govenmment departments
including PID/FIDA, FATADC and provincial Agriculture Department, and serve as a channel
of communication between such members and such department; and
(b) obligated, inter alia, to:
(i) obtain the approval of their members before committing or undertaking or participating in any
major capital expenditures or improvements;
(ii) obtain the approval of the relevant canal officers before undertaking or participating in any
improvement schemes, and carry out such schemes under the supervision of such officers;
(iii) maintain financial records and minutes of meetings; and
(iv) promulgate bye-laws and rules of operation.
-44 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Munagement
Chart 2.1 Proposed Project Management
NWFP/FATADC
Provincial Policy Committee
Provincial Project Coordination Committee
M&E WinglPE&D                               |   Provincial Project Director
I                  ~~~~~~Director General, OFWM
Monitonnw, Evaluation and
- Monitoring of Project Impact
- Reviewing Perforrnance of Fos
- Construction Supervision              Member
- Quality Control                      Irrigation                              Water Management
Area                                                         Area
Coordinators                                                 Coordinators
Canal                                                       Barani
Commanded                                                       Areas
Proiect Imglementation
Consultants
- Community Development Support
- Irrigation Improvement Facilities
- Branch Canal Improvements
- Technical Assistance and Training
-45 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Chart 2.2 Proposed Organization for Community Development Support Program
N.W.F.P. Province and FATA DC
Core Team
Team Leader
Social Organization Expert (2)
Training Specialist (2)
Hydrologist/liTigation Engineer
Agricultural Economist
Data Monitoring Specialist
CAD/CAM Specialist, and
Technical Staff
Area Coordinator              Minor Community               Area             Area               Area
Pabbi                   Irrigation Devetopment      Coordinator      Coordinator        Coordinator
BST (I)                Bannu         Barani Areas           FATA
SOT (l)
TST (4)
Engineering Support
- Design, Supervision of
Canal Works and Hill
Social Mobilization &                                       Social           Existng              Social              TorLentslMmor
Technical Assistance                                    Mobilization &       OFWM             Mobilization &        Schemes
Field Teams                                           Technical            Staff             Technical           - Construction
Assistance                            Assistance          Management
Field Teams          - Bidding Documents
FATA
BST (l)
SOT(2)                                             BST(1)                                BST(I)
TST (8)                                            SOT (2)                                SOT (l)
l                                     l   ~~~~~~~~             ~~TST (7)    ll    TST (I)     l
Note: Number of members in the social and technical teams will vary during the project depending on the project activities.
BST = Baseline Survey Team, SOT = Social Organization Team, TST = Technical Support Team (See Appendix 2. 1,
Table 2 for composition of each team).
- 46 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Figure 2.1 Schematic Diagram Showing Possible Layout of
Farmer's Organization (FO) or Federation of Water User Association (FWUA)
(About 20 watercourses)
Watercourses
(WUA)
Distributary                                    WUA
Farmer's Organization (FO)/
Federation of Water User
Association (FWUA)
[WUAGI+WUAG2+WUAG3]
On large distributaries, Group of Water User Associations (WUAGs) formed at minor canals or on a section of a distributary would then form
an FO/FWJA.
Note: In pilot Area Water Board (AWB) Canal Cormmand Areas, the Groups of Water user Associations (WUAGs) will
federate to form Farmer Organizations (FOs) and in other areas, they will federate to form Federation of Water User
Associations (FWUAs).
-47 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Figure 2.2 Schematic Diagram Showing Possible Layout of
Farmer's Organization (FO) or Federation of Water User Association (FWUA)
Main
/(WUA)   Water Userert    o WUAt  U s
A       nAssociation (W A
/   WUAG 1W                                          +          2)
Sub-Minor                                                                        _
S    l d      tate User Association  F       Farmer's Organization (FO)/
(WUA) ~       ~         ~         UA
fe t to inor O                                      Federation  of Water User
s                               /sAssociation (FWUA)
8   (WUAG 1+WUAG 2)
Small distributaries merged in an FO/FWUA after
each watercourse level. Watercourses flowing out of the main canal could
distributary level and
WUAG
Note: In pilot Area Water Board (AWB) Canal Conunand Areas, the Groups of Water user Associations (WUJA groups) will
federate to form Farmer Organizations (FOs) and in other areas, they will federate to form Federation of Water User
Associations (FWUAs).
- 48 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Figure 2.3 Proposed Organizational Set up for
Farmer's Organizations (FOs)/Federation of Water User Associations (FWUAs)
| Exocutive Body    l
Farmer's Organization (FOs)/                                                     ._me
Federation of Water User Associations
(FWUAs)                                                     General Body
at Distributary                                        5 Elected Members from each
WUAG
Group of WUAs
General Body
2 Member-s from each
Watercourse
F~~~~
Water User's              Executive Body                                                       2 Representatives
Associations             2 Representatives
(WUAs) at
Watercourse
Levels                  General Body                                                             General Body
All Water Users                                                         All Water Users
Note: In pilot Area Water Board (AWB) Canal Command Areas, the Groups of Water user Associations (WUAGs) will federate to form
Farmer Organizations (FOs) and in other areas, they will federate to form Federation of Water User Associations (FWUAs).
-49 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project
Figure 2.4 Calendar of Activities
FY2002            FY2003             FY2004               FY2005               FY2006
Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2T. I            .Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  QI  Q2  iQ3  |Q4  QI  Q2  Q3  Q4
I Baseline Survey (BSTI)    Bi                                   i.                                                   i
Social Mobilization (SMTI) S    S    S
TechnicalSurvey(TSTI)          T    T    T    T    T    T   ,T    T    T    T    T
Joint Management               J    J                    .     D                                    . D             |
Distributary Improvement                            D   ID    D    D    D
Watercourse Improvement                                  i     W    W    W    W    W    W    W   W
2 Baseline Survey (BSTI)                    B
Social Mobilization (SMTI)                S    S    S       j
Technical Survey (TST2)                        T    T    T    T    T    T    T    T    T    T   IT
Joint Management                                    J .
Distributary Improvement                                            D    D    D    D    D
Watercourse Improvement                                                        W    W    W    W    W   iW      W   iW
3 Baseline Survey (BSTI)                                    B
Social Mobilization (SMTI)                                S    S    S
Technical Survey (TST3)                                        T    T    T    T    T    T    T   IT    T    T
Joint Management                                              i    J
Distributary Improvement                                                            D    D    D          D    D   i
Watercourse Improvement                                                                        W    W   lw    w         w    W   w
4 Baseline Survey (BST1)                                                    B
Social Mobilization (SMTI)                                                S    S    S              i
Technical Survey (TST4)                                  i                     T    T    T    T    T    T    T    T   IT  IT
Joint Management                                                               J    J
Distributary Improvement                                                                            D    D    D   ID    D    D
Watercourse Improvement                                                                                        W    W    W    W
5 Baseline Survey (BSTI)                                                               B
Social Mobilization (SMTI)                                                          S    S    S
Technical Survey (TSTI)                                                                   T    T   IT   iT    T   iT    T   IT
Joint Management                                         i    i
Distributary Improvement                                 i                                                     D   iD    D   ID
Watercourse Improvement                                                                                                     _W
50



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $rmllion    US $million
Community Development and Support Program-NWFP               1.92          0.29          2.21
Distributory Level Improvements Program-NWFP                 3.37          0.27          3.64
Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program-NWFP            7.78          0.29          8.07
Improvement in Branch/Distribution Canals-NWFP               1.45          0.11          1.56
Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Dev. Program-NWFP             8.79          0.55          9.34
Community Development Support Program-FATA                   0.41          0.11          0.52
Distributory Level Improvements Program-FATA                 0.34          0.03          0.37
Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program-FATA            0.33          0.01          0.34
Local/Minor krigation Schemes Dev. Prograrn-FATA             1.09          0.07          1.16
Project Management Support-FCU                               0.51          0.07          0.58
Total Baseline Cost                                         25.99          1.80         27.79
Physical Contingencies                                      1.82          0.12          1.94
Price Contingencies                                         2.19          0.13          2.32
Total Project Costs               30.00          2.05         32.05
Total Financing Required               30.00          2.05          32.05
Local        Foreign        Total
_Prject Cost By Category                 US $miWlion    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                          6.56           0.60          7.16
Works                                                         18.78           1.13         19.91
Services                                                       1.88           0.20          2.08
Training                                                       0.22           0.02          0.24
Admn. & Operations                                             2.56           0.10          2.66
Total Project Costs     30.00           2.05         32.05
Total Financing Required      30.00           2.05         32.05
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.39 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 29.66 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
72% of total project cost net of taxes.
Detailed Cost Tables
Summary Cost/Expenditure ............................... Tables (a), (b), and (c)
Total Cost (including contingencies), NWFP ... ....... Table 1-5
Total Cost (including contingencies), FATA  .......... Table 6-9
Total Cost (including contingencies), Spn/M&E ....... Table 10
- 51 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
Components Proiect Coat Summary
Summary Cost Table (a)
#      # Total
(Re. Million)                    (1U8ii Millon)          Forign    Base
Local     Foreign       Total      Local   Foreln    Total   Exchanas  Costs
A. NWFP
Community Developmenl Support Program                                      111.61      16.61       128.21      1.924    0.286      2.211         13         8
Distibutary Level Impronements Program                                     195.45      15.55      211.00      3.370    0.26B       3.638          7        13
Walercourseeand On-Form Improrements Program                               451.08      17.10      468.18      7.777     0.295      8.072          4        29
Improvement in Branch Canals and Systems Sulpplying Waler to FOs/FWU        83.02       6.46        90.28      1.445    0.111      1.557          7         6
Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes De,elopment Program                         509.56      31.84       541.40     8.786    0.549       9.334          8        34
Subtotal NWFP                                                               1,351.53     87.50     1,439.08    23.302      1.509    24.812          8        89
B. FATADC
Community Development Support Program                                       23.45       6.60        30.06     0.404    0.114       0.510         22         2
DistributaryLevel Improvement Program                                       19.50       1.55        21.10      0.337    0.027      0.364          7         1
Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program                                18.73       0.74        19.48      0.323    0.013      0.336          4         1
Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Development Program                          63.16       3.85        67.00      1.089    0.066      1.155          6         4
Subtotal FATADC                                                              124.80      12.75       137.83      2.153    0.220      2.373          0         9
C. MSE Cell
Project Management Support (Spn., M&E, TA &Training)                        29.83       3.77        33260     i0.14     0.085      0.079         11         2
Subtotal M&E Cell                                                             29.83       3.77        33.60      0.514    60D65      0.579         11         2
Total EASELINE COSTS                                                        1,506.24    104.07      1,610.31    25.970     1.794    27.764           6      100
Physical Contingencies                                                     105.77       6.84       112860      1.824    0.118      1.941          6         7
Price Contingencies                                                        287.74      17.22       304.96     2.189    0.131       2.320          6         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                         1,899.75    128.12      2,027.87    29.983    2.043      32.025          6      115
PAKiSTAM
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MiANAGEMEtIT
Enpanditun A.ssaste by Compe-ests - Ttaln I.eludile Cantlneansla
(R.. Miltiont
Summary Expendftre T.ble (b) PR.
Improvement                                                                    MAE Call
In ir.ech                                    FATADC                           Pretest
C.aas -nd  L-el1fidar                                           L.aetIMlnr Msnngem.nt
Cemmu1tty   DlHulfasary   Wnt .r.urna    Sypetms    Irdlgatlon   Cammuelty   DletrIbalay   Watarsaurna   srlatlsn     Suppod
Devalepmaet    Lavna      and OG-Fam   Supplying    Schemes   DanIapmant    Lend           and On.-Frm    Oshbma        (Spn..
Support  ImproevmentsIimpr-nt    Water In   Denaleprent   sappwd   Impronamele Impr-nmanl  Delplpmnt M&E, TA A
ProarNm      Program      P           FOnSFWUAn . ,eUEm         Proeram      Pr            Peram   Prsarnm P-m      Trnelnta      Tetal
1Innanb- et Cents
A. Clvi Woron
1. Clv Worhk                                 -        241.22       367.05       152 40       56.95?                    23.02         14.94        78.07                1.465.14
2. Skilled Labor                             -             -        40.30            .           .            -            .          1.24            -          .       50.S0
2. UnsMIlIed Labor                           -             -       105.94            -           -            -            -          4.25            -           -     11t.19
Subtotl Cnlvl Werha                            -        241.22       523.80       103.48      655.97            -        23.02         20.43        78.87           ,    1.,48.83
8. Adml.ilmtrlen S OpeatIons  .            29.06             -        66.16         5.49       30.78         2.50            -          4.34         4.27       22.93     168.41
C. ConsuOlog Serel..n                      78.08             -            -         3.30        17.80       20.55             -            -         4.27        4.20     120.88
0. Eiqlpm-nt                                7.18         25.85            -         2.74           .         1.54          2.46            -            -        1.06      40.84
E. Vehicles                                18.51             -            -            -           -         7,31            .             .            -        4.13      29.90
F. Traning                                  8.34-                                      -           -         0.79             -            -            .        5.73       14.85
Totl PROJECT COSTS                           142.67       207.07        590.11       114.99      704.53       32.7D         25.48         24.77       87.42       38.13    2,027.87
Taxes                                      30.11         24.99        21.21        12.65        37.90        8.07          2.38         0.88         5.01        5.74     149.54
F.r.lgn Ecohu.go                           17.01         19.43        22.40         0.17       41.51         8.93          1.00         0.00         5.03        4.20     128.12
PAKiSTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
Espandlt.r A.s..n.t by Camp.anet. - Telale lesladlee Cnllnaen.esla
Summary Eependlltr Tabl- e uS0                                                                      (U50 Millin)
NWFP
Impranamact                                                                   MUE CnII
ri 5-runo                                    FATADC                            Pce)ag t
Cnnl so 1   d  LeaeUMtoar                                        Lasa.lleMner Mdanagamant
CemmeeIty   Dlatr1berry   Watereore    syptame       Irdgadon    Communety   Olni1lbstary   Watlr-sre    1ral,llse     Suppart
Usnolypment    Lel         ned On-Fnrm   SepplYIna    sehmon   Dn-Inspmsmt    Len-l         sod On-Furr   (sSnmsu       1p..
Seppert  Imprenamoel. Impr..em.ntn   Watarta   De..lspme-t   sapprd   Impreements Impravaeetn Da...eIsPMet MtE, TA S
Praram.      Pr-.rnm      Proa,       FOdFWUAn    Pr.a.'         Pre'am       Prer_a        Proarm       Preaom      Tralnint)   ToUt
1. Inneubonet Costs
A. Cll WIrInk
1. CIvil Werks                               .         3.834         5.757        1.834      10.291            -        0.375         0.232        1.236           -   23.359
2 Skilled Laber                               -            -         0.773            -           -            -             -        0.019            -           -    0.792
3. Unnkilled Labor                            -            -         1.675           -            .            -                      0.D55            -           -     1741
Subtatal CllH Werkn                             -        3.034         8.204        1.34      10.291            -         0.375        0.310        1.232           -   25.892
B. Admiis-talio- 5 Operations               0.483                      1.050        0.008       0.487        0.040             -        0.000        0.068       0.307     2.65s
C. Ceo-ulling Sroe...                       1.274            -             -        0.053       0.281        0.335             -            -        0.000       0.no5     2.077
0. Equipm-nl                               0.120         0.409             -       0.046            -        0.020        0.040             -            -       0.018     0,050
E. Vehicles                                 0.31-                   -                  -            -        0.124            .             -            -       0.009     0,503
F. Tnining                                 0132              -             -           -                     D .013                                             .092    0.27
Total PROJECT COSTS                           2.319         4.243        9.223        1.821       11.0A5       0.503         0.414         0.300        1.300      0.014    32.025
T..o.                                       0.494        0.390         0.333        0.201       0.595        0.144         0.039        0.014        0.070       0.094     2.380
Fnraign Enohanga                            0.294        0.308         0.351        0.130       0.501        0.110         0.030        0.015        0.079       0.000     2.043
- 52 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
T.biu 1 Conm,tty Oooprn adSPportProgram  9WFP
DOtlnla Costs
(Ro. 000)
ParsI aar lin %)
QGcootloa                                         Totals IolodlIVCooalossools                    Cot.  Fr.   Gross
Uol   2002  2003  2004 2005 2000 Total Unit Cost   2002         2000      2004      2605      2000      Total    Rots  Esoh. Tso Rst
A. Socsi Orgolsaldn Fisid Tsaot
I. Isalls Buro.y T.sma (BST) 1s
EngNrs                                                slasn   2        2     2     -          06    480.0       9000    tOdOi   1.1024            -         ,     13z48    0       0      20
SuaYPtts                                             styos   2        2      2      *    ,    8      100.0      3728      3921      4127                         t t  0    0              2o
aubftO N   at l II.. o-oy T-  (aOl)                                                                              1,3500   t.437.7   1.513,1                   -    4,10 3
2 Sc.al GogolasN.on Ts-ms isoT l
SDcDIMc= Uttc nCctodoo                                afrt ryt n   2   2     2                8      4*0.0      900.8  13045.    1,100.4          .3,t.8    0                      0      20
Soolovrgar4rY e                                               at    0  8     0                Ie  t  36000    2,2248   2.352,9   2.475,9          -         -    7D033    0               20
.brttt lSoolat ogcotluo Ta-ot (SOT)                                                                              3,2t3 3.e   39 i6i      .3         -         -   1 0.0&
3. Tolthlt  opport T.acs (TNT) kt
Too  oi =C.ootria  (Englosr)                          ilot 00         0      0    0    I    0 0         4800    2396.4   2130.    3,301.2   3,408.3   3,839      10.0103    0      0      20
Aoccootg Systam S"dNI                                 Off y-a    2    2      2    2    2    tO    2400          498.4    322.9      550.2    577.7      806.     2,751.7    0      0      20
Subtotal Tach1oel appe T.s.o (TST)                                                                               3,400.    3,S9D 5   3,851.4   4,044.0   43246.2   19.2620
4. Oso  dd   t1 (frt.. GSd)
Agn EC= rbtVAdotiulto,1st(OST)                        aIsflfar  2     2      2     -          6      144.0      2960.     313.7     3301          -         ,      940O     0      7       5
a0iu8oos SpcdcIilt (SOT)                              otlf ytta    4  4      4 A       .      12    1900        741.0     184.3    825 3                         3,351 I    0      7       I
W.8 le..oagoat OSp-fita l(TST)                       .arylpar  6      6      8    0    8    30    144.0         80.09      41.1     9904    1,039.9   1,091.9    4,9531    0       7       3
Agriouocti (TST)                                     IoIfyna    8     8      8    6    0    30    144,0         8.9.    941.1    990.4   1.039  _.810            4.83.1    0       7       5
Saft utl I- Socdad B0ttl (from G-ot2) 2.0101                                                                               2,980 0   3,1303    2 ,70.7   2,183.8   13.197 8
5. opootlm  E,,posaB
FbId pNog ard o1aurrundngOb                           Amount                                                   2.080,0   2,39002   2,83684  1_757 2     9968.    9,b42    0        7       5
Scmotei Sooalsi  rguatao slonFdTao-                                                                               12.912    130710   14,7124   7'iiiT              S38083
B. Locl- MIs4t1 81.d  (1-hln) Fiald T-s
1.        S-no y T...s (SOT)
itnulcoat                                             alatlynan                                2     4800           ,    0229        30.2                        1073.0    0       0       20
S-crt-c -to                                           a               2      2                I -   4  180.0          -    092      410 7                                      80 7    0  0  23
obtoDta Ssaios muony T- ma (BST)                                                                                            034.9    9302.9                        1.8777
S.Socal OgsMlo.ts T7-m m 00S)
Sol.I  DC -rdln-ot-                                                    I     I    I    -    3        4800                 02208    3502       577.7               1 ,6507    0     0       20
So-WaO 2nrUzcr                                         utar           3      00                      300.0 2              704.2      253      9.0s               2,4701     0      0      20
Oubtcs1 Sccu GOaccitlca T.acs (.O)                                                                                         1,307.0   1,3755    1,444 3        -    4 i2I  8
3. TachoiS1 NBppoat T.sms (TST)
TacIcC Co -tralor (Engin-or)                          so 7801   ,      1     I    1           3      4500                 022.a 0    5352     577.7         -    1C007    0        0      20
Accuono SytomS pd dat                                 tffyo      -     1     1    1            3     243.0          -    20.4        2751     2805          -      8234    0       0      20
pHvd                                                  ist yns    -     i     I    I            3     1900                 1950      3003      cisc          -      000o    0       0      23
3uny./Rod-r                                           oa e Y-          I     1    1            3     1340                 3808      1031      1733          -      493.2    0      0      20
OaOtaOlT.aihol.ucl  pPDAtTa.s.(TOT)                                                                                   ,   1137,1   1,0987    1.258,3         -    3.000
4  codd Su Ifo Govt.)
Agri EotcolaomAlhgtutloti(SST)                        a.llpr   -       1     1                2      I440 a               1500      105.1         -                3219    0       0       5
Wutor lecosgonnai 4SposicOast(TOT)                    olsifo, r    -         3 1    1          3     144.0                150.0     105.1     1733          -      493.2    0      0       5
Ag,cf.ttst (jST)                                     fafyet   -        I     1    I    -    3        144 0          -    350        005.1     173.3         -      493.2    0      0       5
Foid Avbn -Sut-yot (TST)                             lsdlroer   - Y          I    I      -    3      U 0            -      91.5      96.3    101.1                 2893    0       0       5
3ubtet0a toodod 0S84f0 from Govt) G50                                                                                                 593.5     447.7         -
S. Opatatlo E.".sac
FPidcotgm od  ko rsrtdg cols                           Amouni                                                       ,     379.0     390.9     2698       032     1.11307    0      0       5
s.bftfsl L-I0 Ml.., imigato (LNi) Flats T-sms                                                                           -   4,3800    4,525.4   3,4181       83.2   136307
C. Curs Ta.. Id
1. Coeoauot M.t
Tlom Ladtr                                           sba lYos   I      I     1    1    I    5    1.9000        1,0840   1,905   2,0033    2.1804    2.274,7   101.3109    0       0       20
S-1oic Otgoioetlcn 03 ntubt Mon9  0                                  4                       12 32    880.0    5.091,7   3,4871        -         -D 10.0706    0                  80      20
Trarlttog Spodeflatlco it. onrt  0                                    4      I    ,    -    13    90.0          8404      3815       08 8           ,              024,7    0      so      20
Hyidoliagil        E,r,ionsgl0 M    TacYt                              I           I    1      3    3,8o00.0    ,         037    1,7109    1,0054                5 5,150,5    0    0       20
A         E--I.ulr                                    Sl     t Y..     I     I    I    -    3        MD00                 8535      007.      7001          -    3,0834    0       0       20
hat Mczn8rlnc SpclOEat                               Sa,lIbo d'  '       '     '         I    0 S     000.      8150      050.5     607.0     722,1     7580     3,430,0    0      0       20
Tachnel sall rste Y.las   1                                            I     1    1    I           0 00         018.0    8005       087.0     722.1    758.2    3,439 6    0       0       30
Subctt. Con.cRct satcf                                                                                          io0,170   9,303 2   5,914,7  60130,2   0,7901    30,323 5
0' Secoedad *la vt aum Gowt.)
CADlCAMSA^Al sll                                      alsO r     .           -  -        -     I     1900 D               190 0         -         -         -      38o    0        0       5
S. Opeostio Eapvdittu..s
FlWtd opotarog und zlct9rrnlnung cgtt                 Amouot                                                    7198      701.1    8S01 6      41.0    003.3    4,00e1    0        7       0
Subtota Coo Taco                                                                                                  1O,00.9   10,230.4   6.715,7   8,979.2   4,67 4   3ifliy6
D. Tonolg (Cap.Wky BsadloiGaod.o I.ouu)
P.omodo sodTo1nigMulotr                                 Atoi                                                        309      436       573       60.2      63.3      255,     0      0       10
Trclchtg 00 P414 Tacoc cod eras  coccy aybooing        obrottll k  23    25    20    ,    ,    70      10.0       2575      272,0     2233          -         -      750.0    0      0       0
T.Icto folFOs                                           aleak           1 0    1    tO   14   8         50            -      545       57.3    9003        80.5      296.5    0      0       0
Goo  dochc: Tn,,fta ,TA, 0NW0 Ukcag                     Aott                                                      5150    1,0Y92   17194    1,8050     1,006.    7,020,5    0        0       0
OcOtoosa Tclitt (Cupecky Solldloitsonda  asasa)                                                                     B3 i       S9r   2:063 3   1      a9018   2.047 3    6353Z
E. Vohitcl
4WD VaNls (4). V.co (4), PId Ups (tO). Motsoo.c   (48)  Aloot 10,000.0   7,04 2                                                           ,         ,         ,   18,5144    0       30      50
r. FrIr. sod Eqolpmo Is                                   Amou"t 38030   0380                                                               -         -         -    71030    0        23      50
Tctcl                                                                                                                T3I0    40,8424  28,0178   20,2401   14,2102   ti272f1
to Thstawould h  o laihd oboe  Esolte Soot cOls oid hens cooh051which could oomrplnaOSOOrt 0150 snrcc Moo Stobibiulry 02153 months
lb Tho stanol  br lom omuld dapood on bn Furmn OturaolDeon (ffO) ci ha dtamtcutsymitrct whit  bt tray nowcrblou  On so soaae so S T wools maca cnoro TO tboU 041 moirito (TMM mo2dnl)
TST -Iwold 00kb l9t'e 70 to aboutlvcyara (T70M   odt), cra  -oont pd 0 12-18 moolh (J0 modo,).
d Co- tea Wcii Dd topolbta to loatbo Soosoolo Repors hc asooo,Odi   a        ThI,   rpftd rOil ab Inlltly ptcdctd by Urn TSTs
- 53 -



PAJKSrAN
NHWFPONFARM U"   MNGEEN
Ta32   V *. W m mendFam b p          Fwnriw 4ga1 - WN:P
Cdidoo
(R CODO)
~~~~W0)P sM
Ph.
Q.rin'Ub                rLk*              TOWS icwdng Cm*jwildh                      Coi Fo.  Gus
Unk _2W       3       29t5 20D Tod   Cod    2O2 2                 0 4   2D6               To        Ro  EBdi Tax Rd
1. CM vf
b                                  No& -    -   10 3C0   20D 699           224.4      -       -  2B,294.3  89,1248  62389.7 17,8         10    6      5
Skla Labo                                 -    -   100  3C0  2C9  600    31.0         -        -  3SS34  11,132   7,8352  22,881.8      0    0       0
U     d Labor                      No&    -    -   100  399  209  60D    727                      8        264S  18.374S  5SE            0    0      0
wst OAW                                                                                 -       - 40181.0 1235S?9  8M,9 255i,34a7
1.CM4WwOw
Maw                                No& -   1C0  25D  25D  13D  73D   133.3            - 1570.7  4201O0  44,11.9  24,038 1260195          10    6     5
Sd3JLgbor                          Ns, -   100  250  25D  13)  73D    172             -  183    4,9    5,1754   2,8257  1433             0    0      0
Urakl 1d Labor                     No5 -   1O   25          ) 25D  13D  73D    505    - 5002  14,4715  15,.1951   82%5  43,463.3         0    0      0
Subo'w C                                                                                - 233443  61,419.4  64,4383  35,2121 184,455.1
.WdgrxwpTadftk
1. CM  ik
WOWS                               NaK    -   59   10D  19  I1O   350   113.7         -6,8112  14,333  150527  15A&O  52X06.2            10   6       5
Skbdldr                            Km     -   50   1000   100  3E0    283.            -  1,564   3,3D12   3,4553   3MR6  11S755          0    0       0
kddLabor                          Nos -   50   1W0 1W0   1    350    25.3             13 7.8   Z90 345   3,197.3  10S11                 0    0       0
Sub.   CMWa                                                                             -  9,757.4  20S37.5  213,4.0  2,428  74,01.8
.Laad Lea4                            Fb-  34  559  559 1,100 700 3034    25    87.5  1,6317   1,7194   3,3098   2,211.6   86z0             0    3      0
.      CamCa                          no    -    8    1515   10   48          120        -   104.6    206.3    2166    151.7    6792        0    3      0
Ad*    akdOp CA
1. Fasn11U SWSWM
Ie abL& Id                         Aamrt                                           3399   39.4    3783       3972    417.0  1,891.8      0    0       5
AmeTem3r1e                        Am  t                                            675.5    MS    974.3   1,02S0   1,0742   4,8728       0    0       5
: ITewm(12)A                      Amat                                           9,OSI7  9,576  10,075.6  10,57A4  11,1034  5D3S0.7      0    0       5
Tes OCp       sb                  Amul                                            1,I17.1  1J1Q0   1,79I 6   1,8816  1SB4.1  9,OC4       0    7       5
SUA01aw mnium    s11S8s52 jl                                                              ~ 1256E9  132278  13,8892  14.5837  65,155.7
I                                                                                  1197367 474938  137291.4  23006.8 163401.7 5901125
# Hvctk=2Bdui,15% Fwde           r8l  sdd
.i Wrgh= 1600 m, 20d do52OWd
aze= 192a tim (6400 dQ
5wss3)+Spcitst5)
hee Tefmv,  nTEpe3  s aI 17B    t  falaiitm mwh and  :4PUTe
eFiddTean (3dku.+ 19 s.p* i hiT          oLdam sa  p  blet3rc  x*g22wt 6Air4,a d5D hadPlp er .
Ad c9ear and c*e nzt  casisL
- 54 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
Tebti 3. Dltfib.toy L.0.01 I m bofto Prog-on - NWFP
Dtatled Costs
(R6.000)
P.M.oota  Ifn %n
Phy.
Ouantttllb                    Unni           Totals lncluding Contlnoanole.                        Co0t.  For.    Gr..
UnN   2002  2003  2004  2005 2006 To0l   Coat    2002    2003             2004      2005     2006       Tottl       Rate  E.oh.  To. Rota
I.1 ..v..t lnt Coste
A. Di.trtlboory L.-. O...
Land Cost                                Plot.    0    10    S       -           20    10         824.0  1,742.6    917.0                        3,483.6      0      0         5
o0mc Conotrootlon                        OfM..   5      10    5                  20    1,290    7307B.  15N455.   B.132.7          -             D0B96.1       10     0         0
S.bto.ta Dl.trtb.tany L-oI Offl...                                                                 8,131.8  17,198.2  9,049.7         -        -   34,379.7
G Distibtany bnprn7omtnot ha
1 Joint Mao.g..rnt                       No..    -      1     6      6     1    14    B.000            -  9584.8 60,522.5 63,547.1 11,121.2  144,775.6         10     6         5
2. Man-go-nltTrTnaf.r                    No..           1      2     2     1      b     B.000          -  95U4.8 20174.2 21 102.4 11 121.2   02002.5           10     6         5
S.bi8t.1 Dit.ttbfatry tbpnoo.n- 19.180,7  80096.7  84720.5  22242.3  20663B.1
C. Machilory and Eqipmolm                   No..           2     8     8      2    20     1.100              2396.6  10087.2  10509.9   2700.5   25084.2          0     20        50
Total                                                                                                 8,131.6   38.764  99033.6  95319.4  25022.8  267072.1
Ut7840001 lotncludeso Ro 900.00 P.r distrib.tary fr EPA  0h0rg0. (.ater q00alty mnonllori%n bnoitonntat 000se60 dtaboso)
U.01 4 Irp--temOnt In Br..dlVDic4btary Canal ...ISy0t   AbOca FOSIFWUA. - NWFP
Detall0  Co..
(R. '000)
PonaatOn r! ln 10 _
Phy.
0,00000                    UnIt                       TouI. nottdIng COnanO.U.0l0                            Con.   For   G-r0.
UnIt 2002 2003  2004 2006  2006 Total   Coat         2002       2063       2684        2005        2006        Total        R.t.  Erch. Ta. Rat.
1. tnvoatm    Costa
A. CIWI Work.
R.lh.bllItlaonWor.                    N.0 .       5     6     5     0    20    4.000                  23,9622     25,217.7    28,477.8    27,8030     103.4808      10     7      10
B Adrnin.tr.ao  and Opatirn Coato      Ano-nt                                                  024.0      1,307.0    1,146.3     1.203,5     1,011.0      5,491.8     0       7      5
C Super .oMo C-00ti001                 A-0u00                                                  494 4       784.2       S87 8       722.1      600 0       329501       a      0     20
0 ForrOtur .nd EqolpOon                A.-011                                                 106400     _10004            .           .                  2,737       0 a    20     50
Tot.,                                                                                           2,90  4    27,142.0    27,051 7    20,403.0    29,420 6   114 00 51
Table S. Loca1/MInor mgolatlon S0h0m.0 DoO-Io.n,-t Progro. - NWFP
Detaltd Coot.
(R.. 000)
Parameters tIn #)
Phy.
a.an.tlt.                      UoIt               Total. ton.tdl.n  Contt.ntle.                        Con!. For.   Gro00
Unlt  2002  2000  2004  2005  2006  Total   Coat   2002   2003            2084        2065       2006       Total       Rat. Eooh. To  Rat
1. InvaOtab.at Co.!.
A. Cl,l WoYoks                            NO..                 10    10    S       25    20,000       -         -  252,177.1  264,779.6  139,014.0  650,971.2       10     6        S
E Adlnitrtatin & Op.rationc .p n.o.      Amount                                                           5,446.0   10,318.3     9,628.3    5,371.0   30,761.6       0     7        S
C. Con..ltirn  Se-vie-                   Amount                                                     _    2,014.0    6,2815       5,6009    3,222.0  17,798.9         0     0       20
Total                                                                                                    -  B,05909  268,774.9   280,080.0  147,600.1  704,531.7
ba Ac. minor irrgaton schoo-  -oold h.. 800 h.. groso command 0100.
- 55 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
Tshs 6. C-a      DoAlyOtstotlolmc, OSppodPgom n. FATA
WItoSH  Cott
lV,4000)
Pacoatsr 1600Sl
Phy.
Qoantlttas           ~~~~Unit                  CTe.'. %wdM,h. Ctnllntnds                        Cant    Far       Grass
Unit   2t02  20t7   264         N 0000   2050   Total   Cast  2MM2        200t       2tl4       20S       2006      tot.'      Eat    Etch.      s Ta. t.
1 Inoitrtt Coat.
A.    l Ocial tran    1td T.s. b.
1. StaIn su y TeeS .(D ST7m    1ST)l
Anohmar                                          aDff Onar   0.0-       -            -      - 0.        460.0       247.2                                                  0  47.2  0        0        20
Agd. Eracor )AgrcioLaDi                          tlafyfst   00          -92                             1440         74.2                                                    42     0        0        20
0Nr P.aFstas                                     atell Yn,  0.5                                 0.5     180.0        92.7 _        -927                                                      0        20
St.Ptal ftaslc  iturS.y Ts..oc 403T)                                                                                  414.1                                                  4141
2. Iitlal 0radtvttrn T-al (SOT) li
SoYt MocltsL cootlo.r                            aff 8..        .      .      .      .      . 1         460.0       40 4                                                            D 4C4  0  0       20
SO4sOrsnltarc                                    C     ..ffOyt7    '.  . -        -         . 1         3000        3708                                                            C 0704   0  2     20
In0fLmt S.oAhlat                                slaffys      1      -. .      .      .      . 1         1000        100 t          -                                       1805     0        0        20
Sobtittl =ocial 0ro.itinnTars (SOT)                                                                                  1.050 a                     -                         100S.0
3 Tach.lcal itoB.op   T-tatttST) Id
Tc40AcalCoit OSo00(Entlnsr                       07 byt' l          1      2              -             4 400.                 5Z25      1.1002            . .           1 2        0        0        20
WoalsWM2 -toant5psthi.ol                         sbff        -      '      2      -             0       14t0            -      1560       01              .               407.      0        0        20
A40,l,M  l                                       adtaff ysr    .           2                     3      10 .0           -      15.         M201           -        -       4872              0        20
acunOnit Sln 0000                               tatOffrs.' Y        1      2      -              0      2400            -      2i12       550.2          -                 0100    90        0        20
Palnoll                                          acoftys.'    -     1      2                            ' 0   1800      -      10.0       4121           -    _            000s     0        0        20
So.t.AI TtamnlI O.p-.o TsTrin (70Z3 .T1.2930                                                                                               2,720.          .-              4 ,17.4
FM10  pntQ st olIsniomnoaste                     A- s2Z338.                                                                    24702      Z5D2           -         -      7012      0        0         5
,ctata Oc... OruaIcotta Fisld Tss..s                                                                                   1,800.0    1.511      2.000                            .0-
it.il MSorI Oi-  atLaniL7 n Fl5d Tsm.5
8. icm. Scony Ts.... (500)
tn(S,ssr                                         staff..' n.       0. 5    1      - . -10 480J                          -       01.4      502                              a -  8010         0        20
Ag1. EoonO9AWhItdi-lsi                           001ff0 Y-         0.0     1       -            0.       1440           -       784       165.1           -                240      0        0        20
015051'54F51it.05                                stIf3y*ff   -      1      2      -             3 0     0000            -      190.0      412.7          -                808.7              0        20
iuOtawel     i  S sy T ts (ST)                                                                                            -                                                1.01938
S. Oral Orosnluittlit Ta-s [SOT)
S0 mdoatitOso,COOI                               siaff      y -     1     00     0.5      -      2      4000                   022.       2701        2880 P             1.0588     0        0        20
SYD Oits                                          ltf ys            2 2    2      2             b       3 0        _           784.2      820.3      800.0        2* 491     9               0        20
Sotttl1Scal OrgaitaTac saT-  (OT)                                                                                               1007.0   1.-00       1.0-4                3.5Q25
3 T-,hnirt  ap-     a..m. (T0T)
Cscitnit CosniDtcso (Engi.9o-)                   alsO yaar                        I 0   1  1    3       400.0                  522.8      5502       077 7               146.07     0        0        20
WirM...t2t  nttSa    elal t                         yar                                                                        IN -   I  I 1   0  4  . 1.0  1 I 81  1733    402    0        0        20
raOtO                                            asffO -a           1      1      I                                               I 0  040.   1008  0s001  073.3          495.2     0        0        20
AocraLos so tyaiao OtsdaIl                       alsO yas' 7        1      0      1             30      2000 9          -      2134       2751       2000          -       8204     0        0        22
PRO d0ar400070311005                             aittfl ast  -      0      1      1             3 0         9 00                09105      00        10101         -       208      0        0        20
Pota  ttaffomar    -                                                1      1      1       -      3 0        0     _           10960      2062       200                   9010.    0        0        20
Sw,tatal Tao00o1 Sit-so T-om  (tTO)                                                                                        .    100054     1.454      150.100        .     4,30744
4. op00000080 Ecpn,
4        d,,tstt g.ndoll.oot. raa D              Ano.ni                                                                        32067      3439       2407      8712        t.58     0        0         0
Su0tta Local  anI lo- itit (LMI) Plidlamit-                                                                                       3.0050     40302      2.9271      Er.2    10.5990
C Cowa Tesm a
l. Ctona'20a Stall
Ta..  L-,dr NrPV T... L.-)                       SDff r             . -      -       -    -                                                                                                  0 -
sOrnat           Er                             OlffoM_Oon   3 0    0                                    MWs 0     2,4700     28153                                      50.d072    0        80       20
Tsisr,g Sapmodo l                                Sff isOon   0      0                           8 0         90      185 4      1060                                        38 10             80       20
VrdChLntt C  -tS7 2.07                                                                                                          28004                                      5117
Z Oparaitito Err antusm
01014 07500000 altO o7Os lonliog 0000            Att,ooni                                                          _           074.7      114.8       100      146.0       7593     0        7         5
SoctotslOom Iaitm                                                                                                      2.81730    0.1000       114.5      0002    14M.8       .2700
S. TrIaodno (Copcty U-dl)gitandac Inoaee
P.t- m        T.mln-ogMa.SlrDh                      Amoml                                                               100        10         110        12C 447                      0         0        10
TotnoiS MF    Tram  and. ratoll a r ln .c00ffw n                      10      I                   2 6       10.0           -      100.       114            -                2t35     0         0        0
T,thlorScF                                                            3      3sff_&    -  0  0  4   10       50            -       103        172        241         -        575      0        0        0
Gandra.,I-   Trining. 14. SNO Lhkcg.               5mo0.0                                                                         00.0      114.8      0202    122          460       0        0        0
ochbttDl Training (Cap.coy BEidiniOasdr s.-)                                                                              81.       0 0S0.     207 9      1000    16.4         7031
E 9hdNl b
4-W.00    (sl 1). Vla  (8 J), Mora-cyas (2)         A-ooni                                                           7.3128                                                7.3128     0        30        50
F         .F . Esma -ro 1qoIO,t7                      Amoon                                                                                                                                      29 o0
Tot                                                                                                                      132' 5.3 8042 2        T8 038600  02009    2002       32.000
Bs Osose Itol  pt  s   000th0 FATA00. e-nd-i  of Grf lsO ff  rot a -   d.
\bT7hs"ratcoieooa  edtsoisrlito(.oTlOhhosotOdralbolasulscooa dlslOtstatrh o ts.OorOctt
cThn s1ira 91  onr solo  spao o dndm    OFanbraorinhauson (F03I 1Ia dhidholaylrmocdioltobh Aspa,.itolog  On santg, 1ww     nS07T i sojOotR ota 00. shoo tS rrOs.
d TST soul0d st    , ftOh 0n FO fcoithra 18-24 msq.
Ia Comoso Dasill hi vmayrnla 12Oct10. oranaba Rmrhl0Radla rdicnIOcoGO.iI adonsmas mrofl cOO hcis ioaiyahponu    87W ott TOTE.
Tatac 7. Wal-oo-r c,,d OroFa-  Irop-rsoa   Poogoc  -0610A
Detalted Costa
(O. '0003
Far.nmdars Oin S1)
Phy.
gtnTltlo-                                     UnOt              Totalsltcto6na Csnitt        is .o.C.                          For.    GOo.
U05     2t002    2003    2004   2005   2008   Toa          Catol                                                                    R.8.   Eooh.  Tao Rota
1. Innastossot Coasb
A. Frost,h Or-ndabto, Art-  l
1t CIvl Woirks
M4t00  N3os.                                          -        -       0       10      10       2        2038         -        -  14077   3.0820   3.23d 3          7.76d0        10       6          5
SklNd L-Yr                                  Noa       -        -       0       10      10       2         274         .-             170      32908    3003          833t1                 0 
U.N00dl d LdbOT                             Soc       -        -       0 5     10      10       20        030 -3-   477.4  1,002.5   1OSZ7                         Z532j          0        0          0
Sabtobtl ClIl Werlk                                                                                                                 210 21   4414A4  4,635.2        11.151 7
E. S.a. Ars.a
1. Ch0 Wortk
MMlo                                        N         -                5       10      10        5       16306        -           1,001.   2.16,9   2,2740          24710         190      5 
S0l0lld Lgto                                Noi       -        -       5       10      10       20        13e4        -        -    76.     1013        169 3        407.4        0        0          0
U0n03id L.bo                                N.s       -                5       10      10       2         0 4         - A           3 3.2   6070        7120a       1714          C        0          0
S30880.3 Coil Worar.k                                                                                                                1,4310    3,006.0   3,15 4       7593 08
C. (mod Lfsoawnmg                                 Sa        .              100     200     200    50           2 6           -          200.0    601.8    6319         1,5202         0       3          0
D OorNooolratlorcootoro                           no       -       4        *4      4 *             12         12.0              5 023    000       070          -        0001         0        0         0
E. Adntttilttr.  and OpWtos  Casts
1.            SUnNt  SlsrI.a
Field T-m  (23)/b                         Amount                                                                      _   229       9674   1,015 8    266.7         247,7         0        0          5
T...0Op g110 CoUstoc                     A4oun                                                                        -    0.05   573.1    601.0    831.9          1.61,2         0       7          5
Total                                                                                                                         -   330 B05,415   090075  90322.0           24771 8
00 Tr  Fie0l4 ngt.    (0 CoOa. I0% 11  000ppO0s affgT bor h -oata) b000  lspo.ibltq fortrnsting 50 0    ,, aod 500 h. PLL In 3 po-r
lC 01840 opafIrJ rn1 oOra rootmg rst. -N I
- 56 -



PAKISTAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEIENT
Table S. Loraieort u11oo Sob. D-Wlopa     Program -FATA
Daled Cota
(R.. WO)
Par-eroter, In 5.%
Phy.
QOuatla.                                          Total. leladlig ContlWe s                         Coot    For.   Groos
Unlt  2002  2003  2004  2005  2000  Tobt Udt Cod  2002          2003        2004       2005        2000       Total      Rota    Eroh. Tao Rate
1. tnv.at  Cocb
A. CMI Works u                             Nos.    *      1      1     2     2      6    10.000        -    11,981.0    12.008.9   2S.478.0    27,802.9    78,870.8   10      6        5
B.AmLon&k8 5      rtA oneo erodP Amoant                                                                -                  5 0731    1,80.3      1,895.7    4,274.1    0       7        5
C. CoDleibog Swst                         A-out                                                                   -       573.1     1.605A      10895.8    4274.1    0        0       20
Total                                                                                                    -    11,981.0    13,755.1    30,088.6    31.594.2    87,419.0
b Av. mlinr rnooo ohomn wo4d cnd abort 400 ha. gosso ara.
PAt3STAN
NWFP ON-FARM WATER M1ANAGEMENT
Tabte t. Dtb1tbutry Lerel hmprovnabot Proonram - FATA
Detaled Cost
(Rs. 0WO)
Paramets (bi %)
Phy.
OCedntto                                             Total.steoledlog C-ottnggolsa,                Coot.  For.  Gross,
Un.t   2002  2003  2004  200 2000  Tobt Urit G.M    2002             2002        2004      2005    2006        Total    Rate  Eoch. Tao Rate
1. ivaboenl Coat.
A. DItdrbutay L-t Offfoa.
LanJ Cosl                                    Plots    1      1     -      -            2     160         164.8       174.3                    -        -       339.1   0      0      5
Ofike Consoctlo.                            Office    1      1     -      -     -      2    1,290      1,481.6     1,040.6           -        -        -,    3,007.1  10      6      5
Subtotal Dtitrbutary L-et  Offls                                                                         1,626.4     1,719.8                    -        -     3346.2
B. DistribLiorylmpro-n-rertIdntMarogorreont /  Ncs.     -      I     I      -        -   2    8,000            .     9,584.8    10,087.1                      19,671.9  10      6      5
C. Mactnery ad Equip.rect                      Nrs.     -      1     1      -            2    1,100        ---       1,198.3     1,260.9                       2,459.2   0     20    S0
rotd                                                                                                        1,626.4    12,003.0    11,348.0       -        -    25,477.3
a The -ool includos Re 90,000 pr dibutry for EPA chargo. (ooto rquabity -r-noi1rnrmiroomll baeoore datbaos)
NwFP ON-FARM WATER MANEAGMENT
Table 10. Projet Sup olo.., Nosdout  E Evasttuec, ad Training .
Detallad Caata
(R..00
Par-lrrr o . %t
p07.
Q.oar,L9ee              Unit                  Totals InoJudin Csn11n2-se                     Cont.   For.    Gross
Unit  2002  2003  2004  2005  2000  Te   CoGt   2002          2003      2004       2005      2006       Tot l     Rt.  Enoh.  Ta Rate
t.hnt Coats
A. Suporvy Coneuoltbb lb
nrtton EogriEno     t Spard . SpnArad                                                                    103A      217.8     229.3      240.7     2527      1,043.5      0        0       20
B. Mooteodo ad E-ot-1tio to
AgrlEconoe0tlnd. Enh.                            AM-rar                                                  103.0     217.8      228.3     240.7     252.7    1,D43.5       0        0       20
C. Feot lMm- -t -nd Audio
PrdeeahaelAosIdngOSpelao  I  CA)                 Amo tnl                                                 208.0     217.8     220.3      240.7     252.7    1,146.5       0        0       20
S-CA.(sp."r     t h .  0nbrg)121                 Anort                                                   103.0     217.8     229.3      240.T     252.T  1,043.5         0        0       20
SuIbebal Fbln   laPl MaanndAudit                                                                           308.0     435.7     450.5      481.4     005.5    2,190.1
D. Staff Traglrojd Lalnh                           Am..et                                                1,030.0   1,009.3   1,146.3    1,203.5    1.283.8    5,732.8      0       20       20
E. AdMnieolrelo and Opa.neeg Eopeno
-anrdal 9 1f fdaritessnoo _ / d                  A.-ot                                                  3,090.0   3287.6   3,438.8    3,610.0   3,791.3    17,198.3      0        7        0
onta oarting ooMTRtl.                            Amoot                                                  1.030.0    1,08    ,,2 1.146.3   1,203.5   1,2d3.8    5,732.8    0        7        0
Subtot Adml nlne, ln and Opoting Eo.n.se                                                                 4,120.0   4,356.8   4.5850    4,8142    6,055.1    22,931.0
F. Elulp-tl                                        A.rnl                                                   5180      544.7               -              -     1,059.7      0       20       50
G. Vhke                                            Arr-a                                                 2.008.4   2.124j5         -          -         -    4.132.9       0       30       s0
Total                                                                                                       8,108.4   8,988.5   6,848.3   8,980.5   7,329.9   38,133.7
\n To bh base4 at M6E ClvWhq at at   Plrrnh.g, Ero-no  A Dwc. DGpt. GON PFF
lb MAE Cell oD -daply 3 SBr. FlWd Ero.: 3 S,rsng; I So-hioglet and I DatgnrC.Ulo Er.
Ic MAE Col to r-dope 1 Sr. kflgtim Er.: 1 SodolUAdopo1oti I Ag. Eooordst I Jr. "Ir. Enr.: 2 Capnpwtr AnulIt 004 2-4 FIed Enumatr
d tote.*W  aetff dapWyd ton Sop-rAoy, MAE. Sosadwm-. elsoeno adh.8 cotalrade alaS
Indda etaff a.Ad. and oW-le optg sa, ad handY for MITR
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.39 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 29.66 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 7 1 .98%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 57 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Values are combined for NWFP and FATA
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flow                              Fiscal AmpaXt
Econo: fEmic    0 Financial Analysis'
______                      Analysis                                     Taxe  0      1 ;f:Xtt:0:tuE    :       :  s  Subsidies: Tx
Beneflts:                          2341                 2568                   45                   182
PRs (million)
Costs:                             1382                 1727                  280                    66
PRs (million)
Net Beneflts:                       959                  841                (234)                   116
PRs (million).
IRR:                               26.6                 24.3
%
The taxes on agriculture are assumed to be 20% (includes usher at 10% of produce and income tax at 10% on landholdings above 5 ha),
applied to about 10% of the project impact area because of low collection rates. The remaining difference in economic and financial
benefit flow is due to implicit subsidy on wheat and sugarcane. On the cost side, fertilizers (N and P) are subsidized (ranging from
5%-20%), with a weighted average subsidy rate of about 4% for all farn inputs, and capital/O&M project costs. The tax rates on costs is
about 16% mainly due construction items (cement, steel), machinery/vehicles, fuel, services, and farm inputs.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
4.01    The project would increase agricultural production, farm income and employment in some 201,200
ha. of rural areas of the NWFP and the FATA. The project benefits would be due to improved water
supply resulting from: (a) better management of the system through enhanced farmers participation which
would improve the sustainability of the system, increase cost recovery, and reduce the O&M as well as
rehabilitation costs; and (b) improvements in the water delivery infrastructure. The other indirect project
benefits from the improved water management include reduced drainage requirements which would help in
controlling water-logging, checking rise in water tables, improving water quality and reducing soil salinity
risks. It would also reduce the incidence of mosquito-borne diseases by reducing the habitat of mosquitoes
with reduction in stagnant water leaking from deteriorated water channels. Furthermore, it would reduce
long-term negative effects of poor drainage on buildings, roads and utility lines; thereby reducing the
maintenance cost of these facilities. These indirect, yet unquantified, benefits would contribute to
improving the living standard of the predominantly poor rural population. The change in management of
the system and improved cost recovery would reduce the O&M burden on the government and allow it to
redirect resources to improve O&M of larger irrigation infrastructure.
4.02    The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated at 27 percent. The project ERR is
robust and not very sensitive to variations in the project costs or benefits. It is highly unlikely that
unfavorable developments would reduce the project ERR to opportunity cost of capital taken as 12 percent.
The impact on agricultural production, farm income, and economic and sensitivity analysis is summarized
below. The details are in the project file.
- 58 -



Main Assumptions:
A. Agricultural Production
4.03   The impact assessment of various infrastructure improvement and rehabilitation is based on
monitoring results of similar works undertaken under various projects and estimates of pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions. Specific assumptions made in estimating the impact of various project components are
briefly described below.
4.04   Distributary/minor rehabilitation/improvements. Because of poor O&M, the irrigation water
distribution system, both at the secondary (distributary/minor canal) and tertiary (on-farm watercourses)
levels, has deteriorated to such an extent that the delivery of water, its reliability and equity in distribution
has been adversely affected. Monitoring results of IDA assisted Second System Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
1888-PAK) demonstrate that, unless the system is rehabilitated to catch up with the deferred O&M over
the years, the cropping intensity reduces by about 7 percent over a period of five years. The cropping
intensity, however, remained unchanged on the channels which were rehabilitated. Therefore, it is assumed
in the analysis that the future cropping intensity without the project would reduce by 7 percent while it
would remain unchanged in the with project situation.
(j/ "Agro-Economic Impact Study of the Venoi Distributary in Punjab", conducted by the Punjab Economic Research Institute,
Lahore)
4.05   Watercourse improvements and water storage tanks. The post-evaluation of watercourse
improvement surveys conducted for the Third On-Farm Water Management Project (Third OFWM, Cr.
2245-PAX/Ln. 3327-PAK). The Post-Evaluation of Watercourse Improvements Surveys' showed increase in
irrigation efficiency by reducing spillage and operating losses, seepage, and evaporation. It was estimated
that with watercourse improvement package the amount of water delivered to farms has increased by an
average of 26 percent, ranging from 19 percent in Punjab/NWFP to 47 percent in Sindh and FATA.
Additional water resulted in increased cropping intensity as well as there was shift towards higher value
crops. Based on this data it is assumed that the cropping intensities would increase by 28 percent in the
canal irrigated areas of NWFP/FATA, 13 percent in barani spring/well irrigated areas where watercourse
improvements would take place, and 3 percent in the case of water storage tank construction. Overall crop
yields would increase by about 5 percent for fruits, 10 percent for grains, 20 percent for sugarcane, 25
percent for fodder, 16 percent for oilseeds, and 35 percent for vegetables.
(2/ Conducted by WAPDA's Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate on 14 randomly selected watercourses in the
country)
4.06   Local/minor irrigation schemes. Based on experience gained under the Balochistan Minor
Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1243-PAK), it is assumed that construction or
rehabilitation of local/minor irrigation scheme would increase agricultural production through augmented
water supplies to some existing irrigated areas (by meeting crop water requirements), and through
expansion of irrigated area. On the basis of an average local/minor irrigation development model (for
middle altitude cropping pattern), the water flows are expected to increase by 2.5 cusec (from 1.5 cusec to
4.0 cusec with project, and consequently the average cropped area on a 200 ha command area increased
from 131 ha to 437 ha on a 400 ha expanded command area. Increases in crop yields would be substantial,
ranging from 25 to 50 percent for cash crops to 35 percent for fruits.
- 59 -



4.07    Improved management The change of system management, specifically the participation of FOs
in the management at the distributary/minor level, would result in: (a) enhanced sustainability of the
system, reduced O&M  costs and improved cost recovery eliminating the need for periodic rehabilitation;
and (b) increased agricultural production due to reliable and better managed water supply. However, there
is insufficient information to fully quantify the benefits of changing over the management from fully
government run system to the one with significant participation of FOs in joint management, and in some
cases, full transfer of management. Benefit estimates of changing the management taken in the analysis are
very conservative. It is assumed that the anticipated increase in agricultural production would not be
attributed to "management change" and there would be no reduction in O&M costs. In the present
situation, the distributary/minor system requires rehabilitation every five years. It would not require any
rehabilitation if proper O&M is regularly carried out which is expected under the changed management.
Therefore, it is assumed that the cost of rehabilitation every five years would be reduced to half i.e., Rs
350/ha of cultivated command area (full cost for a typical branch canal in Punjab was Rs 600/ha in the mid
90s).
4.08    Target impact area. Estimates of target impact area, by project component or type of investment,
are given below:
impact area in ha.)
Province/    Watercourse   Watercourse        Water      Distributary     Branch       Local/minor
Entity         (canal         (barani       Storage       Canal'         Canal        irrigation'     Total
irrigated)     irrigated)     Tanks'                     (Above FO)'
NWFP              30,400          14,600        10,500        90,000        450,000         20,000        180,100*
FATA               1,320           500             -          18,200            -           2,400         21,100*
Total         31,720          15,100        10,500       108,200        450,000        22,400        see below
Net impactarEa    31,720          15,100        10,500    NWFP: 59,600       45,000         22,400       201,200
used for ERR                                               FATA: 16,880                                   (WP
caculations                                                Total:  76,450                                 (NWFP:0
FATA:
_____________   _____________   _____________   ___________                    ~~ ~~21,100)
1. Av. cultivated command area (CCA) of a watercourse (w/c), is assumed to be 50 ha. Additionally 7.5 ha. of PLL is treated as equivalent of one
w/c.
2. Av. CCA a barani watercourse and a storage tank is assumed to be 20 ha and 30 ha respectively.
3. Av. CCA of a distributary canal is assumed to be 4,500 ha. Net impact area is the total CCA of all distributaries minus the command area of
watercourse to be improved within those distributaries.
4. Av. CCA of a branch canal supplying waterto systems above the FOs (FWUAs) is assumed to be CCA of 5 distributaries with only 10% benefits
attributable to investment in rehabilitation. Therefore, "equivalent impact area per branch canal' (with fill benefits) is taken as 5,000 ha.
5. Av. CCA a local minor irrigation scheme is assumed to be 800 ha in NWFP and 400 ha. in FATA.
* Because of overap in the watercourse, distributaty and branch canal command areas, the row figures cannot be added.
4.09    Prices. Farm budget analysis is based on prevailing market prices (May 2000) which may
increase in future as the Govemnent continues to align domestic and international prices. Economic
evaluation is done using the economic prices. Both financial and economic prices used in the analysis are
given in Table 4-1.
-60 -



4.10   Cropping intensities. Cropping intensities assumed to evaluate different scenarios are
summarized below:
Cropping Intensities (C.I.) Assumed for NWFP/FATA Areas, (%)
(under various scenarios)
C.I.                  Canal        Barani        Water       Local/minor
Scenario              inigated      irrigated      Storage      irrigation
areas         areas        Tanks
Present (command areas)            180           186           118            66
Without Project                    173           186           118            66
With Distributary/Minor and
other Systems Improvements         180                                        -
With Minor Irrigation schemes       -             -             -            109
With watercourse Improvements      200           199           121            -
Incremental (over without project)  27            13            3             43
4.11   Methodology. Crop budgets and farm models in financial and economic prices were developed
representing different cropping and irrigation systems for, NWFP/FATA, Barani Areas, Water Storage
Tanks, and Minor/Local Irrigation Schemes. Net crop production values per hectare in with and without
project scenarios are given in Table 4-2, and net production values for different subproject areas (NWFP
and FATA) are given in Table 4-3.
Agricultural Production
4.12   Based on the above production assumptions and phasing of systems and watercourse
improvements, water storage tank construction, barani areas improvement and local/minor irrigation
development the incremental production due to the project is summarized below:
Annual Production (000 tons)
Crops                  Present        Without        With Project     Incremental
Project
Wheat                               31.3            30.9            35.5              4.6
Maize                               28.1            27.8            36.1              8.3
Fodder (rabi+kh.)                   43.0            42.5            74.9             32.4
Tobacco                             4.3             4.2              5.0              0.7
Vegetables (rabi+kh.)               9.2              8.9            19.8              10.9
Oilseeds                            2.2              2.2             3.4              1.4
Sugarcane                          152.9            150.5           191.7            41.2
Orchard                             16.0            15.9            20.9              5.0
Total                  287.0           282.5           386.2             103.7
(36% increase)
- 61 -



B. Farm Incomes
4.13   The impact on farm incomes (in financial prices) based on seven farm models developed for the
project analysis is summarized below:
Annual Net Farm Incomes in NWFP/FATA (Rupees)
Canal              Barani              Local!
Attribute            Irrigated         (Spring/well     Minor Irrigation
irrigated)
Farm Size (ha)                 1.8                2.2                 1.8
Present                      26,734             25,131               7,286
Without Project              26,577             26,035               7,535
With Project                 32,339             34,494              22,579
Incremental                  5,605               9,363              15,293
%Increase                      21                 37                  210
1/ Increase with project situation over the present net farm income. Large increase for "minor irrigation" due to greater crop diversification in
favor of high value crops (vegetables, orchards) and lower base farm income as experience from Balochistan Conmmunity Minor Irrigation
Project suggests.
C. Economic Analysis
Returns by Types of Investments under the Project
4.14   ERR estimates for different types of investments under the project are summarized below, with
details available in Tables 4.4 to 4.6. Separate models with one ha as unit cultivated area were constructed
for each type of investment because of differences in investment costs, commands areas, cropping pattems
and benefits. For the change management subcomponent, project benefits were assumed to be 50 percent
of savings in the systems rehabilitation costs every five years as elaborated in para 4.7 above. For the
remaining subcomponents, target impact areas (as shown in para 4.8) and net benefits per ha were
multiplied to arrive at the benefits.
Economic Rates of Return (%)
Subcompoonent/Scenarios               NWFP          FATA               Combined
Change Management (TMM/PIMM)                     12.0          0.0                    9.5
Distributary level improvement                  34.4           47.6                  36.5
Branch canal improvement above FO               47.7           NA                    47.7
Watercourse (irrigated) Improvements             29.7          24.3                  29.5
Watercourse (barani) Improvements                21.6          18.5                  21.5
Water Storage Tanks                             21.7           NA                    21.7
Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes                   18.9          18.5                  18.8
Overall ERR, %                   26.6          26.5                  26.6
- 62 -



4.15   The economic value of the project benefits has been calculated by evaluating incremental outputs
and inputs at economic prices and, in the case of nontraded commodities, by using a standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.9. Economic costs have been calculated from total project costs, including physical
contingencies, with the local costs components being adjusted by the SCF and excluding taxes and duties.
Economic price derivations are presented in Table 4.7. The life of the project facilities is taken as 20 years
except for local/minor schemes which is taken as 25 years.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
4.16   The project ERR is robust and not very sensitive to variations in the project costs or benefits. It is
highly unlikely that unfavorable developments would reduce the project ERR to opportunity cost of capital
which is taken as 12 percent. Switching values have been computed to determine the effects of deviations
from the main assumptions on the economic viability of the subproject models: i.e., the value of the
variables tested which would reduce the present values of the net incremental benefits to zero when
discounted at oppotunity cost of capital of 12 percent. The analysis shows that in all cases reduction in
benefits are more sensitive than increase in costs. The results indicate that the ERR for the models would
fall to 12 percent if the cost increased by more than 255 percent for NWFP, 244 percent for FATA and
254 percent for the combined model or the benefits decreased by more than 61 percent in NWFP and
combined models and by more than 59 percent in FATA as summarized below:
Switching Values at Present Discount Rate (Rs. Million)
Project/subproject              Total Costs                  Net Incremental Benefit
........... Rs, million  ........................ ...Rs, million ......
Base value   Switching   Change, %   Base value   Switching  Change, %
l  l   I  value                               value
NWFP            867        2,211        255        2,211        867        -0.61
FATA             87         212         244         212         87        -0.59
Overall Project     954        2,423       254        2,423        954        -0.61
4.17   Risk Analysis. Various risk analyses have been carried out to test the different possible scenarios,
such as institutional, implementation, financial and sustainability, etc. Inadequate use of farm inputs and
ineffective agricultural and water management extension services might reduce the expected cropping
intensity and crop yields. The project might take longer time to form FOs thereby delaying and prolonging
completion of project's civil works and generation of benefits. In addition, delays in the recruitment of
consultants would delay project start-up and the mismanagement in civil works contracts thereby increasing
the investment costs and delaying projects benefits. Ineffective FOs to manage and sustain the irrigation
systems combined with low cost recovery, particularly the collection of water charges, would threaten the
sustainability of the irrigation facilities thereby reducing project benefits as well as incurring unnecessary
rehabilitation investments. The results of the analyses indicate that in all cases ERR of NWFP, FATA and
for the combined model are still above the opportunity capital cost of 12 percent, as summarized below:
- 63 -



ERR (%) Response to Various Values
Scenarios            NWFP           FATA           Whole Project
Base case                     26.6           26.5              26.6
Total costs (+20%)             23.2          23.2              23.2
Incremental benefits (-30%)    20.2          20.3              20.1
Benefits lag by one year      22.6           22.6              22.5
Benefits lag by two years      19.5          19.6              19.5
Increase costs by 20% and
decrease benefits by 30%       17.2          17.4              17.2
- 64 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Table 4.1 Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
...... as of Oct 2000
-eepe                   U       Fnnea   Fennmie
Outputs:
Kharif crops
Oilseeds                Rslkg        12.00     10.80
Vegetables              Rs/kg         2.75      2.48
Maize                  Rs/kg          5.65      5.09
Sunflower               Rs/kg        12.50     11.25
Tobacco                 Rs/kg        28.70     25.83
Kh. Fodder             Rs/kg          0.50      0.45
Rabi crops
Wheat                   Rsikg         7.35      7.90
R. Fodder               Rslkg         0.55      0.50
Potato                 Rs/kg          2.25      2.03.
Oilseeds               Rs/kg         12.29     11.06
Vegetables              Rstkg         3.00      2.70
Pulses (Gram)          Rs/kg          9.50      8.55
Perenlal crops
Sugarcane               Rsikg         0.77      0.84
Orchards                Rslkg         2.60      2.34
By-Products
Wheatstraw             Rs/kg          1.31      1.18
Inputs:
Seeds
Kharif crops
Oilseeds               .Rslkg        15.00     13.50
Vegetables              Rs/kg       900.00    810.00
Maize                  Rs/kg          9.82      8.84
Sunf1ower               Rsr7g        18.75     16.88
Tobacco                 Rslkg        67.45     60.70
Kh. Fodder             Rslkg         12.00     10.80
Pulses (Gram)          Rstkg         14.25     12.83
Rabi crops
Wheat                   Rslkg         9.19      8.27
R. Fodder              Rs/kg         75.00     67.50
Potato                 Rs/kg          6.25      5.63
Oilseeds                Rsikg        15.98     14.38
Vegetables              Rs/Acre    1,100.00    990.00
Perenial crops
Sugarcane               Rs/Acre    2,700.00  2,430.00
Orchards                Plants/yr    1,100.00    990.00
Fertilizersimanures
Nitrogen (N)           Rs/Nut.kg     19.63     15.65
Phosphorus (P)         Rs/Nut.kg     25.65     27.26
Potash (K)             RslNut.kg      6.83     14.42
Farm Yard Manure       Trolley      600.00    540.00
Pesticides (materdals & application)
Wheat                   Rs/Ac       667.17    600.45
Vegetables              RslAc       400.00    360.00
Sugarcane               Rs/Ac       370.65    333.59
Labor
Tractor Labor           Rs/Hour     150.00    135.00
Manual Labour          Rs/Day        65.00     48.75
Purchased Groundwater   Rs/Hour     120.00    108.00
- 65 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Table 4.2 Net Production Values Based on Full CroD Budqets
(000 Rs)
CrODS                     F;nanc;l                         EconomiC
Without    With                Without        With
Project   Project              Project      Project
(present)  (future)            (present)    (future)
Vegetables               17,807    36,504                 16,026       32,853
Maize                   159,030   203,814               143,127       183,433
Sunflower                 4,421     13,364                 3,979       12,028
Tobacco                 122,501   141,967               110,251       127,770
Kh. Fodder                7,054    11,886                  6,349       10,697
Wheat                   229,697   261,152               246,809       280,607
R.Fodder                 15,910    28,110                 14,319       25,299
Potato                   16,041    24,541                 14,437       22,087
Oilseeds                 23,371    28,979                21,034        26,081
Vegetables                8,033    19,608                  7,229       17,647
Pulses (Gram)             8,606      9,037                 7,746        8,133
Sugarcane               117,735   147,598               128,738       161,390
Orchards                 41,704    54,288                37,534        48,859
Table 4.3    Net Cros Production Values (at nominal Drices)
(Rs Million)
Prasent                  Wu;    olUt                  W   PCO;eC
Project/   Total     Cropping Net      Total    Cropping Net       Total    Cropping Net
sub-project  Cropped   Intensity  Production Cropping Intensity  Production  Cropping Intensity  Production
sub-project Area (Ha)  (%)   Value    (Ha)    1%)       Value     (Ha)    (%)       Value
a. Economic Values
NWFP         295,746    164%   677.23  286,190    159%      667.24  312,361    173%    856.66
FATA          35,274    167%    80.34   33,917    161%       80.12   36,632    174%    100.23
Overall      331,020    165%   757.58  320,108    159%      747.36  348,994    173%    956.89
b. Finacial Values
NWFP         295,746    164%   690.22  286,190    159%      680.10  312,361    173%    878.60
FATA          35,274    167%    81.69   33,917    161%       81.37   36,632    174%    102.24
Overall      331,020    165%   771.91  320,108    159%      761.47  348,994    173%    980.85
- 66 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Manaaement Prolect
Table 4.4 Economic Analysis bV Sub-Prolect Areas
(Rs Million)
NWFP Suibrolect             EArA  SP hroiect            Who'e Proiect
Total    Total    Nt        Total   Total    Net        Total   Total   Net
Years   Costs       efits  Incremental Costs   Benefits  Incremental  ot    t   Incremental
Coss  enfis   enfis      oss     enfiBe nefits              enefitss Benefits
Year-1      54.61    11.35     (43.27)   11.97    1.33    (10.64)  66.59   12.68    (53.91)
Year-2     121.60    11.35    (110.26)  24.45     1.33    (23.12) 146.05   12.68   (133.38)
Year-3     396.33    11.35  . (384.99)   26.68    1.33    (25.35) 423.01   12.68   (410.34)
Year-4     440.90    11.35    (429.56)  29.02     1.33    (27.69) 469.92   12.68   (457.25)
Year-5     241.26    97.57    (143.70)  26.21     9.54    (16.67) 267.47  107.11    (160.37)
Year-6       5.71    190.48    184.77    1.13    18.47     17.35    6.84  208.95    202.11
Year-7       5.71    295.61    289.90    1.13    29,49     28.36    6.84  325.10    318.26
Year-8       5.71    410.16    404.45    1.13    41.55     40.42    6.84  451.71    444.87
Year-9       5.71    536.06    530.35    1.13    54.88     53.75    6.84  590.93    584.10
Year-10      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-1i      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-12      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-13      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-14      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-15      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-16      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-17      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-18      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-19      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
Year-20      5.71    675.74    670.03    1.13    69.76     68.63    6.84  745.50    738.66
ERR           26.6%                      26.5%                     26.6%
Benefits which accrue early, assumed to be 50% savings in the O&M
of distributary/minors, are attributed to Change Management
- 67 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Manacement Project
Table 4.5: Economic Analysis by Investments (On-Farm Improvements) in Subproject Areas
(Rs Million)
Investment Incremental Total    Watercourse, Watercourse, Water    Net  Inc.  Net
Years    Costs     O&M        Costs    Canal       Barani      Storage  Benefits  Benefits
Crrigation    Irrigation    Tanks
A. Watercourses/Water Storage Tanks -- NWFP
Year-i        10.46       -      10.46         -           -        -         -     (10.46)
Year-2       37.42        -      37.42         -           -        -         -     (37.42)
Year-3      101.66        -     101.66         -           -        -         -    (101.66)
Year-4       161.80      (0.63)  161.17        -           -                        (161.17)
Year-5       109.65     (1.58)  108.07        16.58       8.63      3.72    28.92   (79.15)
Year-6                  (2.63)   (2.63)      34.03       17.69     7.43    59.15    61.78
Year-7                  (2.63)   (2.63)      53.70       27.83    11.53    93.06    95.69
Year-8                  (2.63)   (2.63)      74.33       38.45    15.62   128.40   131.03
Year-9                  (2.63)   (2.63)      95.98       49.55    19.71   165.24   167.87
Year-10                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-11                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-12                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-13                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-14                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-15                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-16                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-17                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-18                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-19                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
Year-20                 (2.63)   (2.63)      118.70      61.17    23.80   203.66   206.29
ERR                 25.56%
B. Watercourses - FATA
Year-I         -                   -           -           -        -         -        -
Year-2         0.29               0.29         -           -        -         -       (0.29)
Year-3        4.06        -       4.06         -           -        -         -       (4.06)
Year-4         6.89     (0.03)    6.86         -           -        -         -       (6.86)
Year-5         6.28     (0.07)    6.21         0.30       0.61       -       0.91    (5.30)
Year-6         -        (0.11)   (0.11)       0.61         1.26     -        1.86     1.97
Year-7                  (0.11)   (0.11)        0.95        1.99     -        2.94     3.05
Year-8                  (0.11)   (0.11)        1.32       2.74      -        4.06     4.17
Year-9                  (0. 11)   (0.11)       1.70       3.54               5.23     5.34
Year-10                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-11                 (0.11)   (0.11)       2.09        4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-12                 (0.11)   (0.11)       2.09        4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-13                  (0.11)   (0.11)       2.09       4.36               6.46     6.57
Year-14                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36               6.46     6.57
Year-15                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-16                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36       -       6.46     6.57
Year-17                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-18                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-19                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36      -        6.46     6.57
Year-20                 (0.11)   (0.11)        2.09       4.36       -       6.46     6.57
ERR                 22.08%
- 68 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Management Prolect
Table 486: Economic Anatvsis bv Investments (Off-Farm Channels) In Suborolect Areas
(Rs Million)
layasto,eat.costa         IocameaetaLO&M                     Incremental-Beaafits      Not I---t -3aallit
Branch   Disty    Local    Branch   Disty    Local            Branch   Disty    Local    Branch   Disty    Local
Canal    Canal    Minor    Canal   Canal    Minor    Tot      Canal   Canal    Minor    Canal    Canal    Minor
lmDrov.   mProv.  Imrriation  ImDrov.  Improv.  Imrriqabon  Costs   Imonrv.  lmProv.  Irrinaton  Imrov.  Immrov.  Inrriation
A. Branch Canals. Distributary Canals and Local Minor Irrigatlon Schemes - NWFP
Year-1       2.49     6.28                                         8.77               * -             (2.49)   (6.28)     -
Year-2      19.84    28.31     6.52      .               (0.03)   54.64      .                       (19.84)  (28.31)   (6.49)
Year-3      18.70    69.29   189.09      -        -      (0.98)  276.10      -        -              (18.70)  (69.29)  (188.11)
Year4       18.70    63.02   187.53      -        -      (1.92)  267.33      -        -        -     (18.70)  (63.02)  (185.62)
Year-5      18.42    15.75    94.15      -        .      (3.03)  125.30    18.29    24.82    14.19    (0.13)    9.06   (76.94)
Year-6                                  3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30    37.22    50.48    32.28    33.78    43.60    35.31
Year-7                                  3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30    57.89    78.24    55.07    54.45    71.36    58.09
Year-8                                  3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30    79.24   106.91    84.27    75.80   100.02    87.29
Year-9                                  3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   101.29   136.50   121.68    97.85   129.61   124.71
Year-10                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-11                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-12                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-13                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   17284
Year-14                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-15                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-16                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   17264
Year-17                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-18                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-19                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
Year-20                                 3.44     6.89    (3.03)    7.30   124.06   167.05   169.61   120.62   160.17   172.64
ERR                  47.7%    34.4%    18.9%
S. Branch Canals, Dlsilbutary Canals and Local Minor Irrigation Schemes - FATA
Inv_stmsnLCz ts            I     n    M                     ihcementaLEtBnets        fjt In--fll -rum
Branch   Disty    Local    Branch   Disty    Local            Branch   Disty    Local    Branch   Disty    Local
Canat   Canal    Minor    Canal   Canal    Miror       ota    Canal   Canal    Minor    Canal    Canal    Minor
Improv.  Improv.  Irrigation  Improv.  Improv.  Irrigation    Improv.  Improv.  Irrigabon  Improv.  Improv.  Irrigation
Year-1        *       1.26      -        -        -        -       1.26               -          -             (1.26)
Year-2        *       9.13     8.82      -        -      (0.04)   17.90      -        -        -        -      (9.13)   (8.77)
Year-3        *       7.88     9.70      -        .      (0.09)   17.48      -                     .           (7.88)   (9.61)
Year-4                        2 -  20.28  -       -      (0.19)   20.08      -        -        -        -        -     (20.08)
Year-5        *               20.28                      (0.30)   19.98      *       5.60     1.70      -       5.60   (18.28)
Year-                                    -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      11.41     3.87      -      10.12     4.17
Year-7                                   -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      18.62     6.61      -      17.32     6.90
Year-8                                   -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      26.05    10.11      -      24.76    10.41
Year-9                                   -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      33.71    14.60      -      32.42    14.90
Year-10                                  -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-1l                                  -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-12                                  -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-13                                  -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-14                                          1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-15                                          1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-16                                  -       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-17                                  *       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-18                                  *       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-19                                          1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
Year-20                                  *       1.29    (0.30)    1.00      -      41.62    20.35      -      40.33    20.65
- 69 -



Pakistan
NWFP On Farm Water Management Project
Table 4.7: Economic Price Derivation
PARITY (I)                                  [U         [El         [E        [EJ       II]      [1]            [1]       II]
Unit    Wheat      Rice       S/Cane     S/Cane  Maize (5) Urea (6)   DAP(7)    MOP(8)
PROJECTED WORLD MARKET PRICE (YEAR 2000)
In 1990 constant dollars (2)   USS/MT    133.90      263.60      184.10    184.10   104.60   108.80       171.50     102.10
Adj factor to 2000 dollars (3)              1.07        1.07       1.07      1.07      1.07     1.07        1.07       1.07
In constant 2000 dollars       US$/MT    143.27       282.05     196.99    196.99   111.92    116.42      183.51     109.25
QUALITY ADJUSTMENT              %           85.00      105.00     100.00     97.00    90.00    100.00      100.00      100.00
WORLDMARKETEQUIVALENT  USS/MT    121.78                296.15      196.99    191.08   100.73    116.42     183.51     109.25
International sbipping and insurance USS/MT  27.00    (35.00)     37.00    (37.00)   29.00    50.00        50.00      50.00
CIF/FOB Karachi                 USS/MT    148.78       261.15     233.99    154.08   129.73    166.42      233.51
EXCHANGERATE(4)                 Rs/USS      51.05       51.05      51.05     51.05    51.05    51.05        51.05      51.05
CIF/FOB Karachi                 Rs/MT    7,595.32   13,331.94   11,945.04   7,865.65  6,622.71  8,495.54    11,920.43    8,129.56
Portcharges                    Rs/MT       150.00    (150.00)    220.00   (220.00)  319.00   212.39       298.01     203.24
Storageandhandling             Rs/MT      314.00    (314.00)    470.00   (470.00)  470.00    100.00       100.00     100.00
Transport to mill              Rs/MT       63.00    (120.00)     800.00   (800.00) 1,352.00   120.00      120.00      120.00
PROCESSED VALUE                 Rs/MT    8,122.32   12,747.94   13,435.04  6,375.65  8,763.71  8,927.93    12,438.44   8,552.80
Processing ratio               %           90.00       62.00       8.50      8.50    90.00    100.00      100.00      100.00
Processing costs               RstMT       162A5     (254.96)   3,000.00  (3,000.00)  150.00     -           -          -
WHOLESALE VALUE                 Rs/MT    7,472.54    7,648.77    1,396.98    286.93  8,037.34  8,927.93    12,438.44    8,552.80
Local marketingtransport       Rs/MT      425.00    (425.00)    400.00   (400.00)  565.00   100.00        100.00      100.00
FARMGATE PRICE (9)              Rs/MT    7,897.54    7,223.77    1,796.98   (113.07) 8,602.34  9,027.93    12,538.44   8,652.80
ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICE   Rs/KG              7.90        7.22       1.80      (0.11)    8.60     9.03       12.54       8.65
FINANCIALFARMGATEPRICE   Rsa/KG              7.35        7.29       0.77      0.77      5.65     7.20       11.80       4.10
Value ofN in Case of Fertilizers                                                    ECO         19.63       27.26       14.42
FIN         15.65       25.65       6.83
Av. for Sugarcane   0.84
(1) Parity: [1] Import [E] Export
(2) World Bank price forecasts dated May 2000 for the year 2005
(3) Inflated by MUV Index (average for 1995 and 1996, base 1990)
(4) Based on World Bank Office Memorandum dated 18 December 1996 re Exchange Rates and Price Contingencies for Project Analysis
in Pakistan (Value for 1999)
(5) Assumed to be hybrids. Economic price of local varieties - Rs6.3/kg - financial price (see footnote (10)) adjusted by SCF
(6) 46% nitrogen; (7) 18% nitrogen and 46Y% phosphorus; (8) 60% potassium
(9) Bunch farm gate price
- 70 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
June 30
Year 1I Year 2  I Year 3  i Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.5        3.4       9.7       11.0       6.5
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total ProjectCosts           1.5        3.4       9.7       11.0       6.5        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              1.5        3.4       9.7       11.0       6.5        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.1       2.4        6.5       7.2        4.2
Government                 0.4       0.5        1.1        1.1       0.6
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.4        0.5       1.1        1.1        0.7
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.5        2.1       2.7        1.7
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.5        3.4       9.7       11.0        6.5       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 71 -



Annex 5A: Financial Management
NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project
Current Accounting Systems of Implementing Agencies
5.01   The provincial government accounts are maintained on a cash basis according to a chart of
accounts prescribed by the Auditor General of Pakistan. The books of accounts are written up manually
and are not computerized. Some of the common accounting records include the cash book, stock register
and a summary statement for operating expenses. In addition to the main cash book, a columnar cash book
is maintained which contains various columns with preprinted government account codes related to various
activities. The present system of maintenance of accounts is not capable of generating reports on costs
according to components and sub-components of the project. It also has no provision to bring into the
project books of account the value of contributions in kind from farners which needs to be reflected in the
total project cost. An intemal control system also needs to be in place to clearly define and document the
accounting methodology to be followed for recording individual transactions.
Accounting Staff
5.02   Although the Accounts Officers and staff have been exposed to maintenance of special accounts of
donors in prior projects, yet they are not accounting professionals nor have they had prior training in
accrual or computerized accounting. They need to be exposed to the new reporting format designed by the
Bank to comply with project management report (PMR) based disbursements. This type of reporting
would be easier with computerized accounting. So, the staff of the implementing agency will need external
professional support to set up and maintain computerized project accounting systems and to generate
quarterly reports as required by the Bank. Initial orientation and training of Project Accounting Specialists
and Govemment staff would be completed by June 30. 2001 and refresher training by August 31. 2001.
Proposed Arrangements
5.03 Financial management system and financial manual. The project's financial management
procedures as applicable to the national project have been documented in a draft Financial Manual (FM) .
This would be customnized to the needs of NWFP-OFWM project and would be adopted before October 31,
2001 by the OFWM Directorate. The FM would cover: (a) flow of funds; (b) financial and accounting
policies; (c) accounting system and internal control mechanisms including information flow and flow of
documents; (d) chart of accounts; (v) financial reporting (including formats of PMRs); (d) auditing
arrangements; (e) budgeting; (f) organization and staffing for financial management functions; and (g)
terms of reference of external auditors. The FM would be periodically updated and improved based on
implementation experience.
5.04 Project accounting support. The project provides funding for financial management guidance and
support to the implementing agency. This is being accomplished by the M&E Wing hiring a professional
accounting firm as project accounting specialists (PAS) which shall place the required accounting
professional in each unit. The recruitment of PAS is in advanced stage. The PAS team will have
responsibility for the following:
(a) Provide a professional accountant for each implementing unit. The person placed in the NWFP
provincial M&E Wing would also be responsible for the accounts of the components in the line
departments and in the FATADC. These professionals will provide guidance and support to the
departmental accounting staff to set up and maintain a computerized project accounting system to
generate financial and procurement reports as required by IDA and the Government.
- 72 -



(b) Provide input for updating the financial manual based on implementation experience and ensure
that proper internal controls are in place.
(c) Train the departmental staff on the job, on a regular basis, using the professionals posted at site.
(d) Advise and support the departmental staff in preparing periodic project financial statements for
each unit, consolidating these at the total project level, and providing annual accounts to the
external and govermment auditors.
(e) Guide the departmental staff in facilitating government and external audit and providing
information to IDA and the government departments as required.
Hardware and Project Accounting Software
5.05   The project provides for acquiring necessary hardware, software, and printers for the financial
management teams. The proposed credit will provide funds for acquiring suitable software and technical
support for installing a financial management system in each implementing unit with appropriate chart of
accounts. The software providers will also impart on-site-training for the team members who will be
handling the project accounts. There will be sufficient provision for continued technical and
troubleshooting support for the duration of the project. An integrated project accounting and management
information system (PAMIS) which has been developed as part of a pilot program in the South Asia region
of the Bank would be customized to the needs of this project and would facilitate double entry bookkeeping,
generation of PMRs as required by IDA, and linking of physical details with financial transactions.
Project Accounting System
5.06   The designated departmental accounting staff under the guidance of the PAS team would be
responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. They would maintain books of
accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements/PMRs and ensure timely audit of
financial statements. The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(a) Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by the joint team of PAS and departmental
staff on double entry bookkeeping principle. Project accounts would be maintained using PAMIS.
(b) Project accounting would cover all sources (including beneficiary contributions in cash or kind)
and all uses of project funds. Disbursements made directly by the IDA or the beneficiaries
(farmers) would also be included in the project accounts. Funds received from various sources
would be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements.
(c) An identifiable trial balance for the project capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other
payments under the project would be prepared. A chart of accounts for the project would be
incorporated in the FM which conforns to the classification of expenditures and sources of funds
indicated in the project documents (project implementation plan, project appraisal document,
COSTAB model). The chart of accounts enables data to be captured in a manner to facilitate
financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components and subcomponents; (ii)
expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories; (iv) implementing agencies.
(d) Project financial statements and PMRs would be fully based on the project books of accounts and
substantially generated from the PAWIS.
(e) Physical informnation on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to financial costs
would be maintained as part of the project financial management system.
- 73 -



Internal Controls
5.07  Internal control mechanisms would include the following:
(a) operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets;
(b) adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project. These policies and
procedures are included in the FM. These would include identification of expenditures which can
be charged to the project and the categories under which the expenditures would be charged;
(c) at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for
ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation,
levels of authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
These policies and procedures are given in the FM and would be reviewed and updated
periodically;
(d) establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, including concurrent audit; and
(e) establishment and operation of policies and procedures governing the transfer of
funds/reimbursement of expenditures to the field offices and accounting of expenditures by the
implementing agencies (these policies are outlined in the FM). These include aspects such as
determination of appropriate costs of activities which will be carried out; payment of expenses
incurred by the field offices; the limnits for expenditures; time-scale for submission of expenditures
and adjustment of advances; supporting documentation and verification procedures for such
expenditures; information to be provided (including physical information wherever necessary),
standard formats for providing this information; and actions in the event of defaults.
Project Management Reports
5.08   Ouarterly: Initially, simplified PMRs would be generated and after completion of installation of
the computerized PAMIS system, the full set of PMRs would be generated and produced for each
implementing agency and for the whole project. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e.,
summaries rather than transactional details) and would be used for project management. The reports would
include: (a) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including
sources and application of funds (by components and expenditure categories) and key physical parameters
and unit rates for selected key items; (b) expenditures by disbursement categories; and (c) forecasts for the
next two quarters. The format of these reports conformiing to the Bank's LACI/FMI requirements have
been agreed during negotiations.
5.09   Annuallv: Audited project financial statements (PFS) would be submitted to the IDA. PFS would
include: (a) a summary of funds received (showing funds received from the provincial government (or
federal government in the case of FATADC), IDA and beneficiaries separately), and a summary of
expenditures shown under the main project headings (i.e., project components) and by main categories of
expenditures; (b) a balance sheet showing accumulated funds of the project, bank balances, other assets of
the project, and liabilities, if any; (c) special account statements; and (d) statement of expenditure (SOE)
listing. The audited PFS would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year (i.e., not later than December 31 for the fiscal year ended on June 30 of each year). Audit opinion to
be tracked in IDA/Bank's Audit Report Compliance System will compose: project/SOE; special account
(NWFP); and special account (FATADC).
- 74 -



Auditing Arrangements
5.10   The accounts and financial statements of the project would be eventually audited by the Auditor
General of Pakistan (following GOP's implementing of the new accounting model, or NAM, and IDA
reviewing the situation to use AGP as auditors), but initially by a firm of chartered accountants
(independent external auditors acceptable to IDA). The external auditors shall commence audit by
September 30 and submit the audited accounts and report before December 31 every year. The annual
project financial statements audited by the firm of chartered accountants would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of GOP's fiscal year. The terms of reference and qualifications of the finn of
chartered accountants would be reviewed by the IDA. The cost of the firm of chartered accountants would
be eligible for financing from the IDA Credit. The Bank's Guidelines for selection of consultants would
apply to the engagement of the finm of chartered accountants.
5.11   The audit by the firn of chartered accountants would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of
the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred by all implementing
agencies). The audit will be carried out in accordance with international standards of auditing, and will
include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. The auditor
will be provided such information and access to project-related documents and records at all implementing
agencies, which may be required by the auditor for the purposes of the audit. Terms of reference for the
firm of chartered accountants would be included in the financial manual.
Selection of Accountants and Auditors
5.12   Selection of the auditing firm will be done through national competitive bidding (NCB) and the
evaluation done by a special selection committee of GONWFP. Project accounting specialists have been
identified and will be selected on individual basis prior to the Board date and their recruitment will be
finalized before the project implementation commences.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
5.13   Financial management system. The design of the computerized financial management system is
almost complete. A draft financial management manual documenting the financial management system was
prepared for the national project and is being customized for this project. The Borrower would ensure that
a customizedfinancial manualfor the NWFP project would be prepared and adopted by October 31,
2001, and a computerized project accounting and management information system, satisfactory to IDA,
will be made fully operational not later than June 30, 2002.
Disbursement Arrangements
5.14  Initially, the disbursements for the project will be under the traditional method through two
separate special accounts (one each for NWFP and FATADC) that would be opened with the National
Bank of Pakistan. Both special accounts under the project would be operated by two signatories. The
following action plan has been agreed with the government to enable it to switch to PMR based
disbursements by September 30, 2002.
Sr. No.                             Action                                 Target Date
I   Nominate counterpart departmental staff (Accountants).            March 31, 2001
2   Finalize contract for appointing three Project Accounting Staff (PAS)  June 7, 2001
3   Initial orientation/training of PAS and departmental staff (including AG Office  June 30, 2001
staff)
- 75 -



4   Install computerized PAMIS                                         June 30, 2001
5   Adopt financial manual                                             July 31, 2001
6   Refresh training of project accounting staff                      August 3, 2001
7   Submit first (QE September 30, 2001) transitional quarterly PMRs. Report    November 15,
Nos l-A, 3-A, 3-B, 3-C and 3-D incorporating transactions effective July 1,  2001
2001
8   Submit books of accounts and financial statements to the Auditor General's  September
office for audit.                                                    30/year
9   Submit annual audit report to IDA                                December 3 1/year
10  Full transfer from manual accounting system to computerization (PAMIS fully  June 30, 2002
operational)
11  Switching to PMR based disbursement and provision of full set of PMRs  September 30,
2002
- 76 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
6.01   The Borrower and the implementing agencies, OFWM Directorate of NWFP's Department of
Agriculture, FATADC, NWFP Irrigation DepartmentlFIDA and FOs (at the watercourse/ distributary
level) would be capable of carrying out procurement and contract administration envisaged under the
proposed project. These entities have been involved in similar previous Bank-financed projects. Staff from
most of the implementing agencies have already completed or are expected to complete formal training on
Bank procurement procedures before project effectiveness. This trained staff will serve as focal point
within their respective agencies on procurement related matters during the course of the project. The
agencies would also be assisted by the project implementation consultants and additional training, if
needed, would be given during the course of implementation.
6.02   The selection of major consultants has been made. The Bank has cleared the negotiated contract
for the PICs. The negotiated contract for the project supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation
consultants was commented upon by the Bank but is not likely to be processed further because the Federal
Coordination Unit of MINFAL (the client) will not provide consultancy support to at least two of the four
provinces; viz., Balochistan and the NWFP. The NWFP will use its existing M&E Wing to carry out
activities envisaged in this contract. Similarly, procurement of project accounting support consultants is
also not likely to process further, as the GONWFP decided to procure individual consultants for this kind
of activity.
6.03   The development of FOs and FWUAs/WUAs, and building their capacity and ownership is the
main objective of the project. Hence, in procurement of construction material and civil works, they would
be represented in the procurement committees which make recommendations for award of such contracts.
6.04   All procurement of works and goods financed by the World Bank would be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995,
revised January and August 1996 and in September 1997 and January 1999). The consulting services
financed by the World Bank would be selected in accordance with procedures set forth in the Guidelines
for Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). In case of conflict between the Bank's procurement procedures and any national rules and
regulations, Bank's procurement procedures would take precedence. To address shortcomings identified in
the past, in the national procurement procedures, the government has specifically agreed that:
(a) invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at
least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
(b) bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
(c) foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders in the bidding process;
(d) bidding shall not be restricted to preregistered firms;
(e) qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
(f) bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
- 77 -



(g) bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of the Association;
(h) before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association's prior concurrence shall be
obtained;
(i) bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit prices and not on the
basis of a composite schedule of rates (CSR);
(j) contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
(k) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; and
(1) post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Specific procurement arrangements summarized in Table A, are as follows:
6.05   Works: Civil works under the project (watercourse, distributary, and branch canal improvements,
FO/FWUA offices, storage tanks, and local/minor irrigation schemes) involve numerous small contracts
widely dispersed over the project area. Such contracts are unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders
and, therefore, International Competitive Bidding may not be suitable. These contracts would fall into the
following broad categories:
6.06   On-farm watercourse improvement and storage tanks category. The watercourse improvements
and construction of water storage tanks, representing about 33 percent by value of all works, would be
carried out through community participation as a collaborative effort between the community organizations
(FOs, FWUAs, WUAs), OFWM Directorate/FATADC, and technical assistance teams. FOs/FWUAs/
WUAs would provide skilled and unskilled labor and contribute 25 percent percent, by value, of the total
construction material in kind. Construction material for these small works will be procured through
national shopping procedures under one of the following arrangements: FOs/FWUAs/WUAs may either
choose to (a) provide their share of the construction material, and ask government to contribute its share of
the material; or (b) procure all construction material themselves and receive payment in installments for the
cost of government's share. Further explanation for both the cases is provided below:
* Regarding (a), in case the government is to provide it share of material, it would be procured by
government staff through national shopping procedures, with full and active participation of
FOs/FWUAs/WUAs at all stages of the procurement process. The OFWM staff, FOs/FWUAs/
WUAs and the project consultants would carry out six monthly surveys of the prevailing market prices
of construction material in the field office area. A comparison of these prices with the actual prices
paid by the government would be prepared and provided to IDA on a quarterly basis.
* Regarding (b), if the government is to pay the cost of its share, the FOs/FWUAs/WUAs would procure
the material through national shopping procedures and get paid for the actual cost of material in
workable installments linked to progress of work. The total payment of the government's share for
each scheme would be limited to a pre-established aggregate ceiling amounting to 75 percent of the
total estimated cost of material. The total estimated cost of material for each scheme would be
calculated on the basis of prevailing market prices of construction material in each field office area and
would be jointly verified by OFWM staff, FOs/FWUAs/WtUAs and the project consultants. The
OFWM staff, FOs/FWUAs/WUAs and the project consultants would carry out six monthly surveys of
the prevailing market prices of construction material in the field office area. A comparison of these
- 78 -



prices with the actual prices of material procured by the FOs/FWUAs/WUAs would be prepared and
provided to IDA on a quarterly basis. The OFWM staff would certify the quality and quantity of
construction material and satisfactory completion of work at each stage, as a condition for payment of
each installment.
6.07   The supervisory engineers from the M&E Wing (supervisory consultants) would spot-check the
quality of works during construction of a minimum of 20 percent of works by value and 100 percent after
completion and before submission of final withdrawal application. The supervisory consultants would also
verify and certify quantities and quality of the material procured and civil works completed.
6.08 Distributary canal improvement, and minor irrigation schemes category. Distributary improvement
works and construction of FO/FWUA offices (about 16 percent by value of all works) and local/minor
schemes (about 45 percent by value of all works) would be carried out through national competitive
bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA. The FOsIFWUAs would be involved in planning and
design, as well as contributing in the construction of these works with the assistance of technical support
teams.
6.09   Branch canal improvement category. The branch canal improvement works, representing about 6
percent by value of all works, would also be carried out through NCB procedures, acceptable to IDA.
Their construction schedule would vary depending on the progress in transfer of irrigation management to
FOs/FWUAs at the distributary/minor level.
6.10   Goods. Procurement of goods involves vehicles, construction of materials for watercourses, water
storage tanks and other on-farm improvement works, office and field equipment, fiunmiture, and
miscellaneous items. Of these categories of Goods, vehicles will be procured through intemational
competitive bidding (ICB). In addition, goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 per contract would
also be procured through ICB procedures. Contract packages would be designed to attract international
bidders. Qualified domestic bidders competing under ICB would be eligible for domestic preference.
6.11   The remaining goods expected to be procured under the project include mainly: construction of
materials for watercourses, water storage tanks and other on-farm improvement works; office, survey and
flow measuring equipment; furniture and machinery/implements for use of FOs/FWUAs. These would be
procured in numerous small packages as and when FOs/FWUAs are established over the span of the
project. The project implementation consultants would act as procurement agents. The project
management will be responsible for ensuring that agreed procedures are followed. Such goods (other than
vehicles and construction materials) estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $570,000 may be procured through NCB procedures, acceptable to IDA.
Goods (other than vehicles and construction materials) estimated to cost less than $10,000 per contract and
not exceeding $220,000 in aggregate may be procured through national shopping procedures.
Construction materials may be procured through community participation following national shopping
procedures.
6.12   Services. All consulting services requiring engagement of firms would be procured in accordance
with the quality and cost based selection (QCBS) method, except that services for implementation and
supervision of the project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under the method of selection based on consultants'qualifications (SBCQ). Individual consultants would
be procured in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section V of the Consultants' guidelines.
- 79 -



6.13   Training activities would involve small amounts and would be undertaken for the social
mobilization staff and community organizations. Government procedures in practice would be used for
carrying out these activities.
6.14   Miscellaneous. Administrative and operating expenditures would be according to the govemment
procedures.
Procurement methods (Table A)
6.15   For procurement of goods under ICB procedures, the Bank's standard bidding cocuments for
procurement of goods would be used. For procurement of goods and works under NCB procedures, model
bidding documents would be agreed with the Bank based on the format of the sample NCB bidding
documents being used on other Bank-financed projects in Pakistan. For procurement of consulting firms,
the Bank's standard request for proposal document would be used. Procurement documentation and record
keeping systems, satisfactory to the Association will be developed and adopted by the implementing
agencies, by December 31, 2001.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditur Category             JCB                          Fther      ; N.B.F, E         G
1. Works                            0.00           11.38          5.99         2.54        19.91
(0.00)          (8.05)        (3.95)       (0.00)     (12.00)
2. Goods                            0.50            0.66          6.00         0.00        7.16
(0.25)          (0.49)        (3.90)       (0.00)      (4.64)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          2.32         0.00        2.32
Consulting Services and            (0.00)          (0.00)        (2.32)       (0.00)       (2.32)
Training
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          2.66         0.00        2.66
Incr. administrative and           (0.00)          (0.00)        (2.39)       (0.00)       (2.39)
operating expenditure
Total                            0.50            12.04         16.97        2.54        32.05
(0.25)          (8.54)       (12.56)       (0.00)      (21.35)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 80 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant $nrkefss
EsXpendfture Categoy   OCBS    QaS    SFB    LCS       CQ     Other   N.S.F.  ToMtl Cost
A. Firms              2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      2.00
(2.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.00)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.08    0.00      0.08
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.00)   (0.08)
Total  2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.08    0.00      2.08
_  (2.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.00)   (2.08)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Setection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 81 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
6.16   Procurement planning. Prior to initiating any procurement of goods and works and consultants'
services, procurement arrangements and plans shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of para I of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. All procurement shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of para 1.
6.17   Works. The first NCB contract for works by each participating agency in each fiscal year and,
thereafter, all NCB contracts for works exceeding $200,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review by
IDA, in accordance with paras 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
6.18   Goods. All ICB contracts and the first NCB contract for goods by each participating agency in
each fiscal year would be subject to prior review by IDA, in accordance with paras 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.
6.19   Consultants' services. Contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost more than $100,000
equivalent per contract and, individual consultants contracts estimated to cost more than $50,000
equivalent per contract would be subject to prior review by IDA, in accordance with paras 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
6.20   Post review. All IDA-financed contracts which are not subject to prior review would be subject to
post review on sample basis. With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in para 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
:T reshold             Procurement             Prior Rview
Expenditure Category o(mS)                            Method     i AJS$)
1. Works
Civil works                Less than 200,000            NCB             First contract by each PA
in each FY
Above 200,000               NCB                  All contracts
2. Goods
Goods: Construction       Less than 200,000           Community                  None
materials for w/course,                            Participation/NS
tanks, etc.                 Above 200,000                                         All
Goods (including                                         ICB
vehicles)
Goods (other than          10,000 to 200,000                            First contract by each PA
construction materials                                  NCB                   in each FY
and vehicles)              Less than 10,000                                      None
Goods (other than                                        NS
construction materials
and vehicles)
- 82 -



3. Services
(Consulting Services)
Firms                      Above 100,000               QCBS                     All
Less than 100,000           SBCQ                     None
Individual Consultants      Above 50,000            IC Guidelines                All
_   Less than 50,000          IC Guidelines              None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 83 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
6.21   Initially, disbursements would be made under the traditional system and would be converted to the
new procedure of PMR based disbursements after two years. The target date is September 30, 2002.
The IDA credit of SDRs 16.6 million ($21.35 million equivalent) would be disbursed over a period of five
years. The final disbursement is anticipated to be made by June 30, 2006. Allocation of credit proceeds
by disbursement category and percentage financed are shown in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil works for:                        6.95                          60
(a) local minor irrigation
(b) distributary/minor canals              2.96                          70
(c) main/branch canals                     1.29                          80
2. (a) Goods: construction materials for   3.86                          65
watercourses, water storage tanks, and
other on-farm improvement works
2. (b) equipment, vehicles, and office     0.64               100 (foreignlex-factory local
furniture                                                            expenditure)
50 (items procured locally)
3. Consultants services and training       2.32                         100
4. Incremental administrative and          2.57                          90
operating costs                   _______
5. Unallocated                             0.76
Total credit amount: 21.35                 0.00
Goverment fnancin                          3.70
Farmers organizations financing            7.00
Total Project Costs                        32.05
|Total                                     32.05
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
6.22   The credit proceeds would be disbursed against certified statement of expenditures for: (a) civil
work contracts and goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) incremental staff salaries, allowances,
and operating costs, and training services; and (c) consultant contracts less than $100,000 in the case of
firms and contracts below $50,000 equivalent in the case of individual consultants. All other contracts
would be fully documented. Supporting documentation for statements of expenditure would be retained by
the project management and made available to IDA staff during supervision.
Special account:
6.23   To facilitate disbursements, two special accounts (one each for OFWM Directorate of NWFP and
FATADC) would be opened with the National Bank of Pakistan. All eligible expenditures would be funded
through these special accounts. The initial deposit into the special accounts would be $0.5 million OFWM
Directorate and $0.2 million for FATADC.
- 84 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Prect Schedule                                     Plnn"                        Achat
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      20                            37
First Bank mission (identification)             01/06/98                      01/04/98
Appraisal mission departure                      06/25/98                     06/25/98
Negotiations                                     11/30/98                     03/27/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/15/2001
Prepared by:
Federal Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (GOP); On-Farm Water
Management Directorate, Agriculture Department (in collaboration with Irrigation Departmnent) of
GONWFP, and Federally Administered Tribal Areas Development Corporation (GOP).
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (Trust Fund Number 029730)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Rashed ul Qayyum                  Task Team Leader, Sr. Agriculture Specialist
P.K. Subramanian                  Financial Management Specialist (Operations)
Masood Ahmad                      Irigation Engineer (former Task Team Leader)
Usman Qamar                       Sr. Irrigation Engineer
Herve Plusquellec                 Participatory Irrigation Engineering Specialist (Consultant)
Ahsan Ali                         Sr. Procurement Specialist
Zia Aljalaly/Asger Christensen    Social Development Specialists
Aziz Bouzaher                     Sr. Environmental Specialist
Anwar Ali Bhatti                  Disbursement Officer
Robert J. Saum/Ken Miller         Financial Management Specialists (Loans)
Akhtar Hamid/Muhanmmad Nawaz      Country Counsel
Tasnim Beg                        Financial Management Specialist
Altaf Iqbal                       Economist (Consultant)
T. Lohavisvapanich (FAO/CP)       Sr. Economist
Meena Munshi                      NRM Specialist
Ghulam Ali                        Progarm Assistant
Lilac Thomas                      Program Assistant
Andrea Ruiz-Esparza               Copy Editor
- 85 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
A project implementation plan (PIP) was prepared for the Fourth OFWM project by the Borrower (Federal
Coordinating Unit, MINFAL) during March-June 1999 period. It was appraised by the task team and was
found to be satisfactory. Agreements reached during negotiations in April 1999 were reflected in the draft
PIP in May/June 1999. The province specific PIP, i.e., a PIP for NWFP/FATA has been adapted from the
main PIP, and will be further modified by May 31, 2001 based on the final PAD (expected by April 15,
2001) as the 'NWFP OFWM Negotiations" with the Borrower were concluded on March 27, 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Social Assessment Report
Rapid Appraisal of Social and Environmental Issues: Back to office reports
Economic Analysis
Cost Tables
C. Other
Terms of reference for: PIP preparation consultants; M&E consultants; and accounting and external audit
consultants
*Including electronic files
- 86 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Arnount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Fnm Rev'd
P049791        1999 POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND                           0.00     90.00                             0.00     75.97       -1.69      0.00
P037835        1998 SOCIAL ACTION PRG II                               0.00    250.00                             0.00    126.36      38.65       0.00
P037834        1998 NORTHERN EDUCATION                                 0.00     22.80                             0.09     18.33      13.86       0.00
P010500        1998 NATIONAL DRAINAGE PR                               0.00    285.00                             0.00     188.25     92.50       0.00
P036015        1997 IMPR FIN REP & AUDIT                               0.00     28.80                             0.00     20.52      16.75       0.00
P010501       1997 PVT SECTOR GROUND WA                                0.00     56.00                            25.34      13.15     39.17       3.72
P039281        1996 GHAZI BAROTHA HYDROP                             350.00      0.00                             0.00    112.39      98.09      53.37
P034101        1990 TELECOM REG & PRIVAT                              35.00      000                             10.00      12.45     22.45      12.45
P010478        1996 NWFP COMMUNITY INFRA                               0.00     21.50                             0.00     10.41      12.86      12.7
P010482       1996 BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION & AGRI.            0.00     26.70                             0.00      6.87       8.48       3.28
P010481       1995 PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR                                0.00     24.90                             5.46      5.25      12.12       1.94
P010470       1995 FIN SECTOR DEEPENING & INTEGRATION                216.00      0.00                           188.03     19.56     207.39      12.07
P010458        1994 POWER SECT. DEV. PRO                             230.00      0.00                            20.00      17.31     37.31       0.00
Total:     831.00      80s.70                          248.92     626.82     597.95      99.22
- 87 -



PAKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commiited                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               ABAMCO                        0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00
1995               AES Lal Pir                  35.20    9.50    0.00    0.00   35.20    9.50    0.00    0.00
1996               AES Pak Gen                  17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88   17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88
1996               Atlas Inv Bank                3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Atlas Lease                   4.21    0.21    0.00    0.00    4.21    0.21      0.00    0.00
0                BRRIL                          0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         BRRIM                         0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995               BSJS Fund                     0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
1995               Bank of Khyber                1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               CDCPL                         0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1993/97            Crescent Greenwd              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Crescent IBank                9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96         D.G. Khan                     0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51      0.00    0.00
1998               Engro Asahi                  14.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/95/97         Engro Chemnical               7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00    7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00
1996               Engro Paktank                 9.04    0.00    0.00    3.77    9.04    0.00    0.00    3.77
1990/91/96         FIIB                          2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Fauji Cement                 22.40    5.00    0.00   17.50   22.40    5.00    0.00   17.50
1995               First Crescent                0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1994/96            First Leasing                 0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00
1995               First UDL                     0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1996               GulAhmed                     22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38   22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38
1988               Hala Spinning                 3.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.92    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991/95            IHFL                          0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1992/96            JSCL                          0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00
1995               Kohinoor                     20.00    6.30    0.00   24.40   20.00    6.30    0.00   24.40
1994/95/97         Maple Leaf                    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00
1985/92            Mari Gas                      2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Muslim Comm Bank              2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/94            NDLC                          4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00    4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Finance                  0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Leasing                  4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00    4.92    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               PACRA                         0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00
1994               PI&CL                         2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         PILCO                         0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1983/84/94         PPL                           2.61    0.00    0.00    1.95    2.61    0.00    0.00    1.95
1965/80/82/87/91/94/9 Packages                   9.07    2.50    0.00    1.25    9.07    2.50      0.00    1.25
5                  Pakistan Service              5.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Pakistan Unit Tr              0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00
1995               Prudential                    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40      0.00    0.00
1991               RUPAFIL                       1.24    0.00    0.31    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.31    0.00
1992               Regent Knitwear               5.83    0.00    0.00    2.80    5.83    0.00    0.00    2.80
1994               Rupafab                       5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Sarah Textiles                0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00
1993/96
Total Portfolio:      259.53    51.54   20.31   193.93  248.31   51.49   20.31  178.90
- 88 -



Approvals Pending Comrmitment
FY Approval       Corpany                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 89 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PAKISTAN: NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South       Low                       - :
Pakistan      Atia   income       Development diamond
Pnnutiaidn midi-vear (millions)                       134 A      1 329     7 417                  Life expectancy
GNP ner caoita (Atlas method. US$)                      450        440       410
GNP (Atlas malhod. UJSS billions)                      6 f         61 A A      5AA
Averag annua:l rowth. 199349.
Pnni,letion 1%1                                            4       1.9      1'9
Labor force 1%)                                         G2.9       2.9       2.3       NP                               Grary
ZQ  2,3      2,3 ~ per                                primar
Moat recat08Stimae tefsteat Ver availabi. 1993-991                                    capita                        pnrnimrnyns
POVattv 1% Of goouletion below national oovertv line)                                 capita
IirhAnnn""tifNrn (6 of lral oooualioni                             2P         31
Life exoactancv at birflt (vears)J                       62         62        60
Inflnt!nrtjlitv foer 1.000 tlive births.                 A1         75        77
thlfd ,nannemrltlnn f% of children under 5)              3B         51        43                Access to sate water
Access tlo lmroved: water source (% of DooWftion)        60         77        64
IllitearaVY 1 of oolatio a0oa * 15*)                      Sr,       46        39
Gross orlmarv enrolIment (6 of schoolsage ooouletionl    74        100        96                   Pakistan
Male          0         ::                       :    101t       110       1n2                   Low-income group
:  mf   i                                              45       90          RR
KEY ECONOMIfC RATIOS and LONG-TERtA TRENDS
1979     198S       199S      1999
GOP fUSS bhions I                             19.7     40.2       62.2      58.2      Economicratios:
irrnAdn"mest InvastmantlGnP                  179       1fA 2     17 7      1Stl
Fwnnrt* nf nnfs AndN Arvicj,,np               1n7      139        161 1     5 2                      Trade
Gros domeasticsavinoslGDP:                     S.       11.0      13.2      10r1
(irnss natinnatl savionsicflP                 137       15.6      150n       11 2
Currant Account               :                4.2       1         -2.7               Domestic 4I < 2              tnvestment  : \
Ine tnvinantalGftp                                                               Do11.m1eSaicg
Tntal dxht/RiP                            :   4.5_.    4S 7       fi1.ft    :SRR4     Savings                      Inve1tment
Tot debt servieslaxoorts.                     1 85     24.2       23.6      27.4
Prfesent vRbii on tiehtltiG.P                                     41 1
Present value of debtlexoorts                    .        ..    220.1
:   i              :  I                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndebtedness
1979-89  1989.9  199t          1999   19 99.ti3
(everoe annuvl arowthi
("rip 6N7                                      .3 9      2.        2 7       .R1                    Pakistan
GNP ner c-anitst                      A6       I .5    -1 4        03I       2 A                    Low-income group
Exoots of roods amd serwIces          9.2      2.9      -57        -2.4      6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of inveatment and GDP %)
f% of GOP)                                                                            20
Anrdiltuirn                                   304       26.9      27 3      27 2
Industrv                                      23.6     23.9       23.6      23.5      o ^
Mamifactujrlna                               15.4     16.6       15.f      1566      0
Services                                      46.0     49.2       48.9      49.4    _lo      0        4  go s   7    Be    .
PrivatA c,nsnumntion                          R3. R    72 2       7S 5      76 4     -20
(enerainrnvernmAnt r.nn.lmntion               In,4      16.A      11.3      11.S                  - D           '  GDP
ImoOrts of onods and services                 22.8     21.7       20.6      20.1
1979-B9  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
lovarace annual arowth)
Anr,rlhiirt,                                   4.fi      4.4       4.5        1.9    20
Industrv                                       7.3      4.3        6.1       2.5
Manilfacti,rinn                               7.9      4.n        .9       4 2     It
Services                                       7.2      4.6        1.6       4 1
Private cnnsijmntinn                           4 2      5.0        01         i 3
1Genaral novnrnmnnt r.nniermntinn             1n.S       0.4       6 .       -fi.1
Gross domestic investment                      6.5       2.2       9.6     -11.8    .10
tmnnrts of annds and Aervices                  1 7      3.4        .R56      -6.2                  Exports    ltmposr
Gross national oroduct                         6.6       4.0       1.0        2.B
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldl comoared with its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
ha inmomnlte.
- 90 -



Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic pt1ces
(16 change)
Consumer prices                               ..       ..       7.8       5.7    10
Implicit GDP deflator                        6.6      8.6        7.5      6.0
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0
Current revenue                                ..    18.1      16.3      16.3            94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.8      -4.2      -2.6            -     GDP deflator    CPI
Overall surplusideficit                       ..    -7.7       -7.7      -6.1
TRADE
(USS millions)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~97            1989      1998     1999      Export and irnport levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)                              17        99       19        99        Epr n  motlvl USml.
Total exports (fob)                           ..   4,634      8,433    7,527    15,000
Cotton                                       ..    930         126        2
Rice                                         ..    304        562       533    12.00
Manufactures                                 ..   3,312      4,866    4,538    9s*,0
Total imports (cf)                            ..   7,851    10,456   10,888 6
Food                                         ..       ..    1,685    1,622
Fuel and energy                              ..   1,006      1,750    1,458      3.000
Capital goods                                ..       ..    2,288    3,027         0
593  94  96  9S  97  98  99
ExDort DnCe index (1995=1001                  ..      51         94       90
Imoort oice index (1995=100)                  ..       45        91      102                  U Exports     *Irrports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                       ..    112        104       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (#)
(US$ nuiffions)
Exports of goods and services              2,107    5,577    10,017    8,838      o_
Imports of goods and services              4,485    8,736    12,819   11,688
Resource balance                          -2,378   -3,159    -2,802   -2,850      2
Net income                                  -233    -875    -2,330   -1,808
Net current transfers                      1,790    2,687     3,430    2,471         . 11                1
Current account balance                     -820   -1,347    -1,702   -2,187
Financing items (net)                        515    1,347      1,554    3,441
Changes in net reserves                      305        0       148   -1,254    -8
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)         ..   1.237      1.464    2.228
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSSI             9.9    19.2       43.0      50.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
fUSS millionsl                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       8,919   18,348    32,229   31,176
IBRD                                       339    1,428     3,262    3,175                    G: 1.390 A: 3,17S
IDA                                        751    1,915     3,732    3,857           F:3,028
Total debt service                           658    1,841     2,743    2,743                                   B: 3,857
IBRD                                        57      147       381      400
IDA                                          9    30           70    81                 _
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 c:1,519
Official grants                            146      381       175      194
Official creditors                         561      931       891     1,642      E: 10,680
Private creditors                           23      -12       306      -316
Foreign direct investment                   58      210       500      428                    -        ,
Portfolio equity                            ..        .         ..      28                               D: 7,527
World Bank program
Commitments                                139      746       250      808      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              105      471       606      683      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        27       82       243      264      r lur                      r
Netflows                                    79      389       363      419
Interest payments                           39       95       208      217
Net transfers                               39      294       155      202
Development Economics                                                                                              8/25/00
- 91 -



Additional
Annex 11
Environmental and Social Issues
Introduction
11.01 As part of the preparation of a fourth national OFWM project, which was designed to include
institutional reform and rehabilitation/investment activities in all four provinces, a general review of
potential environmental and social issues was conducted. This review also benefited indirectly from a
detailed sector environmental assessment of drainage issues in Pakistan. The Drainage SEA recommended a
strategy to deal with the drainage and envirownental problems of the IBIS. Key recommendations of this strategy
have direct relevance to NWFP's OFWM program: (a) additional irrigation water, if available, should not be
supplied to areas where this could exacerbate the need for drainage; (b) undertaking major drainage schemes
should be done in conjunction with improvement of irrigation management at main and secondary levels and
reduction of water losses at watercourse and field levels; and (c) the government should give special attention to
beneficiary participation. These studies were supplemented by a rapid appraisal mission and consultation
with key stakeholders, in order to identify issues specific to the proposed NWFP-OFWM project and to
propose a framework for mitigating potential negative impacts and enhancing positive ones.
11.02 Given the nature of the issues identified, and the fact that the project involves mainly beneficial
rehabilitation work and construction of minor irrigation schemes with low and easily manageable
environmnental imnpacts, IDA and GONWFP based on a rapid screening and scoping exercise with key
stakeholders--agreed to a categorization of the project as "B" under Bank/IDA Operational Policy OP 4.01,
but not requiring a separate EA or RAP/lPDP. The project's primary aim is to contribute to putting in
place far reaching institutional reforms, underpinned by the formation and empowertment of FOs and
federations of FWUAs. Farmer organizations and FWUAs will have clearly defined participatory roles for the
O&M. In the first case, irrigation management (including recovery of water charges) would be fully transferred to
FOs. In the second case, FWUAs, will jointly manage the irrigation system with government agencies.
Therefore, it was agreed that as part the targeting/demand-driven approach proposed as the main vehicle
for identifying priority areas of intervention, environmental and social issues would form an integral part of
an overall FIPMSP. The key principles of such a framework are given below and would be developed in
detail in the early part of project implementation, through the technical assistance component, and as part
of the process of setting up and transferring management responsibilities to FOs/FWUAs.
11.03 This approach also allows enough flexibility to better target and adapt environmental and social
capacity development needs throughout the reform process in conjunction with developments under the
NDP (currently undergoing a midterm review expected to result in major restructuring to deal with environmental
management issues) which focuses mainly on drainage rehabilitation throughout the entire Indus Basin. The
NDP is also underpinned by major institutional reforms of the irrigation departments and the setting up of
autonomous provincial rrigation and Drainage Authorities (PIDAs) and AWBs. Coherence is crucial
among OFWM, NDP and other proposed and ongoing complementary irrigation and drainage projects
because their common denominator, and key to success, is the social infrastructure and capacity for
environmental management to be developed in a basin framework.
Project Setting
11.04 Because of the geographical location of NWFP, only about half of its cultivated area is irrigated,
and much of it lies outside of the IBIS command area. NWFP's entire irrigated area consists of 10 major
- 92 -



canals, 250 distributaries, minors, and subminors, most of them with a command area of 5,000 ha or less.
Overall, 20 percent of the gross irrigated area in the province is affected by surface salinity and sodicity,
which is half of the national average. In general salinity problems are confined to the southern part of the
province in areas already covered by salinity control and reclamation projects.
11.05 After a long period of physical infrastructure development which focused on planning,
construction, engineering, and financial management skills, the irrigation system is believed to be
characterized by a general breakdown in accountability at all levels and constrained by: (a) a general
shortage of good quality canal water, particularly during peak periods of crop water requirements; (b) a
maintenance-related deterioration resulting in reduced water delivery efficiency, exacerbating water
shortages and lack of fiscal sustainability; and (c) centralized administrative and management system which
cannot cope with operation and maintenance, as well as equitable water distribution. These problems are
compounded by fairly complex rural social system and property rights arrangements. The end result is a
stagnant, or sluggishly growing productivity of irrigated agriculture and a diminishing marginal
productivity of water and land resources.
11.06 The project's primary aim is to contribute to reforming the system and promoting equity and
efficiency through a demand-driven comprehensive approach, thus breaking with the resource expansion or
supply-driven approach to irrigation management. In the NWFP and FATA (tribal areas are not subject to
"indigenous people" or "displaced people" status because they are inhabited by the dominant tribes of the NWFP
about 10 percent of the irrigation area would benefit from the project through five main components, as
described in Section C of the PAD (see also Annex 2).
1 1.07. The lead implementing agency, the Directorate of OFWM (Department of Agriculture) supported
by PIC. The project will be implemented with the guidance of a technical interdepartmental PCC overseen
by a PPC. The PCC will be chaired by the DG OFWM and will include representatives of the provincial
Irrigation Department/FIDA, FATA, provincial Agricultural Department, District Administration, FOs,
and NGOs. The PPC will be chaired by the additional chief secretary (Development) and will include the
secretaries of Irrigation, Agriculture, Planning and Development, Finance, and DG Environmental
Protection Agency. A federal coordination unit would coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities and
assess project impacts across all provinces. Similar OFWM projects are proposed for other provinces. The
implementation consultants will provide all the necessary assistance for formation of FOs/FWUAs,
engineering support, and technical assistance. Close joint supervision by GOP/GONWFP and IDA (as
reflected in the project supervision plan and budget) will ensure that the consultants have adequate capacity
and experience to deal with social and environmental issues.
Key Environmental and Social Issues
11.08. A rapid screening and scoping exercise was conducted jointly with the NWFP/FATA and in
consultation with two farmner organizations. The main project related environmental issues reviewed
include: (a) health risks from silt removal and disposal, and contamination of water storage tanks, (b) water
quality impairment, from agricultural runoff, desilting, and potential increase in agro-chemicals use, and its
potential impact on drinking water supply; (c) drainage impact of improved and new irrigation schemes,
including water storage tanks; (d) impact on groundwater availability from potential changes to the water
balance (e.g., reduced seepage); (e) construction related impacts of rehabilitation works and new irrigation
schemes; (f) impacts caused by intensification of agrochemical use; (g) potential impacts on natural
habitats; (h) availability of information and environmental and social spatial knowledge base; and (i)
implementation capacity to adequately address social and environmental issues.
- 93 -



11.9.  The overall result of the review is that localized impacts of construction/rehabilitation works would
not pose major risks and will normally be taken care of as part of good engineering practice by contractors
and adequate monitoring and quality control (as described in framework below). These types of impacts
are related to activities such as desilting, channel lining, rehabilitation of gates and diversion structures,
wall strengthening/rebuilding, installation of water measuring structures and gauges, watercourse
realignment, improved culverts and outlets, animal wallows and laundry sites, construction of small water
storage tanks, precision land leveling, rehabilitation of embankments, formation of berms, protection of
structures, provision of gates at the cross regulators, minor irrigation schemes (involving water harvesting,
and partial perennial flow diversion), and office buildings for FOs/FWUAs. Drainage and salinity do not
appear to be a major problem except in Salinity Control And Reclamation Project areas which are outside
of the project scope. Water tanks are completely concrete-lined and are planned for barani areas where the
water table is generally very deep. Moreover, these tanks are typically used to capture and store water for
(in some cases supplemental) irrigation water and not for human consumption.
11.10. However, a number of issues of more strategic importance and indirectly related to project
activities, were identified:
(a) institutional capacity: (i) weak institutional capacity and enforcement of environmental regulation,
despite major initiatives during the last 10 years In addition to a National Conservation Strategy
(NCS, 1992) supported by several donor initiatives, Environmental Protection and Resources
Conservation Project [EPRCP] (IDA credit 2383-Pak) supported: i. enactment of new environmental
legislation (1997 Environmental Act);, ii. development of national environmental quality standards
(pollution emission standards) and environmental impact Assessment guidelines and regulation; iii.
strengthening of provincial capacity (in the form of new environmental agencies (EPAs) and/or
environmental sections in planning and development departments), and iv. provincial monitoring
capacity and training of staff;
(b) wastewater discharge into the irrigation/canal system and the resulting potential health impacts
(people use irrigation water for various purposes including drinldng);
(c) groundwater monitoring (there is a need to consolidate and update information on the status of
groundwater resources, as some reports indicate potential mining and quality problems in some
areas);
(d) agrochemical use and pest management, despite relatively low levels of use: the weakness of the
extension system, coupled with prevailing governance problems are such that farmers are generally
at the mercy of chemical dealers for product selection and management advice;
(e) natural habitats (because of very little awareness of this issues on the part of government officials
and farmers, and the fact that province is home to at least two Ramsar sites (Tanda Dam and
Thanedar Wala); and
(f) need for an adequate spatial knowledge-base and analytical capacity for effective environmental
and social mainstreaming into an integrated water resources management framework.
11.11 The project would help build awareness and capacity within government agencies and FOs to deal
with these issues over time.
11.12  The main project related social issues reviewed include: (a) equity and benefits to the poor, who
are either at the tail end of the watercourse system, or are landless tenants or own very little land (thus the
key role of initial screening and targeting); (b) inclusiveness of farmer organizations (WUAs and
FOs/FWUAs) particularly in relation to poor framers (at the tail-end of the watercourses), tenants, and
- 94 -



women who have no legal land ownership and irrigation rights; (c) governance and transparency of FOs,
having to do with the formation and registration process fornally ensured by the FIDA, financial
management and decision making, as well as modes of representation and conflict resolution (which will
continue to be based on traditionaljirga (traditional jirgas are a conflict resolution mechanism around specific
issueslconflicts, and involve representatives of all concerned parties to the conflict along with respected community
elders and occasionally third party members. In NWFP, indications are that over 90 percent of conflicts related to
irrigation water are solved through jirgas); (d) gender issues, because women are not included as irrigators
and do not have a direct role in the irrigation system due to local constraints and culturally defined roles
which determines activities they can perform in this sector; and (e) social mobilization capacity of
government agencies and local NGOs/CBOs and their role in project implementation (e.g., social
infrastructure development, training/awareness raising, and M&E). The project will deal will all these
issues directly as part of the process of forming and empowering FOs/FWUAs. Women and landless
tenants will benefit indirectly from improved irrigation efficiency (e.g., increased household income, access
to safer drinking water) and directly though targeted training and capacity building activities.
Framework for Identing and Mitigating Impacts
11.13  Sites and specific interventions have not been identified. These would be selected based on a
screening process with heavy technical assistance support--which would include eligibility criteria related
to poverty focus, readiness of FOs and FWUAs to assume distributary management responsibilities, and
hydrological factors. It was agreed that a such a process will be formalized in an overall FIPMSP, which
would specifically cover environmental and social issues. This framework will be developed by the PCC
with technical support from the PIC, and will be cleared by the PPCe and approved by IDA before
selection and implementation of subprojects. The objective of developing such a framework is to ensure
that a clear road map, with clear and measurable screening criteria, a transparent process and procedures,
adequate technical and management capacity and financial resources, as well as a timetable and a
monitoring system are in place before project activities are initiated.
11.14 An outline of the key step of the screening framework (FIPMSP), is described below, including
mnilestones which require IDA review and clearance:
A. Selection of Subprojects and Formation of FOs/FWUAs
1. Initial screening and area targeting: The identification of priority implementation (geographic)
areas from which subprojects will be selected based on need, poverty, and willingness to
participate, should be done through a mapping and spatial analysis based on criteria such as (to be
further refined):
(a) areas with predominant rainfed cultivation, but with a potential for expansion or rehabilitation of
irrigation coverage,
(b) low concentration of land ownership, with most land held by owner operators,
(c) other specific poverty criteria,
(d) areas with where system rehabilitation improvement and quality of service needs are highest,
(e) hydraulic/hydrologic/climatic factors (e.g., state of canal and drainage network, water availability,
hydrologic independence), and
(f) areas where most lessons could be learned for mainstreaming.
The project consultant will be urged to develop a global information system database as early as possible
to help in area targeting. If feasible, this should be done in collaboration with the global infonnation
system's lab at Peshawar University's Department of Planning and Environmental Management.
- 95 -



2. Information dissemination and demand promotion. This step, allowing a demand driven process
within target areas, will help build ownership and ease the process of social mobilization downstream in
the process. The project description and the requirements for participation (e.g., cost sharing,
responsibility for O&M, water charge collection, equitable water management, legal status and
governance requirements) should be disseminated in the areas identified through the initial
screening and area targeting (Al). Since project implementation will have to be phased, the
information dissemination and subsequent selection of subprojects should start in the areas
identified as being the poorest and in most need of irrigation improvement/development.
Applications from potential beneficiary communities will be based on a predefined format which
requires that specific types of infonnation are provided (e.g., land use, irrigation coverage, land
holding, and land tenure). The infornation dissemination and support to groups of farmers to
prepare an application will be done by the project's conmmunity development and support group.
3. Screening and identification of subproiects: based on applications received from groups of
potential beneficiaries, subprojects would be screened and selected for implementation based on
eligibility criteria such as (to befurther refined, including weights given to each criteria):
(a) need for rehabilitation or development of irrigation infrastructure;
(b) hydrologic considerations (e.g., hydrologically independent areas);
(c) readiness of applicants to form FOs and FWUAs to assume distributary management
responsibilities demonstrated by an application;
(d) poverty (e.g., measured through income poverty, low levels of land concentration, or other
criteria to be defined); and
(e) the presence of environmental and social impacts which cannot be mitigated. Impacts subject to
screening are as required by GOP/GONWFP regulation and Bank/IDA Safeguard Policies (OP/BP/GP
4.01, OP 4.04, OP 4.07, OP/BP/GP 4.09, OD 4.20, and OD 4.30). The aim of these requirements is to
help maximize environmental and social objectives while minimizing negative social and environmental
impacts in addition to economic or other relevant criteria. Criteria should clearly specify that in the
case of subprojects requiring land acquisition, only cases of verifiable voluntary land acquisition
would be eligible for support under the project.
This screening will be conducted by the PCC with the help of the PIC.
4. Baseline surveys and information system (distributary profile). Detailed baseline data will only be
collected for subprojects selected for implementation (plus a number of representative control
group areas without project interventions)These data will be organized into a computerized
infonnation system (including georeferencing in a global infonnation system) and will be used as
the baseline against which project performance and achievement of outcomes will be measured.
The types of data collected for the baseline - and subsequently during monitoring should therefore
lend themselves to output and outcome monitoring. Baseline data would be in three (related) parts:
(a) Socioeconomic data: Key household information, land ownership (size of landholdings), land
tenure (owner operators, land given in tenancy, land held in tenancy), employment (agricultural and
non-agricultural), amount of irrigated and nonirrigated land, irrigation water supply (frequency,
amount, and reliability), irrigation system maintenance (at different levels, by farmers and by
FIDA), income from agriculture and other sources, agricultural production (types of crops and
yields, cropping intensity). Where WUAs are already in place and functioning, data will also be
collected on inclusiveness, performance in terms of water distribution and system maintenance, and
- 96 -



transparency in financial management. The methodology for data collection (e.g., random
sampling versus complete enumeration, as well as approach to household data collection) should be
specified as part of the detailed framework.
(b) Distributary environmental and social assessment: From an environmental point of view, the
distributory environmental and social assessment would cover three areas:
*  Issues (mainly construction) related to physical system improvements (e.g. in the distributary
network and the sub-asins that drain it) and requiring mitigation. These issues will require a due
diligence process and a mitigation plan to be made part of and procured with
engineering/construction services, and agreed upon before contractor RFPs are issued and physical
works are undertaken.
*   Issues related to potential induced impacts ofproject activities and requiring institutional and
capacity development. Although the project is expected to increase water use efficiency and
provide environmental benefits in the form of improved management of soil salinity and overall
water resources, the full benefits from improved irrigation efficiency would not be achieved
without other improvements in crop management technologies in the form of intensification of
chemical and management use and changes in crop mix. A specific assessment of this issue will
provide recommendations for a pest management plan which will be incorporated (at least on a
pilot basis) into the demonstration centers' programs to be setup under the project, and used for
general training a awareness raising of farmers and women groups. In addition, the assessment
will include an identification of "natural habitat" areas within the distributary, and propose specific
recommendations to alter subproject design to preserve the integrity or protect these areas.
*   Baseline monitoring information. While the project cannot deal with the whole question of
enforcement of effluent emission and water quality regulation, baseline data will be collected as
part of the distributory environmental and social assessment to ascertain the quality of irrigation
channel water and ground water resources used by households. This will be complemented by
selected monitoring of silt removed from irrigation channels and reportedly used by farmers as a
top soil on their fields because of it high nutrient content. Appropriate participatory indicators will
also be developed for monitoring by the water users themselves. This baseline monitoring program
will be implemented in collaboration with the provincial EPA, and designed in such a way as to be
replicated at midterm review and at the time of project closing.
From a social point of view, the distibutory environmental and social assessment would cover two
categories of issues:
* Issues related to the formation, governance structure, and inclusive nature of FOs/FWUAs; most
of these issues are mitigated through the use of the present framework (FIPMSP). However, a
specific plan to insure that women and landless tenants can concretely benefit from project
activities, will to be developed, approved by the Project Policy Committee and IDA and monitored
during project implementation (e.g., access to water resources, training).
*   Issues related to potential voluntary land acquisition stemming from new irrigation schemes,
channel realigning, construction of animal wallows and laundry sites, establishment of FO offices,
demonstration centers, and rehabilitation of inspection roads.
In addition to the assessment of the issues described above, the distributory environmental and
social assessment will include a management plan with specific mitigation measures, an
- 97 -



institutional assessment of existing FOs and CBOs, a gender development program, a budget,
and implementation arrangement which wil be built into the development program of each
beneficiary FO/distributary. TORsfor the distributory environmental and social assessment as
well as implementation of its recommendations will be reviewed and approved by the PPC and
IDA.
5. Physical and hydrological data of the eligible distributaries. Basis data needed to help design
scheme rehabilitation or development, can be collected separately or as part of the distributory
environmental and social assessment.
6. Mobilization. capacity building, and planning involving FOs/FWUAs:
(a) Using the baseline survey data and the distributory environmental and social assessment and
building on the initial interaction with farmers, a detailed plan of mobilization and organizing
FOs/FWUAs will be developed and reviewed by the PPC and IDA before implementation. This
plan will include a timetable, and key milestones (initial meetings, agreements, election of
representatives, legal notification, office setup, signature of contract transferring/sharing
management responsibilities from FIDA/AWB, transfer of management of the irngation system).
In addition, the plan will include details of a training program covering management, O&M,
environmental, and social issues.
B. Preparation and implementation of subproject development plan
1. Initial walk through, jointly by FOs/FWUAs, PCC, AWB, PIDA, and the PIC.
2. Rehabilitation and improvement program (works). Established FOs/FWUAs, with technical
support from the PIC, will prepare an investment plan including:
(a) a distributary level improvement rehabilitation, and implementation arrangements,
(b) watercourse and on-farm improvement program, and implementation arrangements, local/minor
irrigation schemes,
(c) equipment/machinery needed for O&M, and budget, including beneficiary contributions towards
capital costs and O&M.
(d) procurement and contractual procedures and arrangements.
In addition, established FOs/FWUAs will be consulted regarding rehabilitation of branch canals
leading to their command areas.
3. Implementation of the recommendations of the distributorv environmental and social assessment
management plarL These will be incorporated and implemented as part of the investment plan and
capacity building and strengthening programs.
4. Agreement on final detailed plan by FOs/FWUAs.
Implementation of the agreed plan (detailed schedule will need to be developed).
5. Final walk through jointly by FOs/FWUAs, PCC, AWB, PIDA, and the PIC.
6. Commissioning and hand-over of completed works for FOs/FWUAs management.
- 98 -



7. Follow-up support--based on monitoring information-- to FOs/FWUAs which experience problems
with governance or irrigation system management. Technical support teams
C. Capacity Building/Strengthening
1. Training and technical assistance programs will be developed in close consultation with the PPC,
the PCC, FOslFWUAS, the Department of Extension, and NGOs with relevant expertise. Key
areas where capacity development is needed include: (a) environmental management and
awareness skills (e.g., water-crop management, fertilizer and pest management, water quality,
drainage, sanitation and related envirornental health issues, overall water resources management,
and environmental assessment); (b) social skills (e.g., social mobilization, social assessment, and
gender issues); (c) management skills (e.g., finance, procurement, O&M); and (d) information
management and analysis skills (e.g. GIS use, use of analytical techniques, decision support
systems, communication, etc.).
2. Target institutions/groups include: (a) the provincial Departments of Irrigation, On-Farm water
Management, and Extension Wings. Because these departments will be undergoing major restructuring
and personnel compression, preference would be given to training senior staff already on board (within
the OFWM Department, an agricultural engineer with specialization in water management, within the
Irrigation Department, a superintendent engineer within the Canal and Drainage Circle areas where the
project will be implemented, and within the Extension Department, a plant protection agronomist
specializing in integrated pest management). However, if such arrangement is notfeasible, external
expertise will need to be recruited and in place by the time ofproject launch.These trained staff would
serve as advisors to the PPC and members or advisors to the PCC; (b) the AWBs, either
independently or in as part of capacity development of the Irrigation Department and FIDA (being
undertaken under NDP); (c) the FOs/FWUAs to be formed; and (d) women and landless tenants (to
be specifically identified).
3. Implementation will be done in two phases: (a) a startup phase which will include key staff
working in or supporting the PPC and PCC, and the field staff which will conduct the initial
screening and targeting, baseline surveys, and social mobilization; and (b) a technical support
phase which will be mainly targeted to farmers, women and landless tenants, follow up support to
FOs/FWUAS as required, and would extend all the way until the demonstration centers are in
place.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring will be designed to provide for a continuous leaming and adjustment of project approach and
subproject plans, and will involve: (a) participatory monitoring based on self-defined indicators (by focus
groups of beneficiaries, and FOs/FWUAs), (b) monitoring data on inputs, outputs and impacts/outcomes
by the federal coordination unit through the M&E consultants, and (c) Bank supervision. The
implementation of mitigation measures and recommendations of DESAs would be monitored as part of the
overall arrangements for monitoring project performance for use in decision-support. Early in project
implementation, before the start of subproject selection and implementation, a monitoring framework
including institutional arrangements and indicators will be submitted to the Bank for clearance.
- 99 -



The indicators for measuring project achievement of development objectives will include:
*   Process monitoring covering formation and institutional development of FOs/FWUAs, (e.g.,
selection of farmer representatives, decision making within FOs/FWUAs, their involvement in
subproject planning; and cost contribution);
* Capacity building of FOs/FWUAs for management of O&M (monitoring including self-evaluation
is also needed for AWB and FIDA staff);
* Operation and maintenance performance of FOs/FWUAs, AWBs, and PIDA with regard to
hydrologic, agronomic, institutional and social parameters (equity regarding timely and adequate
water supply throughout the system; inclusion of poor farmers; O&M performance; transparency
regarding decision making, resource mobilization and financial management; conflict resolution),
based on both self-evaluation and external assessment by the M&E consultant.
*   Impacts and outcomes in terms of: increased household incomes, and a sustainable, technically
effective institutional framework for O&M of irrigation works through FOs/FWUAs, AWE3s, and
PIDA.
*   Implementation of the distributary environmental management plans.
E. Institutional/Implementation Arrangements
Institutional arrangements. The PIC (responsible for the social mobilization and technical assistance
programs and which includes a core teamn, and a number of baseline survey teams, social organizations
teams, and technical support teams, and NGOs) will have as part of its team at least an environmental
expert and a social mobilization expert whose qualification and experience would be acceptable to IDA.
Since there is little capacity within the govermnent to develop FIPMSP intemally, the PICs' contract for
social mobilization, technical support, and baseline surveys would be appropriately amended to: (a)
develop the FIPMSP consistent with the present annex (Annex 1 1) as part of their inception report, and (b)
amend the consultant TORs to provide enviromnental and social development expertise required to develop
and implement FIPMSP.
- 100 -



MAP SECTION






69r                            71W                            71'                            72'        7J3'                                               714'
PAKISTAN                                                            j                                               \     %* 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE                                                        /              '''                        -
I~~~~~~
ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE AND                                                 '<%                              . /
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS (FATA)                                  r *% :                5
NORTHWEST FRCNTI1ER PROVINCE.- 
,7.,/7    , IRROGATED AREAS                                                                         /
fEDERALLYAD'INISTEREDTRdBALAREAS FATAI         (                   cit C t              / . Z
3oo          , ///'   ~~~~IRR)GA715D AREAS                                             !_                            ' -
BARANI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'KV.OTHR DONOR ASSYSTED PROJECS                                   0IAI 29$
A    
0   SELECTED TOWNS AND \ilAGES'    2                                                       -       '-<
NATIONAL CAPTAL                                          I                 V                                    t  - /
MAJOR CANAL/CANAL COMMAND'
FATA BOUNDARYKOl                                                                                                   A
.TSTDRICT OR PCM AGENCYBOUNDARIES
-  DI . VISION BOUINDARIES                                                                                            DSu,
--F-ROVIC FEOANDARaES                                                                                I;,
-.-INTERNATIONA ROLJ'JARES                                                                         B                   I'.
r        ..o~~~~~~~t   B~8A'T TAGR'AM/'          'A
-35                                                                                                     -SWAt7                                                      L
'MAJOR CANAL/CANAL COMMANDS:                                                                                                     2y          /
U.S.C. UPPER SWAT CANAL                                                                                                C2
L.S.C LOWER SWAT CANAL                                *                                            B              / R  -
KSR.C. KARUL RIVER CANAL                             (I4,.e                I
WELD. WARSAK LIPT CANA
W.GC. WARSAK GRA VIYCANAL                                  .. ....
M2 MARWAT CANAIM ND                                                                         MAY         RA
IRR.C BARARVERCANAL                              MOHMAN             ALANf p           tv  -               >2/ a
C.R&BC. CHASHMA RIGHT RANK CANAL                                      ~' '
P.C. PAHARPUJR CANAL                                                   -
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BF                                                                  0 TT BA D     N 9
314 NW  RTH    WAZIRtISTAN   O   ...    A6botkrd
P37cWr /7            *            BERc'27-- --2 - Ba                                              _,                        3
0~~~~~~~
Ku{7 \TANK 24/;nml Khnn AFGHzISLAMAABAD
BA F G  HAN I S T A N                                                                                                                    KT       r
UN694   70o   0099  7i       722                             -at /      >        i             x, N
. ............... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ SKWNTA c't.                      -A'(
N  I R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LRCSI'
RMTiH  W    Z I  ISTAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ AAFIENTN             0~~
A         I                                          PUNJAB~~7      IPIPLA
A, K ~ ~ ~                 5    0 41 TOA. 
s 0  TAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOHSA
A~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~/L
L               ., AWTAU:_
32-                                                                               32-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2~~~       .            N)~.
49'                                   km                                       72'                                             2               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  FGA



