Report No. PID9353
Project Name                      Pakistan-North West Frontier (@) ...
Province On-Farm Water Management
(NWFP-OFWM)
Region                            South Asia Regional Office
Sector                            Irrigation & Drainage; Decentralization;
Institutional Development
Project ID                        PKPE71092
Borrower(s)                       GOVT. OF PAKISTAN
Implementing Agency
Address NWFP OFWM DIRECTORATE
Water Management Directorate, Agriculture
Department, N.W.F.P.
5th Floor, Benevolent Fund Building, Peshawar Cantt
Contact Person: Mr. Muhammad Yousaf
Khattak, Director Water Management
Tel: 279574
Fax: 278386
Environment Category              B
Date PID Prepared                 February 9, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date          June 25, 1998
Projected Board Date              March 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
1.1 Agriculture is the backbone of the Pakistan economy, employing 47
percent of the labor force and earning 70 % of export revenues.     Total
cultivated area is 22 million hectares (ha), with overall cropping
intensity of 105 percent. Pakistan's agriculture is almost wholly
dependent on irrigation; irrigated land supports more than 90 percent of
agricultural production. Agriculture in most areas is not possible
without irrigation because the climate is arid to semi-arid with low and
variable rainfall. However, there are abundant surface water resources in
the Indus Basin, which covers 566,000 km2 and is the major source of
Pakistan's water. The Indus Basin Irrigation System (IBIS) commands about
14 million ha which accounts for the bulk of the agriculturally productive
land. Annual river inflows average about 180 billion m3 of which about
130 billion m3 are diverted to canals. The IBIS is composed of three
major reservoirs (Chasma, Mangla and Tarbela), 19 barrages, 12 link
canals, 43 canal commands and about 135,000 watercourses, one third of
which are already renovated.1.2 The North West Frontier Province covers
13% (10.2 million ha) of the total country area.      It has nearly 2 million
ha cultivated land with an overall cropping intensity of 113%.     A greater
majority of the people (859) live in the rural areas, compared to 68% for
Pakistan. Consequently, agriculture in the province employs 4% more labor
force than the country average of 47%.     Irrigated agriculture which
accounts for 51% of the cultivated area supports about 60% of the
agricultural production. While much of the irrigated area is outside the
IBIS command, 83% of the irrigated lands are supplied water by the canal
systems, of which 13% lands are supplemented by groundwater (through



tubewells and Persian-wheel wells). About half the canal command area of
0.78 million ha is served by government canals and the remaining half by
the private (commonly known as civil) canals. NWFP has about 20,400
watercourses, of which 31- are already renovated under the previous
on-farm water management (OFWM) programs.            1.3 As is prevalent in
Pakistan, the irrigation and drainage systems of the province are facing
severe problems. Despite Government's substantial budgetary input (the
yearly allocations relative to other sectors may seem healthy but may have
been grossly inadequate to effect the required maintenance), the systems
face shortage of resources and suffer from worsening operational
problems. In addition to water scarcity, the sub-sector faces major
problems: inefficient management of water systems (low delivery efficiency
and inequitable distribution); waterlogging and salinity; over
exploitation of groundwater in fresh groundwater areas; inadequate
operation and maintenance (O&M); and insufficient cost recovery. The
average delivery efficiency is reported to be between 35 W to 40 W from
the canal head to the root zone.1.4 The actual situation is even worse.
Most of the water losses occur in the unlined watercourses.
Traditionally, the watercourses suffer from improper design, poor
maintenance of channel banks, frequent siltation, inadequate provision for
culverts and animal drinking points, and non-standard outlets for
irrigating the fields.    The loss of such a major part of surface water
not only reduces the available water for crops but also contributes to
waterlogging and salinity. With reduced water availability, irrigators at
the tail end of watercourses in particular are exposed to greater risks of
crop failures which provides a disincentive for them not to use other
non-water inputs. In many instances, farmers are no longer keen to adopt
measures which enhance the water application efficiency.1.5 Another
serious problem is inequitable water distribution, arising partly from
excessive losses in the conveyance system but partly also due to
unauthorized outlets and illegal pumping from canals. Poorly maintained
watercourses and minor canals have the highest incidence of illegal
diversions. There are no effective forums of the farmers to raise their
concerns. Therefore, collective actions are rarely contemplated to check
the inequities of water distribution. Moreover, excessive Government role
in the irrigation management does not encourage meaningful beneficiary
participation in the system management. 1.6 The country has made
considerable investments for rehabilitating the irrigation and drainage
systems.   At the tertiary level of irrigation distribution system, the
OFWM program started in 1976 whereby the Government embarked upon
improving the watercourses, constructing water storage tanks, and
developing hill torrent based irrigation systems. Under this program
which was supported by several donors, such as IDA, USAID, ADB, OECF, and
others, about 44,000 watercourses have been improved to-date. Under the
Irrigation System Rehabilitation Program (ISRP) which started in 1982, an
attempt was made to clear backlog in the maintenance of irrigation canals
and surface drains. Both programs were highly successful in making
physical improvements to the systems. However, the institutional changes
needed for long term sustainability of the systems remained lacking in
these programs.      1.7 Beneficiary participation is one of the key
features of the OFWM program. It is popular among the farming community.
The Water Users' Associations (WUAs), organized under the three completed
(OFWM) projects, enthusiastically participated in implementing these
projects and made considerable contributions to capital costs. However,
after completion of the improvement works, WUAs became inactive.
-2 -



Therefore, the gains made due to WUAs' involvement started dissipating
over time as the required maintenance works were not routinely attended
to. After analyzing the reasons for inactivity such as lack of
partnership approach in irrigation management or continued inequities in
water distribution, several pilots were implemented to organize Farmers'
Organizations (FOs) at the distributary/minor level with clearly devolved
roles for the operation and management of the infrastructure and, more
importantly, recovery of water rates. 1.8 While the various OFWM programs
in the past made significant improvements in the supply of irrigation
water below the mogha (a designated water outlet in the minor or
distributary canal) level, they fell short of addressing the problems of
an overly centralized and bureaucratic public sector institutional set up
for the management of the irrigation and drainage systems. In order to
address this problem, the federal and the provincial governments are
moving towards major restructuring of the provincial departments,
involving the establishment of autonomous Provincial Irrigation and
Drainage Authorities, commercially oriented Area Water Boards at the canal
commands to operate the main and branch canals, and participatory FOs for
the operation and management of the system at the distributary/minor
level. The proposed NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project (NWFP-OFWM)
would deepen the institutional reforms which aim at improving operational
efficiency at all tiers of the system. The project would focus at the
tertiary level by establishing and sustaining effective FOs, and hence
will form an important link in the chain of institutional reforms.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to reduce rural poverty
through increased agricultural production leading to increased farm
incomes. This objective would be achieved by: (i) improving the
reliability, efficiency and equity of irrigation water distribution; (ii)
increasing on-farm water use efficiency; and (iii) enhancing long term
financial sustainability of the irrigation system by supporting the
government's effort to foster self sustaining Farmer Organizations (FOs).
The FOs would be devolved the responsibility for: managing, operating and
maintaining the water distribution infrastructure; collecting revenue from
water charges; and contributing to the capital cost of investments in the
water distribution system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Of all the major donors, only IDA brings to bear a comprehensive view of
sector development, a strategic focus and the lessons of experience in
implementing sector wide projects through out the world. IDA's role is
crucial in achieving the project objective of reducing rural poverty by
raising farm incomes. To create an enabling environment for increasing
the efficiency of irrigated agriculture, there is a need for major
institutional reforms and improvements in implementation capacity. These
institutional reforms need to be gounded in a comprehensive irrigation and
drainage sector strategy. The present OFWM project will support deepening
the institutional reform process, piloted under a number of projects,
particularly the National Drainage Program. Overall, IDA's role is
necessary for redefining the role of the Government in the irrigation and
drainage sector, with an emphasis on decentralization, beneficiary
participation, and sustainability.
4. Description
-3-



The project's primary aim is to contribute to reforming the system and
promoting equity and efficiency through a demand-driven comprehensive
approach, thus breaking with the resource expansion/ supply-driven
approach to water irrigation management. Using a Framework for
Identifying, Preparing, and Monitoring Sub-Projects (FIPMSP), the project
would cover an area of about 0.23 million hectares (210,500 in NWFP and
22,400 in FATA). It would be implemented over a period of five years.
Its major components with indicative cost are: (i) Community Development
and Support Program (US$ 2.85m) (ii) Distributary Level Improvement
Program (US$ 4.65 m) (iii) Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program
(US$ 9.65 m) (iv) Improvements in Branch/Distribution Canals (US$ 1.82 m)
(v) Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Development Program (US$ 12.43 m) (vi)
Project Management Support (US$ 5.68 m)
(i)   Through the Community Development and Support Program, farmers
organizations (FOs) would be developed at the distributary/minor canal
level which are capable of participating in management and the operation
and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation system on a sustainable basis.
For enhancing participation of farmers in system management two models
would be followed: (a) a Transfer of Management Model (TMM) under which
irrigation management would be fully transferred to FOs after completing
an agreed period of joint management. A transfer of management contract
would be executed between the Government Agency and FO defining the terms
of transfer and roles of all parties concerned. Six FOs covering an area
of about 26,000 hectare would be formed under this model; and (b) a
Participatory Irrigation Management Model (PIMM) where Federation of Water
Users' Associations (FWUAs, whereas WUAs are organized at the watercourse
level) would be formed at the distributary/minor canal level for
participation in the management of the irrigation system. Sixteen FWUAs
covering an area of about 90,000 ha. would be formed under this model.
These FOs/FWUAs would be involved in the irrigation management, inclusive
of planning, designing, and implementing irrigation improvement works
under the project.
(ii) Under the Distributary Level Improvement Program, assistance would be
provided to improve off-farm distributary/minor canals where FOs/FWUAs
have started participating in the irrigation management. Twenty two
distributary canals within FO/FWUA areas (20 in NWFP and 2 in FATA) would
be rehabilitated/improved.
(iii) Under the Watercourse and On Farm Improvements Program, about 1,380
watercourses (1,330 in NWFP and 50 in FATA) would be renovated, 350 water
storage tanks would be built in the barani areas of NWFP, precision land
leveling would be done on 3,540 ha (3,034 ha in NWFP and 500 ha in FATA)
of land, and 60 demonstration centers (48 in NWFP and 12 in FATA) would be
established to disseminate full range of water management practices and
irrigation agronomy techniques. These demonstration centers will
therefore serve as knowledge dissemination points. The project would
prioritize investments by focusing on areas that are relatively poor,
beginning at the tail end of the irrigation system in a proportionate
manner.   About 31,000 ha. of canal irrigated and 15,000 ha. of barani
irrigated area will benefit from improved irrigation.
(iv) Improvements in Branch/Distribution Canals is necessary to improve
water distribution to the distributary/minor canals. The
branch/distributary canals have deteriorated over time due to over use and
- 4 -



inadequate maintenance for the lack of required funds. They often carry
discharges beyond the limits of safe operation. Since the provincial
supply agency (FIDA) would be mandated to supply the agreed amount of
water to FOs/FWUAs under the on-going reform process, the project would
provide for rehabilitation/improvements of another 20 branch/distributary
canals leading to areas managed by FOs/FWUAs. It would cover an
incremental area of about 45,000 ha.
(v) The Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Development Program is envisaged,
with active participation from farmers, for 25 sites in NWFP and 3
equivalent sites in FATA (6 sites with smaller flows would be developed)
where perennial/seasonal flows need to be tapped. It would cover an area
of about 22,400 ha. The intake structures would be improved to increase
water captured from the sources and losses would be reduced in the main
delivery channel to service area. In flood schemes, simple rehabilitation
would be carried out to improve efficiency and equity.
(vi) The Project Management Support would be provided in project
supervision, project launch, mid-term review, impact evaluation, financial
management and audit, development of a management information system, and
training.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               4.9
IBRD                     0.0
IDA                      25.2
FARMER ORGANIZATIONS     7.0
Total Project Cost       37.1
6. Implementation
6.1 A Provincial Policy Committee (PPC) would provide overall policy
guidance and inter-departmental coordination for the effective and timely
implementation of the project. The PPC would be chaired by the Additional
Chief Secretary (Development), and the Secretaries of Irrigation,
Agriculture, Planning and Development/Environment, Finance and the
Director General (DG) of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) would be
its members. MD of FATADC would be its non-provincial member representing
FATA.  DG/Director OFWM would act as convener/secretary to the PPC.     The
PPC would meet at least every six months, or whenever issues requiring
resolution are submitted for its consideration. The PPC would mainly: (i)
resolve issues not settled by the Project Coordination Committee; (ii)
ensure provision of adequate budgetary allocations for project
implementation, and operation and maintenance; (iii) ensure adequacy and
continuity of project management staff; and (iv) ensure that the project
complies with the legal and financial covenants.6.2 A Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) would be responsible for ensuring coordination among
various agencies and facilitating project implementation. The PCC would
be chaired by DG/Director, OFWM and it would have members from: (i)
Provincial Irrigation Department/FIDA (the Superintending Engineers of
concerned Canal and Drainage Circles); (ii) FATADC; (iii) Provincial
Agricultural Department (the concerned Area Coordinators of OFWM, and the
Deputy Directors of Agriculture); (iv) the concerned representatives of
the District Administration; and (v) the FOs. The PCC would meet at least
once every quarter of the year. At the federal level, the federal
- 5 -



coordination unit (FCU) would coordinate monitoring and evaluation
activities and assess project's impact. The FCU would: (i) appoint
supervisory consultants for quality assurance, financial accounting and
auditing, who would be working closely with and under the guidance of the
relevant agencies of NWFP/FATA; (ii) monitor key project performance
indicators and evaluate project impact; and (iii) participate in project
supervision by the IDA and the Government of Pakistan. 6.3 The project
would be collectively implemented by the OFWM Directorate of the
Agriculture Department, the Irrigation Department/the Frontier Irrigation
and Drainage Authority (FIDA), the FATADC, and the Farmer Organizations
with support from Project Implementation Consultants and NGOs.     The
project management would have a minimum staff, only for the duration of
the project and would be supported by the consultants and NGOs. The core
management structure would consist of DG/ Director OFWM, and two
ex-officio members, one from the Irrigation Department/FIDA and the other
from the Water Management Wing. Director OFWM, assisted by the Community
Development and Support Group (CDSG), would have overall responsibility
for the community development and support program. CDSG would have one
headquarters office and field offices as appropriate from where the social
organization program would be launched. CDSG field teams would have
multi-disciplinary staff consisting of social organizers, institutional
development specialists, agriculturists, agricultural economists
engineers, and surveyors.6.4 Sites and specific interventions have not
been identified. These would be selected based on a screening process
with technical assistance support--which would include eligibility
criteria related to poverty focus, readiness of FOs and FWUAs to assume
distributary management responsibilities, and hydrological factors.     This
process will be formalized in an overall Framework for Identifying,
Preparing, and Monitoring Sub-Projects (FIPMSP), which would specifically
cover environmental and social issues. This framework will be developed
by the Project Coordination Committee with technical support from the
Project Implementation Consultants. The objective of developing such a
framework is to ensure that a clear road map, with clear and measurable
screening criteria, a transparent process and procedures, adequate
technical and management capacity and financial resources, as well as a
timetable and a monitoring system are in place before project activities
are initiated. The key steps in the screening framework (FIPMSP) include:
area targeting and eligibility; information dissemination; application
from farmer groups; screening and selection of sub-projects; baseline
surveys; mobilization, formation and capacity building of FOs and FWUAs;
preparation and implementation of infrastructure improvement plans;
capacity building and follow up support to FOs/FWUAs; and monitoring and
evaluation.
7. Sustainability
By developing effective FOs/FWUAs to whom responsibility of O&M would be
handed over, and through redefining the over-centralized role of
government in the irrigation system which would pave the way for greater
user participation, the project is inherently designed to ensure the
sustainability of the irrigation system. Enhanced cost sharing/recovery
measures would increase beneficiary ownership of the project facilities
which, in turn, would reinforce the sustainability of the irrigation
facilities. Based on the lessons learned from past operations, the
project provides for effective and sustainable FOs/FWUAs capable of
sharing the management responsibility at the secondary tier of the
- 6 -



irrigation system. Contrary to the Water Users' Associations (WUAs)
formed under previous OFWM projects, these FOs/FWUAs would have a key role
in irrigation management at this tier whereby WUAs had none before. The
FOs/FWUAs would participate in day-to-day operation of the system,
distribute water to its members, collect revenue, and would be supported
by technical staff (recruited by the FO/FWUA itself after technical
support phase of the project, which is expected to last two year on an
average, is complete). With such an essential role assigned to these
FOs/FWUAs, they are unlikely to become inactive. Furthermore, evidence
from the field suggests that such organizations can be sustainable on a
long term basis.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project is designed by taking into account the important lessons
learned from the Bank involvement in irrigation and drainage sector in
Pakistan, in particular from the two pilot FWUAs on the participatory
irrigation management carried out for Pabbi and Surizai minors in the
NWFP, and other countries such as Mexico, Argentina, the Dominican
Republic, Chile, the Philippines, and Turkey. Major lessons incorporated
in the project design are:(i)    beneficiary participation is made central
to the project. A social organization and support program is designed to
develop sustainable FOs/FWUAs which can effectively participate in the
management of the irrigation system. In the case of Pabbi/Surizai pilot,
farmers initially perceived that management of irrigation was beyond their
capacity, however, with reorganization they accepted that they can indeed
undertake the task. Unlike in the past, the FOs/FWUAs would be
responsible for crucial functions in irrigation management, that is,
distribution of water and collection of water charges. To be able to
carry out these functions effectively, they would be formed at the
distributary/minor level, the point where water control lies in Pakistan's
irrigation system, and would have the authority to levy and collect water
charges. They would cover sufficiently large areas, with an average
command area of about 4,500 hectares, and hence would generate sufficient
revenues to support a team of technical staff, office running, and the
required simple machinery to carry out O&M of the system satisfactorily in
a cost effective manner;(ii) a formal agreement would be executed between
the Irrigation Agency and the FOs/FWUAs clearly defining the roles of both
parties and the procedure for their participation in the system
management. Pabbi/Surizai experience also reveals that it is essential
that the minors are transferred to FWUAs, the roles of farmers and
government agencies are clarified, and working arrangements are
agreed;(iii) FOs/FWUAs should be functioning for a considerable period of
time (while it took three years to federate the WUAs in Pabbi/Surizai
minors, a key conclusion of the pilot was that the organization process
can be completed in much less time), carrying out the O&M of the system.
FOs/FWUAs should be willing to participate in planing, designing, and
implementing infrastructure improvements and rehabilitation works in order
to be receive assistance from the project;(iv) FOs/FWUAs would make
substantial (WUAs have demonstrated to pay 20W-30t up-front cost of
materials in addition providing skilled and unskilled labor for the works)
contributions towards the capital cost of infrastructure improvements and
construction works, thereby, increasing their stakes in the system and
enhancing their ownership of the project; and(v) an incisive package for
disseminating full range of water management practices and irrigation
agronomy techniques at the farm level has been included in the project in
-7 -



order to optimize the benefits of equitably distributed water (this was
also a key lesson from the Pabbi/Surizai pilots).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues    :   10.1 As part of the preparation of   a fourth
national OFWM project, which was designed to include institutional reform
and rehabilitation/investment activities in all four provinces, a general
review of potential environmental and social issues was conducted. This
review also benefited from a detailed sector environmental assessment
(SEA) of drainage issues in Pakistan's Indus Basin Irrigation System
(IBIS) which recommended that: (i) additional irrigation water, if
available, should not be supplied to areas where this could exacerbate the
need for drainage; (ii) undertaking major drainage schemes should be done
in conjunction with improvement of irrigation management at main and
secondary levels and reduction of water losses at watercourse and field
levels; and (iii) the government should give special attention to
beneficiary participation. These studies were supplemented by a rapid
appraisal mission and consultation with key stakeholders, in order to
identify issues specific to the proposed NWFP-OFWM project and to propose
a framework for mitigating potential negative impacts and enhancing
positive ones. 10.2 Given the nature of the issues identified, and the
fact that the project involves mainly beneficial rehabilitation work and
construction of minor irrigation schemes with low and easily manageable
environmental impacts, the project was categorized as "B" under Bank/IDA
Operational Policy OP 4.01. It was also agreed that as part the
targeting/demand-driven approach proposed as the main vehicle for
identifying priority areas of intervention, environmental and social
issues would form an integral part of the overall Framework for
Identifying, Preparing, and Monitoring Sub-Projects (FIPMSP). 10.3 The
rapid screening and scoping exercise which was conducted (in December
2000) in consultation with key stakeholders revealed no major issues which
could not be mitigated during project implementation. The main project
related environmental issues reviewed include: (i) health risks from silt
removal and disposal, and contamination of water storage tanks, (ii) water
quality impairment, from agricultural runoff, desilting, and potential
increase in agro-chemicals use, and its potential impact on drinking water
supply; (iii) drainage impact of improved and new irrigation schemes,
including water storage tanks; (iii) impact on ground water availability
from potential changes to the water balance (e.g., reduced seepage); (iv)
construction related impacts of rehabilitation works and new irrigation
schemes; (iv) impacts caused by intensification of agro-chemical use; (vi)
potential impacts on natural habitats; (vii) availability of information
and environmental and social spatial knowledge base; and (viii)
implementation capacity to adequately address social and environmental
issues.10.4 The overall result is that localized impacts of
construction/rehabilitation works would not pose major risks and will
normally be taken care of as part of good engineering practice by
contractors and adequate monitoring and quality control. These types of
impacts are related to activities such as desilting, channel lining,
rehabilitation of gates and diversion structures, wall
strengthening/rebuilding, installation of water measuring structures and
gages, watercourse realignment, improved culverts and outlets, animal
wallows and laundry sites, construction of small water storage tanks,
- 8 -



precision land leveling, rehabilitation of embankments, formation of
berms, protection of structures, provision of gates at the cross
regulators, minor irrigation schemes (involving water harvesting, and
partial perennial flow diversion), and office buildings for FOs/FWUAS.
Drainage and salinity do not appear to be a major problem except in
Salinity Control And Reclamation Project (SCARP) areas which are outside
of the project scope. Water tanks are completely concrete-lined and are
planned for barani areas where the water table is generally very deep;
they are typically used to capture and store water for (in some cases
supplemental) irrigation water and not for human or livestock
consumption.10.5 However, a number of issues of more strategic importance
and indirectly related to project activities, were identified: (i) weak
institutional capacity and enforcement of environmental regulation,
despite major initiatives during the last 10 years, (ii) wastewater
discharge into the irrigation/canal system and the resulting potential
health impacts (people use irrigation water for various purposes including
drinking); (iii) ground water monitoring (there is a need to consolidate
and update information on the status of ground water resources, as some
reports indicate potential mining and quality problems in some areas);
(iv) agro-chemical use and pest management, despite relatively low levels
of usage; (v) natural habitats (because of very little awareness of this
issues on the part of government officials and farmers; and (vi) need for
an adequate spatial knowledge-base and analytical capacity for effective
environmental and social mainstreaming into an integrated water resources
management framework. The project would help build awareness and capacity
within government agencies and FOs to deal with these issues over
time.10.6 The main project related social issues reviewed include: (i)
equity and benefits to the poor, who are either at the tail end of the
watercourse system, or are landless tenants or own very little land (thus
the key role of initial screening and targeting); (ii) inclusiveness of
farmer organizations (WUAs and FOs/FWUAs) particularly in relation to poor
framers (at the tail end of the watercourses), tenants, and women who have
no legal land ownership and irrigation rights; (iii) governance and
transparency of farmer organizations, having to do with the formation and
registration process (formally ensured by the new autonomous Frontier
Irrigation and Drainage Authority (FIDA), financial management and
decision making, as well as modes of representation and conflict
resolution (which will continue to be based on traditional conflict
resoul(iv) gender issues, because women are not included as irrigators and
do not have a direct role in the irrigation system due to local
constraints and culturally defined roles which determines activities they
can perform in this sector; and (v) social mobilization capacity of
government agencies and local NGOs/CBOs and their role in project
implementation (e.g., social infrastructure development,
training/awareness raising, and monitoring and evaluation). The project
will deal will all these issues directly as part of the process of forming
and empowering FOs/FWUAs. Women and landless tenants will benefit
indirectly from improved irrigation efficiency (e.g., increased household
income, access to safer drinking water) and directly though targeted
training and capacity building activities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rashed Ul Qayyum
9



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 16, 2001.
- 10 -



