Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3516 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 28, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3516 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 28, 2001, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the North West Frontier Province 
(NWFP) and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas Development Corporation (FATADC) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to NWFP and FATADC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
NWFP and FATADC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
Page  2
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means, in respect of the NWFP Special Account, 
Categories (1)(a), (2)(a)(i), (2) (b)(i), (3)(a) and (4)(a) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and, in respect of the FATADC Special 
Account, Categories (1)(b), (2)(a)(ii), (2)(b)(ii), (3)(b) and (4)(b) set forth in 
said table;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means, in respect of the NWFP Special Account, 
the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and, in respect of the FATADC 
Special Account, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; 
(c)
"FATA" means the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of the Borrower;
(d) 
"FATADC" means the FATA Development Corporation, established and existing 
under the Borrower’s Federally Administered Tribal Areas Development Corporation 
Regulation, 1970;
(e)
"FATADC Special Account" means the Special Account which the Borrower 
shall open and maintain for FATADC pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(f)
"FIDA" means the NWFP Frontier Irrigation and Drainage Authority;
(g)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year, covering the 
period July 1 through June 30;
(h)
"FO" means a Farmers’ Organization formed or to be formed for the 
rehabilitation, improvement and operation and maintenance of a distributary/minor 
canal located within a pilot AWB area;
(i)
"FWUA" means a Federation of Water Users Associations or a Distributary 
Association, as the case may be, formed or to be formed at the level of a 
distributary/minor canal or a local minor irrigation scheme;
(j)
"NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a political subdivision of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(k)
"NWFP Special Account" means the Special Account which the Borrower shall 
open and maintain pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(l)
"O&M" means Operation and Maintenance;
Page  3
(m)
"OFWM" means On-Farm Water Management;
(n)
"OFWM Directorate" means the On-Farm Water Management Directorate of 
NWFP;
(o)
"Pilot AWB Area" means an area where an Area Water Board has been, or is 
to be, formed on a pilot basis for carrying out irrigation and drainage management;
(p)
"PLL" means precision land leveling;
(q)
"PPC" means the Provincial Policy Committee of NWFP, to be constituted 
and maintained pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and in 
which FATADC shall be represented;
(r)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, NWFP and 
FATADC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(s)
"Project Management Report" or "PMR" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(t)
"Rs" or "rupees" means the Borrower’s currency;
(u)
"scheme" means any scheme for improving irrigation facilities under Part 
B of the Project, incorporating the entire process from formation of FOs/WUAs to 
physical investment, and "schemes" means all such schemes collectively;
(v)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(w)
"WUA" means a Water Users Association formed or to be formed at the level 
of a watercourse or a water storage tank.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause NWFP and FATADC to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all of the obligations of NWFP and FATADC therein 
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
NWFP and FATADC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to NWFP and FATADC in accordance with 
its standard budgetary procedures the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time, in respect of NWFP, to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a)(i), (2)(b)(i), (3)(a) and 
(4)(a) of the table set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,  and, in 
respect of FATADC, to Categories (1)(b), (2)(a)(ii), (2)(b)(ii), (3)(b) and (4)(b), of 
said table, for the purposes of  their respective activities under the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
Page  5
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the activities 
of NWFP and FATADC under the Project shall be carried out by NWFP and FATADC, 
respectively,  pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
NWFP or FATADC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that NWFP or FATADC will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FATADC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  6
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified  by NWFP and FATADC, and is legally binding upon NWFP 
and FATADC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of Section 
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMIC
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Page  7
By /s/ Nawid Ahsan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Abid Hasan
Acting Country Director, Pakistan
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit  the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
     % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
     (a)  NWFP
(i) Local minor 
irrigation 4,800,000
60%
schemes
(ii) Distributary/
minor canals
2,100,000
70%
(iii)
Main/
branch canals 1,000,000
80%
    (b)  FATADC
(i) Local minor 
irrigation 
  600,000
60%
schemes
(ii) Distributary/
minor canals
  200,000
70%
(2)
Goods:
(a)    Construction
65%
materials for water
courses, water storage
tanks, and on-farm 
improvements:
0
(i)
NWFP
     2,9700,000
(ii)
FATADC   100,000
(b)   Equipment, vehicles,
100% of foreign
and office furniture:
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 50% of 
local
expenditures
for other items
Page  8
procured locally
(i) NWFP
        450,000
(ii) FATADC
   50,000
(3)
Consultant services
100%
and training:
(a)
NWFP
1,500,000
(b)
FATADC
  300,000
(4)
Incremental administrative
90%
and operating costs:
(a)
NWFP
1,800,000
(b)
FATADC
  200,000
(5)
Unallocated             8,600,000
TOTAL
     16,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental administrative and operating costs" means the 
salaries and allowances and other emoluments of staff of NWFP’s Irrigation Department 
and/or FIDA, OFWM Directorate and FATADC, appointed to posts created after December 
31, 2000 and recruited in accordance with a project staffing plan acceptable to the 
Association for purposes of the Project, and the operating and maintenance costs of 
vehicles, equipment and offices acquired under and/or used in carrying out the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association  may require withdrawals from the Credit Account  to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 
equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and 
fellowships; (d) construction materials procured under community participation 
procedures; and (e) incremental administrative and operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars two (2) separate special deposit 
accounts, one each for NWFP and FATADC, in the National Bank of Pakistan, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association shall have received evidence satisfactory to them that a 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first each of the 
Project Management Reports referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; 
and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to 
this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of Project Management Reports pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
Page  9
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement or Section 
3.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for any Special Account or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements.  Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower 
of their determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determine at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association  
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determine at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association  such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of the NWFP 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Page  10
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $180,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the  General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR1,500,000; and (ii) in respect of the FATADC Special Account, an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $70,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR400,000. 
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit and deposit into said Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association  shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit and deposit 
into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account  shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account  under one or more of said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
Page  11
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association have determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000 in respect of 
the NWFP Special Account and $300,000 in respect of the FATADC Special Account. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce rural poverty through increased 
agricultural production leading to increased farm incomes by: (i) improving the 
reliability, efficiency and equity of distribution of available irrigation water; 
(ii) increasing on-farm water use efficiency; and (iii) enhancing the long-term 
financial sustainability of the irrigation system by supporting the government’s 
effort to foster self-sustaining farmer organizations (FOs).
The Project consists of the following  parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Development and Support
Carrying out of a social mobilization and support program to help establish, 
train and technically support: (i) FOs at the distributary/minor canal levels within 
the pilot AWB areas; and (ii) FWUAs at the distributary/minor canal levels outside the 
pilot AWB areas.
Part B:
Irrigation Facilities Improvement
1.
Watercourses, Water Storage Tanks, and other On-Farm Improvements
(a)
Renovation of watercourses, including the lining of selected sections, 
installation of permanent outlets (pucca  nuccas), construction of culverts, a limited 
number of check/drop structures, buffalo baths and laundry-sites, and improvement of 
earthen sections.
(b)
Carrying out of precision land leveling (PLL), including the provision of 
technical assistance needed therefor.
(c)
Construction of water storage tanks and associated watercourses in 
non-canal command areas.
(d)
Establishment of demonstration centers to demonstrate a full range of 
water management and irrigation agronomy techniques by adopting sustainable 
agricultural practices.
2.
Distributary/Minor Canals
Improvement of distributary/minor canals, including: (a) the repair of 
distributary gates, rehabilitation of diversion structures, de-silting and improvement 
of critical canal sections (including lining) and other such adjustments, and 
installation of water measuring structures and gauges, additional water control 
structures and guide sections for de-silting; and (b) the construction of new and/or 
renovation of existing government buildings for FOs/FWUAs’ use as offices.
3.
Main/Branch Canals
Rehabilitation and improvement of main and branch canals supplying water to 
distributary/minor canals on which FOs/FWUAs have been formed, including 
rehabilitation of embankments, formation of berms, protection of structures, 
plantation of trees along banks, and provision of gates and their motorization,  where 
needed, at the cross regulators.
4.
Local/Minor Irrigation
Carrying out/improvement of local/minor irrigation schemes in NWFP and FATA, 
including: (a) for purposes of perennial irrigation, the installation/construction of 
open wells, tubewells, lift pumps, karezes, springs and small diversions/channels; and 
Page  12
(b) for purposes of flood plain (sailaba) irrigation, the redesigning and 
rehabilitation of temporary (katcha) diversion  structures and off-taking channels and 
intermittent, non-perennial streams (nullahs/rod-kohis).
Part C:
Project Management Capacity Building
Strengthening of OFWM Directorate
and FATADC, for purposes of Project management 
and supervision, through the provision of office space, office and field equipment and 
vehicles, technical assistance and training.
Part D:
 Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, Studies and Training
1.
Carrying out of Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation including 
activities relating to accounting and auditing, and, to that end, strengthening of the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell/CellWing of the Planning, Environment and Development 
Department of NWFP through the provision of incremental staff, equipment and vehicles, 
and technical assistance.
2.
Carrying out of studies to facilitate the impact evaluation of the Project, 
particularly in terms of: (a) agricultural growth and crop  diversification; (b) 
income and employment, including secondary effects on the regional economy; (c) water 
use and equitable distribution; (d) groundwater aquifers and water quality; (e) 
FO/FWUA performance, particularly with alternate institutional arrangements as 
different forms of Transfer Management and Participatory Irrigation Management models 
with attention given to water pricing; (f) O&M and sustainability of the system; and 
(g) public expenditures.
3.
Provision of local training for Project staff in relevant fields, including 
water management, irrigation agronomy, social development and environment management, 
monitoring and evaluation, and procurement. 
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
