Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3516 PAK
Project Agreement
(NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated August 28, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3516 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 28, 2001, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP) and 
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (FATADC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 169,600,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that  NWFP and FATADC agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to NWFP and FATADC in accordance with the Borrower’s 
standard budgetary procedures; and
WHEREAS NWFP and FATADC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NWFP and FATADC declare their commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out their activities under the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and irrigation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for their 
activities under the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, NWFP and FATADC shall otherwise agree, NWFP and FATADC 
shall carry out their activities under the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NWFP and FATADC shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the activities to be carried out 
by NWFP and FATADC under the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) NWFP and FATADC shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of their activities 
under the Project, the performance of their obligations under this Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NWFP and FATADC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of their activities under 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
NWFP and FATADC of their obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and without limitation thereto, NWFP 
and FATADC shall:
(a)
prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association, NWFP and 
FATADC, a plan satisfactory to the Association for the future operation of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
NWFP and FATADC on such plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NWFP and FATADC shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b)
NWFP and FATADC shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  3
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, NWFP and FATADC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable NWFP and FATADC, not later than 
September 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report.
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, NWFP and FATADC shall each prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01.
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, NWFP 
and FATADC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify NWFP and FATADC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C
 64145 (MCI)
For NWFP:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning, Environment and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
DEVELOPMENT 952-52371
Peshawar, Pakistan
For FATADC:
The Managing Director
Federally Administered Tribal
 Areas Development Corporation 
2-Warsak Road
Peshawar, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NWFP and 
FATADC, or by NWFP and FATADC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the following persons such other person or 
persons as they shall designate in writing, and they shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person:
(a)
the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning, Environment and Development 
Department, NWFP, with respect to NWFP’s activities under the Project; and
(b)
the Managing Director, FATADC, with respect to FATADC’s activities under 
the Project.
Section 5.03.
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Abid Hasan
Acting Country Director, Pakistan
Page  5
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
By /s/ Tariq Mahmood
Authorized Representative
FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS
   DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Mohammad Javed
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section 1.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages to attract international bidders.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for contracts estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) (i)
Civil works required for Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project; 
and (ii) goods, other than vehicles and construction materials, estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
Page  6
the equivalent of $570,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 1.
(i)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages to attract 
national bidders.
(ii)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(aa)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of 
bids;
(bb)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;
(cc)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;
(dd)
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(ee)
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
(ff)
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;
(gg)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(hh)
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association’s 
prior concurrence shall be obtained; 
(ii)
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
unit prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates (CSR);
(jj)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates;
(kk)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; 
and 
(ll)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders.
2.
National Shopping
Goods, other than vehicles and construction materials, estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$220,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
For purposes of carrying out works for watercourses, water storage tanks and 
other on-farm improvements:
(a)
Labor shall be procured by the respective community organizations 
managing the works as part of their in-kind contribution towards the capital cost of 
the works; and
(b)
Construction materials may be procured, at the choice of the
 
respective 
community organizations managing the works, by the community organizations themselves 
or by the OFWM Directorate under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
Page  7
procedures in accordance with the  provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for vehicles; (ii) each contract for 
goods (other than vehicles) or civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; and (iii) the first contract for goods (other than vehicles) or 
civil works proposed to be awarded under the Project in each fiscal year and estimated 
to cost, in the case of goods (other than vehicles), the equivalent of $10,000 or more 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, or, in the case of civil works, less than 
the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant’s Guidelines, the references to the "Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be reference, respectively, 
to the "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for implementation, supervision, monitoring 
and evaluation, and accounting and auditing of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for implementation and supervision of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $2100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
Page  8
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
NWFP shall, not later than September 30, 2001, establish, and thereafter 
maintain, a PPC, with terms of reference, composition, staffing and other resources 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
NWFP and FATADC shall, not later than December 31, 2001, obtain PPC’s approval 
of an overall framework, satisfactory to the Association, for the selection of schemes 
including, inter alia, criteria for:
(a)
initial screening and area targeting;
(b)
information  dissemination  and demand promotion;
(c)
screening and identification of schemes;
(d)
baseline surveys and information system;
(e)
distributary environmental and social assessment;
(f)
mobilization and formation of FOs/FWUAs;
(g)
scheme investment planning and implementation;
(h)
capacity building/strengthening;
(i)
monitoring and evaluation; and 
(j)
institutional implementation arrangements.
3.
NWFP and FATADC shall, not later than March 31 in each year,  furnish to the 
Association, for its review and concurrence, a draft annual plan of Project 
activities, including a work program and proposed budget, for the next following 
Fiscal Year, all as approved by the relevant PPC.
4
.
NWFP and FATADC shall ensure: (a) that construction works under the Project will 
be carried out in accordance with design criteria and specifications satisfactory to 
the Association; and (b) that, in particular, the distributary/minor canals included 
in the Project will be rehabilitated to achieve sufficient capacity to deliver their 
full discharge entitlement determined on the basis of their share of the diversions at 
the head of the main canal command system over the previous ten years. 
5.
NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that no: (a) distributary/minor canals, water 
storage tank schemes, minor irrigation schemes, demonstration centers, offices for 
FOs/FWUAs,  canal service roads and any other activities involving land acquisition 
Page  9
shall be included in the Project without prior approval of the Association; and (b) 
such acquisition shall be carried out on a voluntary basis in accordance with the 
principles and procedures previously agreed with the Association. 
6.
NWFP and/or FATADC shall ensure that:
(a)
as a condition for obtaining assistance for renovation of a watercourse 
under Part B.1 (a) of the Project or for improvement of a distributary/minor canal 
under Part B.2 of the Project: 
(i) 
in a canal commanded area within the pilot AWB areas, the farmers 
of such area will have: (aa) formed an FO at the 
distributary/minor canal level; (bb) acting through such FO 
reached agreement with FIDA for the operation and maintenance 
(O&M) of the facilities on which the particular Project works are 
to be carried out; (cc) established that such FO has functioned 
well and operated and maintained such facilities effectively for a 
minimum period of one year thereafter; (dd) established that such 
FO has the technical capacity to participate in the carrying out 
of the particular Project works; and (ee) acting through such FO 
reached agreement with FIDA for the carrying out of the particular 
Project works and for sharing the costs thereof in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 8 of this Schedule;  
(ii) 
in a canal commanded area outside the pilot AWB areas, the farmers 
of such area will have: (aa) formed an FWUA at the 
distributary/minor level with the functions, powers and 
obligations specified for FWUAs in the Annex to this Schedule 2; 
(bb) acting through such FWUA reached agreement with FIDA or 
FATADC, as the case may be, for the operation and maintenance 
(O&M) of the facilities on which the particular Project works are 
to be carried out; (cc) acting through such FWUA reached agreement 
with FIDA or FATADC, as the case may be, for the carrying out of 
the particular Project works and for sharing the costs thereof in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8 of this Schedule; 
and 
(iii) for a distributary/minor canal, an environmental and social 
assessment has been made; and
(b)
as a condition for obtaining assistance for construction of a water 
storage tank and associated works under Part B.1(c) of the Project or for carrying out 
a local/minor irrigation scheme under Part B.4 of the Project in any other area for 
which an environmental and social assessment has been made, the farmers of such area 
will have: (i) formed a fully functioning WUA at the level of the particular Project 
works; (ii) established that such WUA has the technical capacity to participate in the 
carrying out of the particular Project works; and (iii) acting through such WUA 
reached agreement with OFWM Directorate or FATADC, as the case may be, for: (aa) 
sharing the costs of the particular Project works in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 8 of this Schedule; and (bb) for the carrying out of the particular Project 
works and the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the facilities on which the 
particular Project works are to be  carried out.
7.
NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that:
(a)
in respect of any works for renovation of watercourses and construction 
of water storage tanks and associated watercourses carried out under the Project, the 
farmers concerned will be required to contribute, through their respective WUAs, all 
of the skilled and unskilled labor, together with at least 25% equivalent in value of 
the materials required for such works up-front;
(b)
in respect of any PLL works carried out under the Project, the farmers 
concerned will be required to meet 100% of the cost of such works;
(c)
in respect of any works carried out under the Project for 
rehabilitation/improvement of distributary/minor canals located within pilot AWB 
areas, the farmers concerned will be required to meet up-front, through their FO, at 
least 10% of the cost of such works;
(d)
in respect of any works carried out under the Project for 
rehabilitation/improvement of distributary/minor canals located outside the pilot AWB 
Page  10
areas, the farmers concerned will be required to pay, through their respective FWUAs, 
at least 10% of the cost of such works in 10 equal installments payable semiannually 
over a period of 5 years along with the water charge (abiana) payments; 
(e)
in respect of any works for carrying out local/minor irrigation schemes 
under the Project, the farmers concerned will be required to meet up-front, through 
their respective WUAs/FWUAs, at least 20% of the cost of such works; and
(f)
in respect of all works, priority will be given to watercourses, water 
storage tanks, distributary/minor canals, and local/minor irrigation schemes located 
in the poorer regions with greater number of small land holdings.
8.
NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that representatives of any FO/FWUA participating 
in the carrying out of any Project works, and in the operation and maintenance (O&M) 
of the facilities on which such works are to be carried out, will be invited to 
participate in the procedures for inviting and evaluating bids and awarding contracts 
for the procurement of civil works and materials for such Project works.
9.
NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that: (a) a Financial Manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, will be developed and adopted by the OFWM
Directorate and FATADC, 
respectively, not later than October 31, 2001; and (b) a computerized Project 
Accounting and Management Information System, satisfactory to the Association, will be 
made fully operational by the OFWM Directorate and FATADC, respectively, not later 
than June 30, 2002.
10.
NWFP and FATADC shall ensure that:
(a)
procurement documentation and record keeping systems, all satisfactory to 
the Association, will be developed and adopted by the OFWM Directorate and FATADC, 
respectively not later than December 31, 2001; and
(b)
key procurement staff of the OFWM Directorate and FATADC, respectively 
will be identified, trained in the Association’s procurement procedures and designated 
as focal points for procurement for the duration of the Project, all not later than 
December 31, 2001.
11.
NWFP and FATADC shall cause surveys to be carried out every six months, to 
determine the prevailing market prices of construction materials used in the 
improvement of watercourses and construction of water storage tanks and associated 
watercourses under the Project.
12.
NWFP and FATADC shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, by January 31, 2004, reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said reports and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Annex to SCHEDULE 2
Powers and Functions of
Federations of Water Users Associations 
FWUAs shall actively participate, along with NWFP Provincial Irrigation 
Department (PID)/NWFP Irrigation and Drainage Authority (FIDA) oror FATADC, as the 
case may be, in the improvement, operation and maintenance of distributaries/minor 
canals located within their jurisdictions, and to that end, shall be: 
Page  11
(a)
authorized, inter alia, to:
(i)
make recommendations and requests to PID/FIDA oror FATADC, as the 
case may be, with regard to such matters as: (aa) the distribution 
of water into a distributary/minor canal on a demand or fixed 
delivery basis; and (bb) the construction of facilities including 
bridges, regulators, drop structures, and new minor canals on a 
cost-sharing or other basis;
(ii)
enter into contracts with PID/FIDA oror FATADC, as the case may 
be, for the supply of canal water on a flat rate basis at the 
outlet level, or on a volumetric rate basis at the 
distributary/minor canal level, as provided in the relevant canal 
rules, or any other basis acceptable to the Association, instead 
of the crop rate basis commonly used for this purpose, and for 
collecting and paying water charges at the agreed rate;
(iii) represent their members on issues and problems relating to a 
distributary/minor canal or more than one distributary or the 
whole canal; and
(iv) 
generally represent their members in various forums, particularly 
government departments including PID/FIDA, FATADC and NWFP 
Agriculture Department, and serve as a channel of communication 
between such members and such departments; and 
(b)
obligated, inter alia, to:
(i)
obtain the approval of their members before committing or 
undertaking or participating in any major capital expenditures or 
improvements; 
(ii)
obtain the approval of the relevant canal officers before 
undertaking or participating in any improvement schemes, and carry 
out such schemes under the supervision of such officers;
(iii)
maintain financial records and minutes of meetings; and
(iv)
adopt by-laws and rules of operation.
