                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000584




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-35160)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION

                       (US$ 21.35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                      FOR A

              NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                               November 23, 2007




South Asia Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 23, 2007)

                           Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee (Rs)
                                   Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.0164
                                   US$1.00 = Rs 60.90

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     July 1 - June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank                  IDA           International Development
                                                             Association
AWB    Area Water Board                        IDMTA         Irrigation and Drainage Management
                                                             Transfer Agreement
DESA   Distributary Environmental & Social     JIMM          Joint Irrigation Management Model
       Assessment
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy             LMIS          Localized Minor Irrigation Schemes
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                 MTR           Mid-term Review
FATA   Federally-Administered Tribal Areas     M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
FATADC FATA Development Corporation            NDP           National Drainage Project
FIDA   NWFP Irrigation & Drainage              NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
       Authority
                                               NWFP          North West Frontier Province
FISSP  Framework for Identifying and           O&M           Operations and Maintenance
       Screening Sub-projects
FO     Farmer Organization                     PDO           Project Development Objective
FWUA   Federation of Water User                PIAC          Project Implementation and
       Associations                                          Assistance Consultants
GoNWFP Government of North West Frontier       PID           Provincial Irrigation Department
       Province
IA     Implementing Agency                     TA            Technical Assistance
IBIS   Indus Basin Irrigation System           WUA           Water User Association



                              Vice President: Praful D. Patel
                            Country Director: Yusupha Crookes
                             Sector Manager: Adolfo Brizzi
                        Project Team Leader: Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan
                           ICR Team Leader: Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan




                                            ii

                                                         PAKISTAN
                            NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project1




                                                         CONTENTS
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies............................. 14

Annexes:

Annex 1: Outputs by Component ..................................................................................... 16
Annex 2: Economic and Financial Analyses .................................................................... 23
Annex 3: Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 29
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 30
Annex 5: Implementing Agency's Comments on draft ICR Report................................. 31
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 32
Map ................................................................................................................................... 33




1NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project will be referred to, hereafter as "the Project".




                                                                  iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Noth West Frontier
                                                                       Province On-Farm
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                       Water Management
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P071092                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35160
ICR Date:               12/10/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 16.6M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 14.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Agriculture Department, OFWM Wing
Federally Administered Tribal Areas FATA Governors Secretariat
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/15/1997    Effectiveness:         11/14/2001          11/14/2001
Appraisal:             06/27/1998    Restructuring(s):                          03/28/2004
Approval:              06/12/2001    Mid-term Review:                           03/24/2004
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006          03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                           Yes                                     None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               1                  1
Flood protection                                               21                 25
Irrigation and drainage                                        67                 65
Other social services                                          11                  9


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary           Primary
Rural policies and institutions                               Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary          Secondary
Water resource management                                     Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:            Praful C. Patel                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes              John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Adolfo Brizzi                   Adolfo Brizzi
Project Team Leader:       Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan          Rashed Ul Qayyum
ICR Team Leader:           Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan
ICR Primary Author:        Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall goal of the project is to increase agricultural growth and productivity and
expand farm incomes. This objective would be achieved by: (a) improving the reliability,
efficiency and equity of distribution of available irrigation water; (b) increasing on-farm



                                             ii

water use efficiency; and (c) enhancing long-term financial sustainability of the irrigation
system by supporting the government's effort to foster self sustaining farmer
organizations (FOs).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
None.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase in agricultural productivity of FOs/FWUAs/WUAs through enhancing
                cropping intensities in the target project areas (C.I)

Value                                                                           C.I of 1.20-1.30

quantitative or C.I of 1.13                 C.I of 1.24 (or     C.I of 1.24 (or (or 6-15%

Qualitative)                                10% increase)       10% increase) increases)

Date achieved 11/05/2001                    06/30/2006          06/30/2006      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Increase in agricultural productivity of FOs/FWUAs/WUAs through enhancing
                crop yields in the target project area.
                                            The average crop
                                            yields to be
                                            increased on

Value           The actual crop yields at average by 8% or                      The average crop
quantitative or baseline period: Wheat - reach:                                 yields have
Qualitative)    1.55 t/ha; Maize - 1.4      Wheat - 1.67 t/ha;
                t/ha; Sugarcane - 76.0 t/haMaize - 1.51 t/ha;                   increased by 9-21%

                                            Sugarcane - 82.0
                                            t/ha

Date achieved 11/05/2001                    06/30/2006                          06/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Watercourses improved to increase water use efficiency
Value           No improvements were        1730                1730           1611 watercourses/



                                                 iii

(quantitative   made in selected          watercourses/        watercourses/ storage tanks have
or Qualitative) watercourses/storage      storage tanks to be storage tanks been improved in
                tanks in the Province     improved in the      to be improvedthe Province
                                          Province             in the Province

Date achieved 11/05/2001                  06/30/2006           06/30/2006     06/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Farmers organized into associations at the distributary/minor and local levels
                where system improvement will be carried out by the Project

Value           No FOs/FWUAs in the       53 new FOs/          53 new FOs/    53 new FOs/

(quantitative   project area              FWUA to be           FWUA to be     FWUA have been

or Qualitative)                           developed            developed      established and
                                                                              supported
Date achieved 11/05/2001                  06/30/2006           06/30/2006     06/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Distributaries and local/minor irrigation systems improved, and proper
                management structures, systems and facilities put in place
                                                                              14 distributaries
                                                               21             fully completed; 2

                No improved               21 distributaries to distributaries distributaries

Value           distributaries in the     be improved. 20      to be          completed around

(quantitative   project area. No branch branch canals to beimproved.      No 80%, and 5

or Qualitative) canals improved in the    improved in the      branch canal   distributaries

                project area.             project area.        to be improvedcompleted between
                                                               in the project 47-78%. No branch
                                                               area.          canal was improved
                                                                              through the Project.
Date achieved 05/11/2001                  06/30/2006           06/30/2006     06/27/2007

Comments        At Mid-term Review, the component on branch canal improvement was

(incl. %        cancelled at the GoNWFP request, because GoNWFP made a separate

achievement)    arrangement to remodel and rehabilitate the branch canals through an Asian
                Development Bank-financed project.

Indicator 4 :   Help water user associatioins construct new Water Tanks in Barani areas of the
                Province

Value           No water tanks were                            350 water      496 new water
(quantitative   available in selected     350 water tanks to   tanks to be    tanks have been
or Qualitative) Barani areas of the       be constructed
                Province                                       constructed    constructed

Date achieved 11/05/2001                  06/30/2006           06/30/2006     06/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                     IP              Disbursements
                                                                  (USD millions)
 1    10/24/2001        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                  0.00
 2    10/24/2001        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                  0.00
 3    12/06/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.00
 4    05/23/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.47
 5    10/16/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.58
 6    04/24/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.90
 7    10/30/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   1.60
 8    04/15/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   2.55
 9    07/15/2004       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  3.08
10    12/26/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   4.00
11    06/03/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   5.01
12    12/13/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   6.62
13    05/02/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 13.37
14    12/08/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 19.14
15    06/26/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 20.55



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                  Restructuring
              PDO Change                                   Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP    in USD
                                           millions
  03/28/2004        N         S      S         2.44




                                        v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1     Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Agriculture is the backbone of Pakistan's economy employing 47% of its labor force and
earning 70% of export revenue. The irrigated agriculture is the most important feature of
the sector as it supports more than 90% of total agricultural production. At the time of
project appraisal, the irrigation and drainage systems of Pakistan were faced with severe
problems including water scarcity, water-logging and salinity, over-exploitation of
ground water, inadequate operation and maintenance (O&M) and insufficient cost
recovery. The average delivery efficiency varied between 35-40% from the canal head to
the root zone. This was exacerbated by inequitable water distribution and unauthorized
outlets and illegal pumping from canals. There were no effective forums for farmers to
raise their concerns and excessive roles of the Government in irrigation management did
not encourage meaningful participation of farmers' in the system management.

The Project was conceived in the context of the National Drainage Program (NDP),
which was under implementation at that time. The NDP approved in November 1997 was
a country-wide program with ambitious reform agenda of improving water resources
management, enhancing institutions, and rehabilitating a large part of the country's
drainage infrastructure. Its component on North West Frontier Province (NWFP) was
designed to help the Government of NWFP (GoNWFP) in restructuring the Provincial
Irrigation Department (PID) by establishing autonomous Frontier Irrigation and Drainage
Authority (FIDA) at the provincial level, and commercially oriented Area Water Boards
(AWBs) at the canal level to operate the main and branch canals, and participatory farmer
organizations (FOs) for the operation and management of the system at distributary and
minor levels.

The Project was designed to support the implementation of the national reform agenda
initiated under NDP through promoting FOs and improving irrigation infrastructures at
distributary/minor levels. The Project was also to benefit from new institutions being
created under NDP such as FIDA and AWB, whose main mandates were to supply the
newly established FOs with irrigation water and provide them with essential institutional
and other supports. The formation of FOs with clear devolved roles for the operation and
management of the secondary level irrigation channels and recovery of water rates
(abiana) was the central concept of the Project. This new feature was based on lessons
learned from Bank's two pilot projects, which promoted participatory irrigation
management through Federation of Water User Associations (FWUAs) at Pabbi and
Surizai Minors in NWFP of Pakistan, and also from other Bank projects successfully
implemented in Latin America and East Asia.

The Project supported the goals of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Pakistan for sustainable growth and poverty reduction through: (i) promoting agricultural



                                              1

growth and crop diversification by improving the reliability, timeliness and equity in the
distribution of irrigation water at the farm level; (ii) establishing a decentralized, self-
sustaining and participatory apparatus for the operation and management of the irrigation
and drainage systems; and (iii) focusing on the participation of communities, Non-
Government Organizations, and the private sector in the institutional arrangements and
processes.

The Project targeted on NWFP, one of the poor provinces of Pakistan, where irrigated
agriculture is a prominent feature. In NWFP, 85% of total population lived in rural areas
(compared with 67% of national average), and was significantly dependent on irrigated
agriculture. The irrigated agriculture accounted for 51% of the cultivated area and
supported about 60% of total agricultural production of the province.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The overall objective of the Project was to increase agricultural growth and productivity
and expand farm incomes. This objective was to be achieved by: (a) improving the
reliability, efficiency and equity of distribution of available irrigation water; (b)
increasing on-farm water use efficiency; and (c) enhancing long-term financial
sustainability of the irrigation system by supporting the government's effort to foster self-
sustaining FOs.

1.3       Revised PDO

The original PDO remained relevant and was not revised.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

At the time of project design, the Project targeted a population of some 2.2 million people
of NWFP, constituting about 11% of the provincial including Federally-Administered
Tribal Areas (FATA) population. The Project was to directly benefit the irrigated
agriculture covering about 0.23 million ha.2 The Project was to yield economic benefits
in terms of higher agricultural output, greater rural employment, equitable distribution of
water, and stronger irrigation and drainage sector institutions. The original target for
beneficiaries remained unchanged.

1.5       Original Components

The following six components were envisaged at appraisal: (i) Community Development
and Support Program; (ii) Distributary-level Improvement Program; (iii) Watercourse
and On-farm Improvements Program; (iv) Improvements in Branch/Distributary Canals;
(v) Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Development Program outside the Indus Basin
Irrigation System (IBIS); and (vi) Project Management Support Component.


2Of this total area, 0.21 million ha lie in the provincially administered area of NWFP and 0.02 million ha in FATA.




                                                              2

1.6      Revised Components

After Bank's Mid-term Review (MTR), the fourth component of the Project, i.e
Improvements in Branch Canals was cancelled at the GoNWFP request. The main reason
was that during implementation, the Implementing Agency (IA)3 selected a number of
distributary canals for rehabilitation, for which the branch canals had already been
remodeled through an Asian Development Bank (ADB)-assisted project. The original
design of the Bank-assisted Project was such that rehabilitation works on distributary
canals were to be done in conjunction with rehabilitation of their branch canals. Since
this need was no longer there due to selection of specific distributary canals as explained
above, during MTR, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the component on
Improvements in Branch/Distributary Canals. The cancellation of this component did not
affect the achievement of the overall PDO.

1.7      Other Significant Changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The following significant changes occurred during implementation: (i) substantial
amount of credit saving was observed in rehabilitation components of the Project; (ii)
farmers contributions in rehabilitation of distributaries/minors were reduced to reflect
their affordability; (iii) the PID was brought in as key partner after the MTR; and (iv) the
credit closing date was extended by nine months (till March 31, 2007) reflecting
accumulated delays in project implementation. 4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Before project approval, a thorough preparatory work was done to ensure that key lessons
learned from similar projects and programs were incorporated into the design of the
current Project. In particular, the involvement of beneficiaries in managing the
distributaries and minor canals through formation and support of FOs was a key feature
of the Project to ensure the successful implementation and sustainability of the Project.
However, there were several design-related aspects that adversely affected the project
performance including: (i) inadequate project management setup; (ii) insufficient
coordination, particularly the lack of involvement of the PID in the Project; and (iii)
underestimation of efforts and time needed for social mobilization and support activities.




3The Agriculture Department of NWFP has been designated as project's IA.

4Further discussions on changes in PID role and credit savings are provided in Sections 2.1 (Project Preparation,
Design and Quality At Entry) and 2.2 (Implementation).




                                                          3

Project Management Setup. The project design envisaged that there would be no
separate project management unit. Instead, the existing government structure was to be
used to oversee the project implementation. The Director, Water Management,
Agriculture Department was assigned as Project Director on a part-time basis. The
technical supervision was delegated to the Project Implementation and Assistance
Consultants (PIAC).5 The PIAC was of the view that the Government was not providing
full support or taking timely decisions on critical implementation issues. As a result of
such arrangement, proper ownership of the Project by GoNWFP could not be secured and
the Project suffered from lack of effective day-to-day management especially during
project start-up.          During the MTR this issue was raised with the GoNWFP and
suggestions were made to rectify it. However, the problems continued until project
completion. A more structured project management unit with sufficient number of full-
time staff for day-to-day project management and supervision would have produced
better results given the complexity of the Project.

Role of the PID. A key feature of the Project was to introduce institutional change
through promotion of FOs/Water User Associations (WUAs) and to improve the
irrigation infrastructure at the distributaries/minors level. Whereas these functions, by
definition, lay clearly within the mandate of the PID, the roles and responsibilities of the
PID, in the context of this Project, were never elaborated clearly. This resulted in the lack
of commitment by the PID often leading to delayed preparation of feasibility studies of
individual subprojects, and insufficient attention to procurement and the supervision of
civil works for irrigation improvement. During the MTR the issue was raised with the
GoNWFP and some measures were taken to rectify the situation including the
appointment of senior staff within the PID to oversee the implementation of these
components, and increased efforts to improve the coordination between the PID and the
project management. However, the issue could not be resolved fully during the project
period.

Social Mobilization and Support Process. According to project design, the social
mobilization and support process had to take place first, and its completion was an
essential prerequisite for commencement of project's investment activities. However, the
actual social mobilization process took much longer time (three years) and proved to be
much more challenging task than anticipated.6 As a result, the physical rehabilitation
works were delayed until the fourth year of the Project. This, in turn, created significant
pressure to complete the investment components within very short period. An important
lesson learned from this process is that for projects with substantial social mobilization
activities, there is a need to make an upfront investment in social mobilization activities
long before project approval.


5A consortium of international and local consulting firms responsible for technical supervision of the Project.

6Social mobilization and support program involved a long process including: (i) formation of farmer organizations, (ii)
carrying out of the detailed baseline surveys for the subprojects, (iii) preparing and using the Framework for Identifying
and Screening Sub-projects FISSP; (iv) carrying out Distributary Environmental and Social Assessments (DESAs), and
(v) signing of Irrigation and Irrigation and Drainage Management Agreements for transfer of distributaries/minor
channels to FOs.



                                                            4

2.2     Implementation

The Project has achieved the originally envisaged outputs substantially. A recent impact
evaluation study7 indicates that the project outcomes have been substantial. But, the
project implementation was delayed by nine months, and some of the originally
envisaged outputs could not be achieved because of factors such as: (i) the reform
institutions established under NDP (such as FIDA/AWB) were not effective; (ii) poor
project coordination and management; (iii) weak supervision and oversight by the PID;
and (iv) law and order situation in the project area.

NDP's Impact on the Project. FIDA/AWBs established under NDP were to provide
essential institutional framework for the Project to advance its reform agenda at
distributary level. AWBs were expected to be an effective interface with FOs providing
them with water up to heads of distributaries/minors and other essential services and
supports. However, due to lack of commitment from the Government, weakness of the
PID, and faulty designs, NDP could not deliver effective institutions as originally
envisaged. This affected on the performance of the Project adversely, especially during
the earlier phases of its implementation. For instance, the transfer of irrigation
management of distributaries/minors was a prolonged and half-hearted process. It took
more than three years to transfer six distributary canals to FOs, which in turn delayed the
implementation of investments activities. The failure of NDP also affected the
commitment and attitude of the provincial irrigation authorities towards the reform
process, particularly the project efforts to empower FOs.

Project Coordination and Management. The lack of adequate coordination among
implementing agencies caused delays especially at the beginning of the Project. This was
caused mainly by the fact that a large number of agencies (Agriculture Department, PID,
Planning and Development Department, PIAC, and FATA Agencies) were involved in
the implementation of individual components of the Project. This was exacerbated by the
inadequate project management setup. During implementation, this problem was resolved
partly through regularizing the monthly meetings of the Project Implementation Review
Committee, involving all participating organizations to discuss issues, find ways of
resolving problems, and closely monitoring the implementation progress.

Supervision and Oversight of the PID. Under the PID oversight, most small-size civil
works contracts were generally awarded to pre-registered contractors on the basis of the
lowest bid price. During selection process, a primary focus on lowest bid without giving
due attention to financial and technical capacities of the contractors resulted in selection
of poorly performing contractors. In some cases the contractors either abandoned their
works or handed them over to sub-contractors, which created serious problems.
Construction Committees consisting of the PID and PIAC staff, FOs/FWUAs




7A project impact assessment study was carried out by the Provincial Planning and Development Department in
November 2006 and the final report was released in August 2007.




                                                         5

representatives were established, to oversee the quality control and service standards but
this brought only moderate improvement in civil works supervision.

Law and Order Situation. The project implementation was also adversely affected by the
developments taken place in Afghanistan after the September 11, 2001 event8 due to
close proximity of the project area to Afghanistan border. This particularly affected the
deployment of PIAC's staff, which in turn, delayed the project activities such as social
assessments, institutional analysis, baseline surveys and beneficiary consultations
including the critical activity of preparing FISSP. However, a momentum was generated
later to complete the preparatory activities. Also, unfavorable weather conditions of 2005
(snowfall in early part, floods in March and in July), and earthquake of high magnitude in
October 2005 adversely affected the implementation progress.

Project Cost and Financing. At credit closing date of March 31, 2007, the actual project
cost was US$ 16.84 million, which represents 52.5% of project costs estimated at
appraisal. The International Development Association (IDA) fund was US$ 21.35 million.
The savings came mainly from: (i) reduced need for rehabilitation of distributaries
especially in Maira branch of Machezai canal command areas; (ii) smaller sizes of
distributaries rehabilitated during project implementation;9 and (iii) overestimation of
Localized Minor Irrigation Schemes (LMIS) costs at appraisal.10 The savings of US$ 3.47
million were cancelled on August 2, 2004. Furthermore, at the request to the borrower, an
amount of US$ 7.5 million was diverted to the Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
3516-10 PAK, Part Z), which started in 2006 in NWFP.11 The table below provides a
summary of the costs by source of funds. Further details on cost comparisons are in
Annex 3.

                         Cost Estimates at Appraisal and Project Completion
   Source of Fund                        Appraisal               Actual/Latest            Percentage of
                                         Estimates                  Estimates             Appraisal (%)
                                       (US$ million)             (US$ million)
   IDA                                             21.35                       13.37                    62.62
   Government                                       3.70                         1.90                   51.35
   Farmers                                          7.00                         1.64                   23.43
   Total                                           32.05                       16.91                    52.76



8The Project became effective in November 2001, i.e. two months after the September 11 event.

9The command area of an average rehabilitated distributary canal was about 2,700 ha compared to 4,900 ha estimated
at appraisal.

10 The actual per unit rehabilitation cost of LMIS was Rs 9 millions compared to Rs. 13 million estimated at appraisal.

11The Part Z (Emergency Rehabilitation Project) is designed to restore the key irrigation and social infrastructure
damaged by 2005 flood and earthquake in NWFP and its financing comes from three different sources: (i) current
Project (US$ 7.5 million), (ii) Community Infrastructure Project-II (Cr. 3906 PAK) (US$ 12.5 million), and (iii) new
IDA funding (US$ 10 million). The Part Z is expected to be completed in December 2008. Since there is a substantial
gap between project completion dates of the Project and Part Z, the ICR of the latter will be prepared and submitted in
conjunction with Community Infrastructure Project- II, whose anticipated completion date is December 2009.




                                                          6

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E design set at appraisal envisaged three sub-implementation agencies covering
the monitoring aspects of their respective components/sub-components, and the lead IA
was to produce regular monitoring reports in a collated form. Adequate monitoring
indicators were identified at the outset, including watercourses and water storage tanks
identified by location, WUA formed and registered, and technical and cost parameters,
including cost recovery from the users.

During implementation, the data was regularly collected, collated, tabulated and analyzed
for the preparation of monitoring reports for various management forums and committees.
Good quality quarterly reports were generated on regular basis during the implementation
period. For the purpose of baseline data and information and evaluating project outcomes
and outputs at the end of the Project, regular staff of the M&E Unit was not used; rather
these tasks were contracted out to consulting firms specialized in baseline survey and
impact assessment. The Project, therefore, had a good baseline report and also produced a
timely impact evaluation report at its completion.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Aspects. The preparatory team of fourth national OFWM, which became the basis
of this project made specific recommendations for Distributary Environmental and Social
Assessment (DESA). Based on these recommendations, the Project Management Office
developed the guidelines for DESA which were approved by the Bank in 2004. These
were implemented on pilot basis in AWB Mardan which later became a part of the
baseline surveys in other project areas. During project implementation, no significant
negative social impacts were observed.

Environmental Aspects. Prior to project appraisal, a general review of potential
environmental issues was conducted. Given the nature of the issues identified, and the
fact that the Project involved mainly environmentally beneficial works and construction
works for minor irrigation schemes with little and easily manageable environmental
impacts, the Project was classified as category "B". Also, prior to project commencement,
a rapid screening and scoping exercise was conducted, which concluded that no major
issues are expected. During project implementation, an Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) was developed and became part of FOs/FWUAs/WUAs formation and their
capacity building program. The implementation of DESA and gender related safeguards
have been satisfactory. The findings of the ex-post assessment report indicate that no
major environmental impacts occurred except for several cases of tree cutting in
watercourse areas where civil works were carried out, but later on farmers replanted the
trees.

Procurement. During implementation, problems prevailed in procurements mainly due to
weak capacity of implementation agencies and the consultants. Lack of adequate



                                             7

procurement planning was a major issue. The limited work windows due to canal
openings, and climatic constraints were not taken fully into consideration during planning,
making the contract completion periods unrealistic. In general, support from design and
supervision consultants in areas such as preparation and evaluation of bidding documents
was inadequate. Contract management was weak as there was insufficient monitoring of
delays, approvals for extensions and documentation of revised completion dates. Keeping
in view the security situation, limited number of contractors in the market and capacity of
contractors in some areas such as Chitral, the Bank provided a special waiver for
reducing response time to 15 days and also allowed the required bidding capacity for post
qualification to be equal to the estimated annual cashflow. This proved useful in
encouraging competition. As a result of such flexibilities provided by the Bank, and also
due to increased efforts by the project implementation team, the IA's capacity in
procurement management improved towards the end of the Project.

Financial Management. During project preparation, a detailed review of financial
management aspect of the Project was carried out, which formed the basis of specific
financial management and auditing arrangements. During the initial period of project
implementation, there were some difficulties in the preparation of quarterly financial
management reports. However, these were resolved through guidance and training from
Bank staff. Staffing, internal controls, maintenance of proper books of accounts including
IDA Special Account, fund flow and financial reporting were largely adequate and
satisfactory. Annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial management
reports of the Project were generally submitted to the Bank on time. Adequate
counterpart funds were made available during project implementation. No major issues
related to financial management were encountered during implementation.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The farmer organizations formed under the Project are responsible for the operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems, and are also expected to provide marketing,
production and other services to their members eventually. However, most of these
farmer organizations are less than three years old, and their capacities are still weak in
many areas including technical, managerial, and financial aspects of FO/FWUA
management. The GoNWFP needs to institutionalize its policy, advisory and capacity
building supports to FOs/FUA/WUAs through establishing a specific unit/cell within the
PID or other relevant departments and provide them with necessary financial resources.
In its final year of implementation, the Project organized a workshop aimed at improving
the sustainability of the WUA Federation established in civil canal areas. This was a
useful exercise for the Government agencies and FOs for it allowed taking stock of key
lessons learned, and determining the future actions needed for strengthening and
promoting farmer organizations in civil canal areas. However, ensuring the sustainability
of FOs and WUA Federation will require much greater and long-term commitment from
the GoNWFP. In such activities, the GoNWFP needs external technical support. The
Bank's continued dialogue with GoNWFP on the irrigation reform agenda would further
strengthen the activities of FOs/WUAs.




                                              8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) remains relevant to the current development
priorities of the NWFP (including FATA). The project design entails beneficiary
participation in irrigation management at farm- and as well as at secondary levels of the
irrigation systems, which is an important development priority of current Government
agenda. The Project is consistent with Government's ongoing program of National
Program for Watercourse Improvement, which aims at improving water use efficiency at
farm level through physical investments in water courses and institutional strengthening
of WUAs. The Project has a major watercourse improvement component.

The PDO is also consistent with Bank's CAS. The CAS states that the Bank will continue
supporting the institutional reforms and investments of irrigation and drainage sectors of
Pakistan through improvements of quality, efficiency, and accountability of irrigation
service delivery and strengthening of capacities of national institutions. The project
activities are aimed at improving efficiency and reliability of irrigation water supplies in
NWFP, and promoting FOs/FWUAs as a main vehicle for improving the irrigation
management at secondary canal levels of contiguous irrigation system.

The project implementation process was based on sound principles of program planning
and budgeting, accountability, monitoring and evaluation, and merit-based decision
making by the project management through various mechanisms.                    An effective
implementation support was provided by the Bank through its regular implementation
review missions and prompt responses to specific issues and requests made by the IA.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes)

As a main prerequisite for achieving PDO, the Project has amply delivered on its key
outputs. As originally planned, the Project facilitated the establishment and operation of
53 FOs/FWUAs, which are today in charge of operation and maintenance of
distributaries, and responsible for collecting water service charges (abiana). The Project
rehabilitated a total of 21 distributary canals, 31 local minor irrigations systems, 1,115
watercourses and constructed 496 new water tanks, which are either in line with or
exceed the original targets. This included the rehabilitation of 2 distributary canals and 50
watercourses in FATA, which despite serious security difficulties achieved its targets (see
Annex 1).

However, activities related to rehabilitation of 20 branch canals as originally planned
were cancelled because the Government completed these tasks through another ADB-
financed project, hence this did not affect the overall project outcome. The findings of the




                                              9

project impact assessment study12 show that the irrigated area in the project districts has
been increased due to improved irrigation infrastructure. The impact assessment study
also reports that in the surveyed project areas, the cropping intensity has been increased
by 20-30% and per ha yields of major crops have registered an increase ranging from 9 to
21% over the similar baseline indicators determined during the early stages of project
implementation. Today, the farmers in the project area are much more aware of their
roles in managing water resources at distributaries, minors, and watercourse levels
through FOs/FWUAs/WUAs. These results are expected to lead to significant increases
in farm incomes, and contribute to poverty reduction in the project area covering 2.2
million population in NWFP. More details on the achievements of PDO and project
outputs are in Annex 1 (Outputs by Components).

3.3         Efficiency

(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

At appraisal, the net present value (NPV) of the Project was estimated at US$ 16.5
million and the economic rate of return (ERR) at 26.6% for the investment cost of
rehabilitating 22 distributary/minor canals and 20 branch canals, improving 1,730
watercourses, and constructing/rehabilitating 31 LMIS. Also the overall financial rate of
return (FRR) was estimated at 24.3%.

At completion, the re-estimated NPV is US$ 23.7 million and ERR is 30.2% for the
Project, both slightly higher than those estimated at appraisal. The re-estimated benefit-
cost ratio of the Project is 3.3 at project completion. The FRR at implementation
completion is estimated at 26.7%. More details on revised economic and financial
analyses are in Annex 2.


3.4         Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The main development objectives and design features of the Project were relevant to the
challenges faced by and circumstances surrounding the Pakistan's water sector. The
Project achieved all its key outputs and deliverables including establishment and
operation of FOs/FWUAs, transfer of irrigation and drainage systems to farmer
organizations,            rehabilitation         and       improvements             of       originally targeted
distributaries/minors, and watercourses. Today, the irrigation infrastructure rehabilitated
under the Project is serving some 132,000 ha of irrigated land upon which the livelihoods
of some 2 million people are directly or indirectly dependent. Even though it is still



12During November 2006- June 2007, the GoNWFP carried out an impact evaluation study for the Project to establish
its initial project impacts in terms of improved water use efficiency, crop yield and farm incomes.



                                                           10

premature to make a final conclusion about project outcome, the initial evidence of the
impact assessment study shows that, in the surveyed areas, the Project achieved its main
objectives by improving irrigation water supply, cropping intensities, yields, and most
importantly introducing new forms of farmer groups- FOs- at distributary/minors level.
The Project achieved its main objectives with significantly less costs (50%) than
originally envisaged and that the EIRR estimated at project completion is satisfactorily
high. However, the uncertainty about the sustainability of the farmer organizations is a
major concern, due to which the overall project outcomes were assessed as moderately
satisfactory.


3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

At this stage, there is no sufficient information to confirm project's contribution to
poverty alleviation. However, the findings of the project impact assessment study suggest
that there would be a significant increase in farm production and income in selected
project areas contributing to poverty alleviation. Further, the impact assessment study
confirms that tenants, landless and women have benefited from project interventions.

The gender development program was introduced later in the project life and it was
carried out on pilot basis on 5 FOs of Mardan district over a short period of ten months.
As a result, it did not demonstrate any significant impact in the overall project area except
for the limited pilot area. The gender development program focused on training of 21
females as master trainers in 15 different farm- and nonfarm related skills. The training
activities resulted mainly in skills enhancement among women while a few women also
initiated small scale enterprises. Early and more systematic start of the gender
development program would be needed to achieve a greater impact. Also, sufficient
budgets should be allocated to gender development programs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

FOs/FWUAs established under the Project formed the basis for decentralized and self-
sustaining institutional apparatus at the local level. It is for the first time that under this
Project, six distributaries/minors were fully transferred to FOs in the province. This is
considered as a major achievement in setting a real example of transferring the irrigation
management to beneficiaries at secondary canal levels. But it will require a continued and
intensive support from GoNWFP to strengthen them further and expand the current
model to other areas in the province. The Project also facilitated the formation of 16
FWUAs under Joint Irrigation Management Model (JIMM) and 31 FWUAs on
Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes.




                                             11

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

The main risks to development outcome are: (i) the lack of long-term commitment and
support of FOs/FWUA by GoNWP; and (ii) the overall weak framework for O&M
arrangements for sustainable management of the distributaries and minors, which have
been transferred to FOs.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The concept of promoting farmer organizations as main vehicle for improving water
delivery service and enhancing water use efficiency is considered as strategically relevant
and correct approach. During project preparation, the Bank team worked to meet the
Government priorities, and took into account the experiences and lessons of past projects
both in and outside the country. Thanks to close collaboration between Bank team and
the GoNWFP, the project preparation team was able to translate the concepts of
FOs/FWUs in practice. However, the Bank team did not fully appreciate the need for
more effective project management setup, and the importance of close involvement of the
PID in project implementation given the complexity of and the political economy
surrounding the Project. Also, the implications of prolonged social mobilization process
were not fully understood at the design stage. As a result, the Bank's performance during
project preparation was assessed as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

During implementation, the Bank's engagement has been substantial and efforts were
made to make up for what was not envisaged at entry. Between 2001 and 2007, the Bank,
through 12 review missions, regularly monitored the physical and financial progress of
the Project, identified major implementation issues and discussed and agreed with the
GoNWFP on time-bound action plans and monitored/advised on their implementation.
The Bank promptly and favorably responded to IA's request for approval of procurement
plans, extensively advised on procurement, disbursement, and financial management
issues, and approved the credit extension in timely manner. The quality of Bank's
supervision was assessed as satisfactory.




                                           12

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank's participation during project design was innovative and incorporated key
lessons learned from past projects. But the Bank team did not fully appreciate the
importance of some design aspects of the Project (discussed above under the section
Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry), which affected the project
implementation at later stage. The Bank's supervision during implementation stage was
practical, timely and effective. As a result, the overall performance of the Bank was
assessed as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Borrower (in this case the Government of Pakistan) provided proper guidance and
monitoring on the utilization of credit proceeds and facilitated the project implementation.
The Government's performance was rated as satisfactory. The GoNWFP also provided
timely policy and strategic guidance to the Project during its implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The involvement of the IA was effective and proactive during project design stage and
during implementation. However, the IA did not take timely and necessary actions in
resolving the issues such as poor coordination between key stakeholders and absence of a
full-time project director, especially during the first years of the Project and sub-optimal
project management setup. Despite such difficulties, the IA was able to respond to major
challenges of the Project and eventually managed to deliver the key project outputs. The
general oversight of the Project, compliance with legal covenants, and social and
environmental safeguards were satisfactory. The performance of the IA was rated as
moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. However, because of some deficiencies
observed in the performances of the IA during implementation (discussed in section
Implementing Agency Performance above), the overall Borrower performance was
assessed as moderately satisfactory.




                                             13

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The following key lessons were learned from the Project:

     More intensive involvement of farmers and FOs during the process of
       determining the detailed rehabilitation needs of individual irrigation schemes, and
       later during implementation monitoring would help avoid the unnecessary delays
       during contract execution and will also improve the quality of construction works.

     Beneficiary participation was more effective in cases where the irrigation
       management was formally (and fully) transferred to FOs.

     In projects, where the rehabilitation of distributaries/minors and canals constitute
       a major part, the role of Irrigation Department needs to be defined more clearly in
       terms of resource allocation and management, implementation, and delivery of
       key outputs.

     Projects, which envisage a major institutional development component entailing
       beneficiary participation, would require a sufficient lead time before the physical
       investment activities start to allow adequate social mobilization process.

     For projects of this level of complexity, a full-time Project Director and more
       structured Project Management Unit with adequate staffing would be essential.

     Proper pre- and post-qualification of contractors, and their close monitoring
       during implementation are essential for timely and quality execution of contracts.
       During selection of contractors, the lowest bid should not always be the most
       important criterion for selection.

     For effective implementation of financial management system, the donor
       agencies' reporting requirements need be harmonized and aligned to the
       borrower's accounting system and the counterpart accounting staff and
       independent auditors should be given adequate training.

     At design stage, the project risks should be properly assessed, especially in terms
       of its broader policy environment and political commitments of the Government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies

(a) Borrower

       None

(b) Implementing Agency (IA)




                                             14

The IA commented that the ICR Report was comprehensive and was based on facts.
According to IA, the Project achieved all its key outputs and deliverables, including
establishment and operation of FOs/FWUAs, transfer of irrigation and drainage system to
farmer organizations (FOs), and rehabilitation and implementation of its originally
targeted distributaries, minors and watercourses.

The IA emphasized that ensuring future sustainability and capacities of FOs/FWUAs
would require continued commitment from the GoNWFP. Also, IA noted that the lessons
learned from the current Project should be carefully considered during the design of
future projects. Some recommendations made by project stakeholders during a workshop
on Sustainability of FWUAs in NWFP organized in February 2007 in Peshawar reflected
in Lessons Learned part of this report.




                                           15

                                  Annex 1: Outputs by Component

The following six main components were envisaged at appraisal: (i) community
development and support program to promote formation of FOs through a well structured
social mobilization and support program; (ii) distributary-level improvement program to
provide     rehabilitation     of     distributaries/minors;      (iii)   watercourse        and     on-farm
improvements program to help renovate and/or construct watercourses, field ditches, and
water storage tanks in the canal command and barani (rainfed) areas; (iv) improvements
in branch/distributary canals supplying water to secondary level channels managed by
farmers; (v) local/minor irrigation schemes development program outside the IBIS; and
(vi) project management support component. However, after the MTR, the fourth
component, i.e improvements in branch/distributary canals was dropped. The outputs of
individual project components are detailed below.

Component 1: Community Development and Support Program

This component resulted in the formation of 53 FOs/FWUAs (6 FOs and 47 FWUAs) as
originally targeted, and the farmer bodies entered into formal contracts with government
agencies under the Irrigation and Drainage Management Transfer Agreement (IDMTA)
and JIMM for transferred or joint management of the irrigation systems. The newly
established FOs/FWUAs participated in planning, designing, construction and regular
maintenance of irrigation systems.             All 53 FO/FWUAs have been formed through
rigorous social organization processes (Table 1.1). Today, they are responsible for water
distribution, collection of water charges, maintenance of accounts and carrying out
routine O&M. Farmers also made financial contributions to the capital cost of
investments and regular O&M of their irrigation systems. The formal contracts have
empowered FOs with clear legal status and roles and responsibilities which have
positively affected farmers' linkages and working relations with FIDA. The FOs are now
collecting abiana from the farmers. Although, the collection rate of abiana by FOs is low
at this stage, the farmers believe that the collection rate will increase with demonstrated
improvement in the irrigation systems over time.

                 Table 1.1         Farmers Organizations/Federations of WUAs Formed

                                                 Target                       Achievements
                 Description                      as of        As of       Jul. - Dec.      Jan. -

                                               June 2005    June 2004         2004          Jun.       Total
                                                                                            2005
Formation of FOs under IDMT                         6             6             -             -          6
Formation of 14 FWUAs in NWFP and 2
in FATA under JIMM                                  16          9+2             3             2         16

Formation of 31 FWUAs on Local/Minor
Irrigation Schemes (LIMS), 25 in NWFP              31*         23+5           1+1             1         31
and 6 in FATA under JIMM
                    Total                         53**           45             5             3         53
*PAD target for the LMIS were 26 (20 for NWFP and 6 for FATA), which was increased to 31 (5 more for NWFP)
following the MTR. Therefore total FO/FWUA target of 48 set in PAD was increased to
53.




                                                     16

This approach has given greater stake to farmers, thus creating a sense of ownership and
responsibility among them and resulting in improved irrigation systems. This component
entailed three major inputs in successive steps: extensive baseline surveys, development
of socio-economic profiles and identification of distributary improvement or LMIS. This
was followed by social mobilization process, which contributed to the formation of FOs
and FWUAs at distributary or LMIS levels. The technical support teams imparted
capacity building trainings to FO/FWUAs. In total, 14 trainings were imparted to farmers
relating to awareness raising, organization and management, financial management and
technical trainings (Table 1.2).

                     Table 1.2     Capacity Building/Training Activities Carried Out
Activities               Targets       Targets         Targets               Achieved             %
                         (FOs)         (FWUA)          (FWUA):LMIS           (FO+FWUA)            Achieved
                         Disty/        Disty/Minor     (NWFP+FATA)* Disty/
                         Minor         (NWFP+FATA)                           Minor+LMIS
                         Mardan)                                             (NWFP+FATA)
Awareness
Orientation                        6                16                 31                    53          100
workshop
Study cross visits                 6                16                 31                    53          100
Organizational                                                                               53
management
Leadership                         6                16                 31                    53          100
management and
skills development
Conflict resolution                6                16                 31                    53          100
Financial                                           16                 31                    53
Management
Financial                          6                16                 31                    53          100
Management
PPM&E                              6                16                 31                    53          100
Technical                                                                                    53
Construction                       6                16                 31                    53          100
supervision/contract
management
Water management                   6                16                 31                    53          100
Abiana Assessment                  6                16                 31                    53          100
and Warabandi
O&M                                6                16                 31                    53          100
Efficient irrigation               6                16                 31                    53          100
water use and land
leveling
Irrigation                         6                16                 31                    53          100
agronomy &OFWM
Integrated Pest                    6                16                 31                    53          100
Management
Safe use of agro-                  6                16                 31                    53          100
chemicals and
pesticides
* FWUAs for 25 LMIS in NWFP were formed, 25 schemes prepared and contracts awarded for them, but works for 3
schemes were not taken up due to security reasons.




                                                    17

However, delayed initiation of social mobilization process delayed the formation of
FO/FWUAs. The process was further affected by a number of other factors such as
delays in signing of management agreements with the government agency, clarity on
roles and responsibilities and transferring management responsibilities from government
to FO/FWUAs. The progress on social mobilization was moving at a slow pace until the
MTR, which further impacted the progress of physical activities. In order to initiate
physical activities, social mobilization process and capacity building program had to be
compressed in terms of time, thus compromising the quality of the institutional
strengthening process of FWUAs. However, this component achieved its intended
outputs to a satisfactory level and initial findings of the assessment study also indicate
that FO/FWUAs are viable and potentially sustainable. Nevertheless, most FOs are only
about 1-2 years old in terms of fully assuming the irrigation management functions. To
ensure their long term sustainability there is need for continued support until they become
technically and financially sustainable.                The numbers of community development and
support teams is shown in Table 1.3.

             Table 1.3           Community Development and Support Teams by Subproject
Teams                            PAD targets                      Outputs at completion                   %
                                                                                                          achieved
                                 NWFP        FATA        Total    NWFP               FATAA      Total
Indus basin (within and
outside) irrigation systems
Baseline survey teams                    2          1         3                 2           1        3            100
Social organization teams                6          1         7                 6           1        7            100
Technical assistance                    20          2        22                20           2       22            100
teams
Number of FO/FWUAs
formed                                   6          0         6                 6           0        6            100
IDMT                                    14          2        16                14           2       16            100
JIMM
Local/minor irrigation                20*           6        26                20           6       26            100
schemes
Baseline survey teams                    1          1         2                 1           1        2            100
Social organization teams                1          1         2                 1           1        2            100
Technical assistance                     1          1         2                 1           1        2            100
teams
* The PAD target of 20 LMIS for the NWFP was revised to 25 LMIS following the MTR.


The output of this component has positively contributed to the improvement of the
irrigation management systems commanding about 0.2 million ha of cultivated land. The
overall expected outcome was to enhance financial sustainability of irrigation systems by
establishing a self sustaining institutional base in the form of FOs at the local level. The
financial contribution in the construction work and collection of abiana and retention13 of



13Retaining 40% of abiana is meant for the regular O&M of their irrigation systems and meeting the operational costs
their organizations. The average rate of abiana collection in 6 FOs of Mardan ranges from 15 percent to 60 percent,
which is cumulative since 2004-05, but including the abiana assessment of the last winter season added a few weeks
ago whereby collection has barely started. Excluding that, the collection rate is as high 70%-80% for at least three of
the 6 FOs.



                                                         18

40% of collected abiana amounts for regular maintenance are the key factors contributing
towards the outcome. FOs have also undertaken the responsibility of managing, operating
and maintaining the water distribution structure. They provided an institutional basis for
the initiation of work on irrigation schemes which further paved the way for the efficient
and effective distribution of water to all water users. Post-project assessment report
indicates that water conveyance efficiency has increased from 55% to 73%, while water
loss has reduced from 45% to 18% as result of project interventions. The report further
confirms participation of farmers in the process while all stakeholders, including women,
tenants, tail end farmers of water courses and landless, are accruing direct and indirect
benefits from the project interventions.

Component 2: Distributary Level Improvement Program

This component envisaged rehabilitation/improvement of a total of 21 distributary
canals. 14 As of March 31, 200715 , the work on 14 distributary canals was 100%
completed while the work on 2 distributary canals was substantially (upto 80%)
completed. The work on 5                16  distributary canals was partially completed, the
accomplishment ranging from 47% to 78% due to lack of proper performance by the
contractors. However, the most essential rehabilitation works, including canal desilting
were completed, as a result of which the design capacity of the canals has been restored
to a satisfactory level. The work on 1 distributary canal could not be carried out due to
security situations in the project area. The overall completion rate of this component
(weighted by volume of civil works by each scheme) was 95%.

The irrigation systems of these twenty one (21) distributary canals serve a cumulative
CCA of 98,000 ha benefiting a farmer population of over 1,110,000.

The initial findings of the impact evaluation study showed that in the surveyed project
area, the water availability has been increased by around 10%. The PID and FATADC
ensured that: (a) construction works under the Project were carried out in accordance
with design criteria and specifications satisfactory to IDA; and (b) in particular, the
distributary/minor canals included in the project were rehabilitated to achieve sufficient
capacity to deliver their full discharge determined on the basis of the diversions at the
head of the main canal system over the previous ten years. The outcome of strengthening
the sense of ownership and participation by all, particularly the FOs/FWUAs, was
achieved.




146 Distributary Canals (AWB) in settled area of NWFP managed by FOs, 13 Distributary Canals outside AWB in
settled area of NWFP jointly managed by PID and responsible FWUAs, and 2 Distributary Canals outside AWB in
FATA jointly managed by FATADC and responsible FWUAs.

15 The revised Credit Closing Date.

16- All in Mardan AWB




                                                    19

Component 3: Watercourse and On-Farm Improvement Program

At appraisal, this component envisaged the rehabilitation of 1,380 watercourses and
construction of 350 water storage tanks in canal command and barani areas. In addition,
a total of 3,534 ha of land area was to be improved through laser land leveling and 60
demonstration centers were to be established to promote improved crop practices. As
shown in Table 1.4 below, at the completion of the Project, a total of 1,115 watercourses,
about 81% of the original target, were rehabilitated and 496 water storage tanks, about
142% of the original target, were constructed..

The completion rates for watercourse improvement program markedly differed between
canal command areas and barani areas: 49% in canal command areas, and 107% in
barani areas. The main reasons for such low completion rate for watercourse
improvements in the canal command areas are attributed to late selection of distributary
canals, longer time required for social mobilization and formation of the Farmer
Organizations (FOs), and delays in the transfer of irrigation management.

Another reason was less demand from farmers to improve their watercourses in FO-
established areas because the 6 channels selected for improvements fell under the
command of Maira branch canal, which was already recently remodeled under another
ADB-financed project and most of its watercourses were renovated under that project
(however, the project target was not revised formally). On the other hand, the drought
conditions that occurred in the barani areas created greater demand for tube-well and dug
well watercourses and water storage tanks. Accordingly, the project resources were
diverted to emerging needs of non-canal commanded project activities.

The precision land leveling was done on 3,160 ha (89% of original target) and irrigation
demonstration plots were established by 52 farmers/farmer groups (87% of output target).

         Table 1.4       Implementation Status of Water Course Improvement Component
                               PAD targets               Outputs at completion
                                                                                  %
 Activity by category of works NWFP     FATA      Total  NWFP      FATA    Total  achieved
 Watercourse (wc) renovation
 in canal commands                600        25     625      281      25     306         49
 WC renovation in barani
 (non-canal commands)             730        25     755      784      25     809        107

 Total (watercourses)           1,330        50   1,380    1,065      50    1,115        81
 Water Storage Tanks (WST)        350          0    350      496       0     496        142
 Land leveling (ha)             3,034       500   3,534    2,660     500    3,160        89
 Demonstration Centers             48        12      60        40     12      52         87

The overall outcome of this component was envisaged in the form of contribution of its
various activities to changes in farm productivity and eventually farm incomes. As
compared to the baseline survey carried out under the Project sometime before the mid-
term review, an impact assessment carried out towards the end of the project
implementation found that improved watercourses exhibit several positive impact


                                               20

indicators. First, average increase in the irrigated crop areas within the commands of
improved watercourses is 27%; it is more pronounced in the non canal-commanded
watercourses (ranging from 43% to 75% increase); and it is much less in the canal
commanded watercourses (ranging from 2% to 17% increase). Second, there is a gradual
shift in the cropping pattern of farms commanded by the improved watercourses from
cereal crops to cash crops; area under wheat and maize has decreased (ranging from 2%
to 4% decrease in the case of wheat and about 1% decrease in the case of maize) while
area under vegetables has increased (ranging from 2% to 4% increase) and there are
indications that area under cotton and sugarcane is likely to increase in the future. Third,
cropping intensities of farms commanded by the improved watercourses shows 20-30%
increase in all types of farms (in both canal and non-canal commanded regimes): an
average of 24% increase for the large farms (very few), 21% for the medium farms, and
30% for the small farms (predominant). Fourth, yields of field crops indicate increases
ranging from 9 to 21%, as shown in the Table 1.5 below, for various crops (data taken for
small farms only as they have been predominant).

                 Table 1.5         Crops Yields Before and After Watercourse Improvement
Crop                                         Before                   After             % increase
                                             (t/ha)                   (t/ha)            (t/ha)
Wheat                                                         2.63               3.02                         15
Maize                                                         1.77               2.75                         55
Rice                                                          2.35               2.75                         17
Sugarcane                                                   54.64               66.10                         21
Vegetables                                                  12.10               14.89                         23
Alfalfa                                                     34.43               37.66                          9
Fodder (summer)                                             13.67               15.72                         15

It is clear that these four groups of outcomes, even though tentative in nature, point to
significant likely increases in farm productivity and farm income.

Component 4: Improvement of Branch Canals and Systems

No activity was carried out under this component, and it was cancelled during the MTR.

Component 5 Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes Development Program

The envisaged total output of this component in the project appraisal document was
rehabilitation/improvement of 31 LMIS17. As of March 31, 2007, the work on 15 LMIS
was 100% completed while the work on 4 LMIS was substantially (upto 80%) completed.
The work on 918 LMIS was partially completed with accomplishments ranging from 2%
to 75% due to lack of proper performance by the contractors. The work on 3 LMIS could



17Rehabilitation of 25 Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes in settled area of NWFP managed by FWUAs and rehabilitation
   of 6. Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes in FATA managed by FATADC and responsible FWUAs, where
   perennial/seasonal flows needed to be tapped.


18- All in settled area of NWFP.




                                                        21

not be carried out due to dispute among the farmers and consequently lack of consensus
in respect of the nature of work. The overall completion of this component was 65%.

The rehabilitated Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes serve a cumulative CCA of 62,340 ha
benefiting a population of over 584,000.

As is in the case of Component 2, the initial findings of the impact evaluation study
indicated that in the surveyed project area, the water availability has increased by around
10%. Although there was dissent among farmers on three (3) LMIS resulting in no work
on these schemes but the works on all the schemes undertaken were identified and
proposed by FOs/FWUAs with the support of TSTs, while the PID and FATADC
ensured that: (a) construction works under the project were carried out in accordance
with design criteria and specifications satisfactory to IDA; and (b) in particular, LMIS
included in the Project were rehabilitated to provide assured perennial flow of water for
irrigation.

Component 6: Project Management Support

The Project had core staff available from governments' previous OFWM programs,
regular irrigation operations, and P&DD's regular monitoring and evaluation wing. The
required necessary incremental staff was generally recruited in a timely manner and
according to the implementation phasing of the Project. The technical assistance (TA), as
envisaged in the PAD, was procured at the outset as the consultancy contract was
finalized, negotiated and signed following a timetable that was consistent with IDA's
approval of the Credit. The PIAC was on board simultaneously with the commencement
of implementation activities, and had diverse specialists (social scientists and field staff
to facilitate implementation of the Social Mobilization and Support Program component,
irrigation engineers and staff to facilitate implementation of DLIP and LMIS components,
and other required specialists, such as financial management, gender development,
baseline and impact evaluators to strengthen the implementation capacity of the line
agencies).




                                              22

                       Annex 2: Economic and Financial Analyses

According to revised economic analysis, the Project is expected to yield Rs 1,432 million
as economic net present value (NPV, determined at 12% opportunity cost of capital) of
incremental economic benefits net of costs. The PV of economic benefits is expected at
Rs 2,053 million and that of costs is Rs 621 million.

The ERR at project completion is estimated at 30.2% compared to 26.6% at appraisal.
The sensitivity analysis shows that the ERR would drop to 24% if the estimated benefits
decrease by 30% suggesting that it is not very sensitive to decreases in benefits. The
financial rate return (FRR) at project completion is estimated at 26.7% compared to the
appraisal estimate of 24.3%. Table 2.1 contains the summary of economic and financial
analysis of the Project.


                       Table 2.1       Economic and Financial Analyses
 NPV Benefits & Costs           Present Value Of Flows
                                Economic Analysis             Financial Analysis
 Benefits (Rs million)                                 2,053                          2,100
 Costs (Rs million)                                      621                             690
 Net Benefits                                          1,432                          1,410
 ERR, %                                                  30.2                           26.7
 ERR, % (at appraisal)                                   26.6                           24.3


Key Assumptions Used in the Analysis

Quantifiable agricultural benefits that are accruing to the beneficiaries of the Project from
field crops are taken into account. This approach is consistent with the one followed in
the PAD. The basis of incremental agricultural production is the difference between `with
project' and `without project' situations in terms of increases in cropping intensities and
crop yields in the canal and non-canal (barani) areas of the Project. Another impact
indicator determined at project completion was the expansion of cultivated area per farm
due to improved water availability at the farm level. The expanded area (13% for canal
and 49% for non-canal watercourses/storage tanks) was not used for ERR computations
because this impact indicator was also not quantified at appraisal of the Project.

For estimating the benefits, results of the impact assessment study (IAS) were used. The
study carried out by consultants employed by the M&E directorate of the Planning &
Development department of GONWFP, used a stratified sampling approach in the
various agro-ecological zones of NWFP and FATA and selected 19 watercourses in the
canal commanded and 9 watercourses in the non-canal commanded areas. About 67% of
the selected watercourses represented the `with project' situation. Key data on savings in
water, improvement in water distribution to head, middle and tail sections, efficient use
of water in increasing the cropping intensity;,; and the resultant impact of these measures
on crop yields were collected, collated, computed and analyzed. The data represented
two cropping seasons (winter of 2006-07 and spring/summer 2007), which coincided
with the project completion period. A total of 86 respondents were interviewed in the
first season (only 16 watercourses were selected in this round) and 199 in the second. On


                                              23

an average 6 respondents were randomly selected on each watercourse - two each from
the head, middle and tail sections. Specific assumptions and bases in estimating the
benefits by various project components are described in the paragraphs that follow.

It was assumed that cropping intensities (CI) of the improved distributaries/minors (`with
project') would remain unchanged while that of `without project' situation would have
deteriorated by 5% in five years. Therefore, the CIs of canal watercourses (`without
project') have been used as proxy for the `with project' distributaries/minors as shown in
the Table 2.2 below. It was also assumed that due to improvements in watercourses and
new water storage tanks, CI% in the targeted areas would increase by about 19%

         Table 2.2            Cropping Intensities Without and With Project

        Distributaries located within                           Cropping Intensities (CIs), %

        Agro-ecological zones                                Without project                 With project
        North/Central zone, NWFP                                    155.0                        160.0
        Southern zone, NWFP                                         139.3                        144.3
        FATA                                                        120.3                        125.3

         Crop yields increases are also based on the data from the IAS.19 Yield increases
for cereal crops are slightly higher in the northern/central and FATA zones, ranging from
5% (wheat) to 10% (maize and sugarcane), while increases for other crops in the southern
zone are marginally better, ranging from 14% (vegetables) to 7 and 10% for summer and
winter fodders respectively. As compared to overall yield increase of 5% assumed in the
PAD, incremental yield data as shown in Table 2.3 below indicates about 7-9% increase,
which has been utilized for the economic analysis.

           Table 2.3            Changes in Crop Yields* (% increase with- over without project)
                         Canal watercourses                             Non-canal watercourse/wst
Crop                     N/Central        Southern         FATA         N/Central        Southern         FATA

Wheat                               5.1            4.8           5.4               5.1               4.8            5.4
Maize                              10.1            5.3          11.3             10.1                5.0            4.4
Rice                                8.2            6.0           0.0               8.2               4.3            0.0
Sugarcane                           9.9            9.2           0.0               9.8               9.2            0.0
Vegetables                         10.1           12.8          12.8             13.6              13.8            12.8
Fodder (kharif)                     6.3            7.3           5.0               6.3               7.3            5.4
Alfalfa                             4.2            8.7           8.3               4.2               9.7            8.2
Potato/Garlic                       3.2            0.0          13.0               1.4               0.0           10.5
Average                             7.1            7.7           9.3               7.3               7.7            7.8
* Average of small, medium and large farms. WST = water storage tanks.
K = kharif or summer crops. Garlic yields are for FATA only.




19Because of sampling limitations particularly in the first round, the average yields reported were reduced by about
7.5% in the `with project' situation. The enumerators could not visit sampled respondents in the Northern zone of
NWFP and FATA-I zone of FATA. Historically irrigated crops in these zones have lower yields than other zones.




                                                            24

        Local/Minor Irrigation Schemes (LMIS). In the absence of any specific data
available in the IAS that could differentiate between the CIs and crop yields within the
commands of LMIS, the watercourse data on the incremental CIs and crop yields has
been used in the current analysis.

        Improved Management of Distributaries/Minors.                   No direct benefit from
incremental agricultural production has been attributed to the transfer and/or participatory
management of these secondary irrigation channels.

        Target Impact Area. At project completion, net target impact area has been
estimated at 132,316 ha, which is about two third (66%) of the net area estimated at
appraisal of the Project (201,200 ha). Main reason for this shortfall is the cancellation of
branch canal component (45,000 ha) and over-estimation of CCA of distributary/minor
canals (4,918 ha per distributary estimated at appraisal versus an actual CCA of 2,695 ha
per distributary attained at project completion). However actual CCA of LMIS proved to
be almost double (1,491 ha per LMIS) the CCA estimated at appraisal (723 ha per LMIS).
Details of re-estimated net impact area are provided in Table 2.4 given below.

                   Table 2.4       Watercourse Improvements (Impact area in ha)
                                                 Water
                          Watercourses           Storage Distributary/minors LMIS          Total
Province/Entity           canal      Non-        Tanks
                          irrigated  canal
                                     irrigated
NWFP                         23,688     27,129      5,165                51,099   43,524     150,606
FATA                          1,625      1,428           -                2,799    1,210       7,062
Total                        25,313     28,557      5,165                53,898   44,734     157,667
Net impact area*             25,313     28,557      5,165                28,585   44,734     132,354
Net impact area              31,720     15,100    10,500                 76,480   22,400     201,200
(Appraisal)
*Net impact area used for ERR computation whereby CCA of watercourses improved in the canal
irrigated distributaries has been deducted from the total CCA of distributary/minors to avoid double
counting.

        Prices. Current market prices prevailing during the first semester of 2007 have
been used for financial analysis. Market prices of farm outputs and inputs have been
adjusted to farmgate prices by an average of about 10% to reflect transportation and
handling costs. Economic prices have been derived from import parity prices (annual
average of January-June 2007 data, in current US dollars, taken from the World Bank
Commodity Price Data), using average exchange rate of Rs 60.5 to a dollar. FOB prices
from the respective ports of shipment, denominated in $/ton, for wheat (202.0), rice
(export: 317.3), maize (165.0), sugar (221.9), urea (294.3), DAP (387.8), and MOP
(180.2) were converted to CIF, adjusted for port handling, transportation to project area,
and where applicable processing ratios were applied to compute conversion factors (CF)
for financial farmgate prices. Both financial and economic prices, in current Rs/kg are
given in Table 2.9.




                                                 25

        Methodology. Representative farm models using the financial and economic
prices in developing crop budgets in the various project situations (without and with) and
modes (canal and non-canal irrigated) were developed by the agro-ecological zones of
NWFP and FATA.

        Crop Production. A key assumption for aggregating the total farm crop
production is the total cropped area in the net target impact area by each
component/subcomponent, which were primarily aggregated from the data generated by
the agro-ecological zones, have been multiplied by the yields. Incremental production
due to project, registering 51% increase. Total incremental production of all crops is
estimated at about 1 million tons, of which 85% is due to two bulkier crops: sugarcane
(70%) and vegetables (15%). Details of crop production increases are shown in Table
2.5.

                    Table 2.5         Incremental Annual Production*('000 tons)
                 Without project              With project              Incremental
Crop             NWFP      FATA       Total   NWFP FATA          Total  NWFP FATA Total

Wheat                144          6      150      167        7      174       23      1.2      25
Maize                 42          3       44       49        3       53        8      0.7       9
Rice                  16          -       16       19        -       19        3        -       3
Sugarcane           1,180         -    1,180   1,683         -    1,683     503         -      503
Vegetables           112          3      115      223        9      232     111       5.4      117
Fodder                63          1       64       75        2       77       12      0.4      12
(kharif)
Alfalfa              202        14       216      233       18      251       31      4.3      35
Potato                24          -       24       28        -       28        4        -       4
Garlic                  -         7        7         -       9        9        -      2.5       3
Total               1,783       34     1,817   2,478        49    2,526     695       14       710
*   After project completion, at full development (about 5 years)
** represents 39% increase over the without project situation.

Farm Incomes and Financial Analysis

        Farm Incomes.       Based on the farm models developed for all situations (without
and with project for various subcomponents and by different agro-ecological zones), net
farm incomes in financial terms show 28 to 35% increase at project completion for
NWFP. On an overall basis, farm incomes increased by 29%.                      At appraisal, the
estimated increase in incremental net farm income ranged from 21 to 210%. A summary
of net farm incomes by subcomponents is presented Table 2.6.

Table 2.6        Average Net Farm Income in NWFP and FATA (Rs/farm)
                          Canal          Non-canal        Non-canal       Local
                          irrigated      (tubewell)       (water storage  minor         Overall
                                                          tank)           irrigation
NWFP*
Farm size (ha)                    3.25             2.62             0.83          0.77
at appraisal (2001)**          48,335             29,921           9,488        3,104
without project (2007)         66,826             11,853           3,341       15,746      97,766



                                                26

with project (2007)                   92,273               18,369            5,178           21,742      137,562
incremental                           25,447                6,516            1,837             5,996      39,796
% incremental                              28                 35                 35              28          29
FATA
Farm size (ha)                           3.48               4.63                   -           0.30
at appraisal (2001)**                 51,627               52,909                  -           1,203
without project (2007)                67,106               30,267                  -           5,738     103,111
with project (2007)                   94,925               46,900                  -           8,117     149,943
incremental                           27,819               16,633                  -           2,379      46,831
% incremental                              29                 35                   -             29          31
Net farm income means gross revenues net of all operating costs.
* Average gross margins of North/Central and Southern zones for NWFP.
** Average income per farm (estimated in 2001 nominal prices) adapted to current farm sizes of NWFP and FATA.

Financial Rate of Return (FRR). At appraisal, the overall financial rate of return (FRR)
was estimated at 24.3% and NPV at US$ 14.5 million (Rs 841 million). The FRR at
implementation completion is estimated at 26.7% and NPV at US$ 23.3 million (Rs
1,410 million).         The FRR for NWFP is 27.4% and for FATA is 18.2%. The FRR
computations are based on discounted cash flows for 20 years in all cases.

Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis

         Economic Rate of Return (ERR). Overall ERR of the project at its completion is
estimated at 30.2% (31.1% for NWFP and 18.7% for FATA). At appraisal of the Project,
the overall ERR of the Project was estimated at 26.6% and those for NWFP and FATA
were estimated at 26.6% and 26.5% respectively. The details of ERRs at appraisal and
project completion are presented Table 2.7.

                                Table 2.7           Economic Rate of Return (%)
                                                      Appraisal                                ICR
NWFP                                                                   26.6                                31.1
FATA                                                                   26.5                                18.7
Overall                                                                26.6                                30.2

                                Table 2.8          Sensitivity Analysis: ERR (%)
Sensitivity variable                                            NWFP                FATA           Project
Base case                                                                  31.1             18.7           30.2
20% decrease in benefits                                                   27.2             15.1           26.3
30% decrease in benefits                                                   24.9             13.1           24.1
2 years lag in benefits                                                    23.3             13.7           22.6
Switching values (benefit reduction)*                                      71.6             34.7           69.8
Switching values (cost escalation)**                                      252.0             53.3           230.7
*Percent decrease in benefits required for ERR to drop to 12%
** Percent increase in costs required for ERR to drop to 12%




                                                          27

         Table 2.9       Summary of Financial and Economic (Farmgate) prices (Rs/unit)
                                        Unit           Financial           Economic              Conversion Factor
Outputs
Wheat                                    kg                          9.90                 17.59              1.78
Maize                                   kg                           9.72                 11.98              1.23
Rice                                    kg                          12.60                 14.08              1.12
Sugarcane                               kg                           1.35                   1.52             1.13
Vegetables (kharif)                      kg                          4.50                   4.05               0.9
Fodder (kharif)                          kg                          1.08                   0.97               0.9
Alfalfa                                  kg                          0.68                   0.61               0.9
Potato                                  kg                           6.75                   6.08               0.9
Garlic                                   kg                         16.20                 14.58                0.9
By Products, % gross revenue
Wheat                                                                13%                   13%                 0.9
Maize                                                                3.0%                 3.0%                 0.9
Rice, coarse                                                           5%                   5%                 0.9
Sugarcane                                                            11%                   11%                 0.9
Vegetables                                                             1%                   1%                 0.9
Seed
Wheat                                    kg                         14.30                 25.41              1.78
Maize (non-hybrid)                      kg                          19.80                 24.40              1.23
Rice                                    kg                          16.50                 18.44              1.12
Sugarcane                               kg                           2.75                   3.10             1.13
Vegetables (kharif)                      kg                        115.50                103.95                0.9
Fodder (kharif)                          kg                         11.00                   9.90               0.9
Alfalfa                                  kg                         88.00                 79.20                0.9
Potato                                  kg                          34.10                 30.69                0.9
Other crops                              kg                         33.00                 29.70                0.9
Inputs
Ploughing                               Rs/ha                      750.00                675.00                0.9
FYM                                     ton                         85.00                 76.50                0.9
Nitrogen                                nut kg                      26.30                 48.23              1.83
Phosphate                               nut kg                      31.40                 46.15              1.47
Potash                                  nut kg                      58.10                 33.42              0.58
Pesticide treatment                     Lumpsum/ha                 440.00                396.00                0.9
Abiana* (canal water)
 cereals                                per ha                     459.00                596.70                1.3
 rice/vegetables                        per ha                     718.00                933.40                1.3
 Sugarcane                              per ha                    1,542.00              2004.60                1.3
 Fodder                                 per ha                     340.00                442.00                1.3
Tubewell (average of elec+diesel) irrig. 1 irrig/ha               1,300.00              1495.00              1.15
Misc. Items                             Lumpsum/ha 4% of gross revenue     4% of gross revenue
Labor
All operations                          Rs/m day                      100                 90.00                0.9
         * Economic cost of canal water rates assumed to be 30% higher because of the PID's overheads and
         TW water 15% higher because of subsidy in energy costs.



                                                         28

                                 Annex 3: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Costs by Component
                                                                    Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                    Estimates           Estimates        Percentage of
Component                                                           (US$ Million) (US$ Million)          Appraisal

(a) NWFP

Community Development and Support Program                                    2.32                 1.55          66.9

Distributary Level Improvement Program                                       4.24                 0.51          12.0

Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program                                 9.26                 8.34          90.06

Improvement in Branch/Distributary Canals                                    1.82       -                           -

Local/Minor Irrigation Scheme Development Program                           11.06                 3.91          35.3

Subtotal                                                                    28.70                14.31          49.6

(b) FATA

Community Development and Support Program                                    0.54                 0.30          55.2

Distributary Level Improvement Program                                       0.42                 0.39          93.8

Watercourse and On-Farm Improvements Program                                 0.40                 0.41         103.4

Local/Minor Irrigation Scheme Development Program                            1.38                 0.88          63.7

Subtotal                                                                     2.74                 1.98          72.4

(c) M&E Wing Project Management Support                                      0.61                 0.62         101.4

   TOTAL                                                                    32.05                16.91          52.76
Notes:
NWFP: Total consultancy of US$1.804 million charged to CDSP and LMIS at the ratio of expenditures of US$ 1.551
million and US$ 0.253million.
FATA: (i) Total consultancy of $0.337 million charged to CDSP and LMIS at the ratio of expenditures of US$ 0.298
million and US$ 0.39 million; (ii) All goods and incremental operating costs of $0.06 m and 0.06 m charged to
Watercourse Component.

(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal              Actual/Latest
                                           Estimates              Estimates                    Percentage of
Source of Funds                            (US$ Million)          (US$ Million)                Appraisal

IDA                                                     21.35                          13.37                 62.30

Government                                                3.70                          1.90                 51.35

Farmers                                                   7.00                          1.64                 23.43

Total                                                   32.05                          16.91                 52.76
Notes:
1. US$3.47 million were cancelled from IDA Credit on August 2, 2004 because of restructuring of the component on
Improvement of Branch Canals.
2. US$7.5 million were re-allocated on December 6, 2005 to the Emergency Rehabilitation Project.
3. US$0.3 million re-diverted to enable NWFP OFWM to clear its pending liabilities toward the closure of NWFP
component.
4. As a result of US$ depreciation, the total gain of US$ 2.95 million incurred to the Project.




                                                          29

      Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Names                      Title                                Unit      Responsibility
Lending

Zia Al Jalaly              Senior Social Development Spec       SASES     Social analysis and
                                                                          safeguards
Ghulam Ali                 Program Assistant                    SASAR     Project management
Rashed ul Qayyum           Senior Agriculture Specialist        SASAR     Task team leadership
Riaz Mahmood               Finance Analyst                      SACPK     Disbursement
Hasan Masood Mirza         Consultant                           SACPK     Procurement
Uzma Sadaf                 Procurement Spec.                    SARPS     Procurement
Hasan Saqib                Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM     Finance

Supervision/ICR
Rashed ul Qayyum           Senior Agriculture Specialist        SASAR     Task team leadership
Tekola Dejene              Lead Operations Specialist           SASAR     Task team leadership
Tumurdavaa Bayarsaihan     Senior Rural Development Specialist  SASAR     Task team leadership

Zia Al Jalaly              Senior Social Development Specialist SASES     Social analysis and
                                                                          safeguards
Ghulam Ali                 Program Assistant                    SASAR     Project management
Riaz Mahmood               Finance Analyst                      SACPK     Disbursement
Hasan Masood Mirza         Consultant                           SACPK     Procurement
Uzma Sadaf                 Procurement Specialist               SARPS     Procurement
Hasan Saqib                Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM     Finance
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks             US$ Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY01                                                          32                           80.81
FY02                                                          16                           21.35
FY03                                                          27                           57.84
Subtotal                                                      75                         160.00

Supervision/ICR
FY04                                                          20                           86.41
FY05                                                          19                           77.12
FY06                                                          15                           73.24
FY07                                                          27                         134.18
FY08                                                           6                           16.24
Subtotal                                                      87                         387.19
Total                                                        162                         547.19




                                             30

           Annex 5: Implementing Agency's Comments on draft ICR Report

The ICR Report is very comprehensive and based on facts. The overall goal of the Project
was to increase agricultural growth and productivity, and enhance farm incomes, which
has been achieved. The Project achieved all its key outputs and deliverables, including
establishment and operation of FOs/FWUAs, transfer of irrigation and drainage system to
farmer organizations (FOs), rehabilitation and implementation of its originally targeted
distributaries, minors and watercourses.

However ensuring the future sustainability of FOs/FWUAs and strengthening their
existing capacities would be essential. Also, deficiencies and lessons learned pointed out
in the ICR Report should be carefully considered during appraisal of next projects. The
recommendations of the workshop organized by the Directorate General, Water
Management, Agriculture Department maybe incorporated in the final version of the ICR.




                                           31

                      Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire, March 19, 2002
Aide Memoire, September 16, 2002
Aide Memoire, March 25, 2003
Aide Memoire, October 22, 2003
Aide Memoire, March 25, 2004
Aide Memoire, November 24, 200
Aide Memoire, May 25, 2005
Aide Memoire, January 16, 2006
Aide Memoire, June 12, 2006
Aide Memoire, October 27, 2006
Aide Memoire, June 17, 2007
Impact Evaluation Study by Borrower, June 2007
Project Appraisal Document: Fourth On-Farm Water Management Project, May 1999
Project Appraisal Document: NWFP On-Farm Water Management Project, April 2001




                                        32

Map




33

