Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17276-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR28.8 MILLION (US$39.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
KERALA FORESTRY PROJECT
February 20, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
US$1.00 =Rs.39.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBOs             Community Based Organizations
CCF              Chief Conservator of Forests
CF               Conservator of Forests
DCF              Deputy Conservator of Forests
DEA              Department of Economic Affairs
DFO              Divisional Forest Officer
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FMIS             Forest Management Information System
F&WLD            Forest and Wildlife Department
GO               Government Ordinance
GOI              Government of India
GOK              Government of Kerala
HRD              Human Resource Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
KFD              Kerala Forest Department
KFDC             Kerala Forest Development Corporation
KFRI             Kerala Forestry Research Institute
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPV              Net Present Value
NWFP             Non-Wood Forest Products
OCC              Opportunity Cost of Capital
PA               Protected Area
PC               Project Cell
PCCF             Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PIP              Project Implementation Plan
PFM              Participatory Forest Management
SOE             Statement of Expenses
VED              Village Eco-development
VSS              Varna Samrakshana Samithi (Village Forest Committee)
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim
Sector Managers: Michael Baxter and Ridwan Ali
Task Leader: Chris Keil



INDIA
Kerala Forestry Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .......................................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1.  Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ............................................................2
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................... 2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...................................3
C. Project Description Summary ...............................................................4
1. Project components ...............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........................................4
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................................5
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ...............................................................5
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................7
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............9
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ................................................9
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...................................................... 10
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project ..............................................................    10
E. Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                                                                                                  10
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                                                                         10
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                                                                        11
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                                                                       12
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                                                                   12
5. Social ..............................................................                                                                                                           13
6. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                                                                                        14
7. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                                                                           15
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                                                                 15
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                                                                  15
2. Critical risks ..............................................................                                                                                                   16
3.  Possible controversial aspects ..............................................................                                                                                  17



G. Main Credit Conditions .........................                                  17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ......................                               17
2. Other ......................                                                  17
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................... 19
L  Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                           19
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .21
Annex IA. Policy Reform Matrix .23
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description .29
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .43
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .45
Annex 4A  Financial and Economic Aspects .47
Annex 5.  Financial Summary .57
Annex 6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .59
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .63
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .64
Table C.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds .65
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .67
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .69
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .71
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .75
Map IBRD 29229 - Forest Areas and Sanctuaries



India
Kerala Forestry Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Rural Development Sector Unit
Date: February 20, 1998                            Task Leader: Chris Keil
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim                     Sector Managers: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Project ID: 49477     Sector: Rural Development    Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: SIL                            Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes [x ] No
Project Financing Data              [ ] Loan      [x] Credit   [] Guarantee             [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): SDR$28.8m/US$39.0m
Proposed terms:         Credit        [   Multicurrency     [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []  Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed          []        LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: Not exceeding
0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local               Foreign           Total
Govenmment                                                  7.5             0.0                7.5
IDA                                                        32.8             6.2               39.0
Beneficiaries                                               0.5             0.0                0.5
Total         40.8              6.2              47.0
Borrower:              Government of India
Beneficiary:           Government of Kerala (GOK)
Responsible agency:    Kerala Forest Department (KFD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):              1999       2000     2001      2002
Annual                 7.0        9.4    11.0       11.6
Cumulative                7.0        16.4    27.4       39.0
Project implementation period: 4 yrs Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1998  Closing date: Dec. 31, 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
* The main objective of the project would be to assist the Government of Kerala (GOK) in arresting
the retrograde trend in forest cover development and improving forest productivity in an
environmentally and socially sustainable manner. In addition, the project aims to improve the
standard of living of rural poor in and around forest areas, the majority of whom belong to the
poorest and weakest sections of society (including tribal people). The project objectives would be
achieved through: (a) improving the forest policy framework and strengthening institutions;
(b) increasing the stocking and productivity of natural and plantation forest on forest and non-
forest land; and (c) conserving biodiversity. The project is the first phase of a long-term program to
assist with the implementation of its new policy for development of the forestry sector, which is
consistent with the National Forestry Policy of 1988 and the State Forestry Action Program of 1996.
Progress toward achieving these objectives would be measured based on the monitorable indicators
as shown in Annex 1.
*  Central to achieving these objectives are: (a) changes in the role of KFD, from a predominantly
regulatory role to one in which communities and tree farners are treated as equal partners in the
management of forest resources; (b) changes in management systems, that would be based on
decentralization of decision-making and improved planning, monitoring and evaluation, and client-
oriented whenever the interests of local communities or tree farmers are at stake; and (c) adoption of
a changed approach to Human Resources Development, which would be linked to role definition,
skill-gap analysis and appropriate manpower planning and management.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17241-IN   Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1998
The proposed project would be consistent with the overall country assistance strategy for the rural
sector's development, which seeks to integrate environmental and social concerns into the sector's
development, through sustainable natural resource management and beneficiary participation, and
which would focus on policy reform. More specifically, the project would be consistent with the
CAS objectives of: (a) developing more effective processes and systems and skills to manage
natural resources; (b) implementing the National Forest Policy which aims to sustain ecological
balance, provide livelihood sources for local people, and provide sources of wood and other forest
products; and (c) supporting biodiversity. The project is also consistent with the objectives of the
Bank's forest policy and the Asia Region's strategy for lending in forestry, which links policy
dialogue with major investments in the forest sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.
* The main issues affecting the forestry sector in India are: (a) legislative and policy constraints;
(b) inadequate public sector development and associated human resources development; and
(c) inadequate forest management and protection. These constraints have affected performance of
the forestry sector, as follows: (i) low productivity; (ii) timber shortages; (iii) poor incentives for
private sector involvement, including that of private farms, in the sector's development;
(iv) alienation of people living in and near forests and increasing over-exploitation of forest
resources; and (v) adverse impact of increasing human population on conservation of biodiversity.
Many of these issues have been identified in the India Forest Sector Review (Report No. 10965 - IN
1992).



Page 3
*  The National Forest Policy of 1988 seeks to: (a) ensure environmental stability and maintain the
ecological balance; (b) conserve the national biological heritage; (c) increase substantially the forest
and tree cover in forest and farm lands; (d) increase the productivity of forests; and (e) ensure the
participation of the people in the management of forests and trees to achieve these objectives. These
objectives represent a significant change from the traditional objectives for the forest sector. In
response to this change, Kerala's State Forest Action Program (1996) and its State Forest Policy
(1997) set out a new strategy for the development of the sector. This addresses the main issues
identified above through: (i) changes in the policy framework; (ii) institutional development based
on a changed, less centralized management approach and, if necessary, a changed structure of KFD,
linked to human resources development and improved planning and monitoring procedures;
(iii) adoption of improved forestry technologies; and (iv) increased involvement of the various
stakeholders in sector activities, including changes in forest development programs that emphasize
the participation of people in the management of forest resources.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*  The project addresses key issues related to: (a) improving the policy and institutional framework;
(b) improving forest management and protection, and the productivity of forest resources through
introduction of improved technology and participatory forest management; (c) improving incentives
and technical support to private tree growers, particularly smallholders; and (d) intensifying
biodiversity conservation and environmental management through involvement of communities and
improved management of PAs. The issues are summarized below in Section C under key policy and
institutional reforms supported by the project and detailed in the form of a matrix in Annex 1A,
which classifies the issues and notes the detrimental effects, the proposed changes and the necessary
actions and respective actors.
*  Future development of the forestry sector in Kerala, including biodiversity conservation and
ecodevelopment, will involve long-term investment programs. This would necessitate a strategic
plan for IDA to support the sector over a period of about 10 years. Given the area of forest in Kerala
and its environmental and economic importance to the state and the nation, investments over a
decade could total US$150 million. The GOK strategy for the sector involves substantial change in
the way the sector is managed and the introduction of innovative approaches, such as participatory
forest management, and modem silvicultural technologies. Experience from previous Bank lending
for similar projects in India shows that these changes take time and that large-scale investments are
justified only when the policy reforms and institutional changes are in place. Consequently, the
long-term strategy for IDA support to the forestry sector in Kerala has two stages. The first would
include a project of about four years' duration, as proposed below, designed to allow KFD and the
other stakeholders in the project to develop the new processes, systems and skills required for
implementation of the new GOK forestry sector policy and to provide for investments in the sector in
support of the change process. The reforms and investments of the first stage and the experience
gained would form the basis of larger-scale investments that could be provided in a second-stage
project, that would incorporate any necessary modifications to programs and processes initiated
during the first-stage project.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                                              Category      Cost Inc.  % of  Bankfna-   % of
Continge   Total    nj       BMank-
ncies             CUS$M)   financin
Strengthening of Sector Management through:            Training,     7.8       17%    6.3         81%
(a) strengthening policy reform, institutional and human  consultancies,  1.7   4%
resource development;                                  civil works,
(b) introducing Forest Management Information System; and  equipment  3.8       8%
(c) supporting Project Management                                    2.3        5%
Strengthening of Forest Management through:            Forest        33.9      72%    28.2        83%
(a) improving management of natural forests;           operations,    18.8     40%
(b) introducing participatory forest management of degraded    training,  3.0   7%
natural forests;                                       research, civil
(c) improving management of industrial Plantations;    works          4.3       9%
(d) introducing improved quality of planting stock and adapted        4.4       9%
research;
(e) strengthening support for homestead forestry and associated        1.3      3%
activities; and
(f) introducing an improved fire management system               _   2.1        4%
Strengthening of Biodiversity Conservation through:    Forest        5.3       11      4.5        85
(a) establishing state-wide strategic approach to conservation;    operations,  0.4  1%
(b) strengthening sustainability of Protected Area (PA) system;   training, civil  2.5  6%
(c) improving scientific knowledge and public support; and  works,    1.5       3%
(d) expanding Village Ecodevelopment                   consultancies   0.9      2%   1
Total                                                T      _     _  47.0      100%   39.0        83%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
-  The project would support a wide range of activities intended to overcome policy, regulatory,
institutional and technological issues which impede the growth of the sector. The project would
particularly support GOK's efforts to correct fiscal and market distortions which strain the sector's
resources, impede sustainable management and prevent stakeholders from participating in forestry
asset-creating activities. To this effect: (a) GOK endorsed the Kerala Forest Policy and adopted an
associated statement of policies and actions as a framework for improving the management of forests
in Kerala, including policy, institutional and technology reforms, summarized in Annex IA;
(b) GOK issued orders to provide the legal framework for setting up Village Forest Committees with
functional and financial autonomy for the implementation of: (i) participatory forest management;
and (ii) village ecodevelopment; (c) GOK agreed to: (i) endorse modifications in the Timber Felling
Rules; and (ii) modify the Timber Transit Rules to facilitate the development of farm forestry; (d)
GOK submitted to IDA letters of firm intention to make adequate budgetary provision on a
continuous basis through establishment of a revolving fund for the maintenance, harvesting and
replanting of industrial plantations; and (e) GOK submitted a letter of firm intention to IDA to
abolish the subsidies for supply of pulp raw materials from industrial plantations and bamboo and
reed resources from natural forests to forest industries by 20% over five successive years, starting
September 1, 1999.
*  The project would also provide the impetus for continuing the process of institutional reform by
funding an in-depth Sector Management Study that would provide KFD's management with tools to
strengthen their organization's planning and implementation capacity and their relationship with
other sector entities and stakeholders.



Page 5
3. Benefits and target population:
* The project is primarily designed to initiate a process of sector development that would assist KFD
to meet its challenges through proper institutional and policy changes, as well as through investments
in forestry development and conservation. Policy actions, institutional strengthening and site-
specific forestry investments should provide substantial benefits and these benefits would extend
well beyond the project period.
* The project would increase the production of wood, non-wood forest products (NWFPs) and other
forest products. In 23,000 ha of less disturbed natural forest the quality of forests, biodiversity
values, watershed values and NWFP production would be enhanced. In 4,700 ha the bamboo, canes
and reed resources would be rehabilitated which would enhance income generation of local
population. Forest productivity would be improved on 9,000 ha of degraded forests.
* The project would also have important benefits in terms of empowerment and equity, as alternative
income generating activities through participatory forest management (PFM) and village
eco-development program (VED). The proposed PFM arrangements would significantly enhance the
availability of many forest products that are collected to provide for household needs and secondary
income. Given that both these sub-components are pilots, the number of village settlements and
households covered under the project is small. Overall, the PFM would cover approximately 80-90
village settlements and VED would cover about 40 villages which represent roughly about 12,000 to
15,000 households.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project would be implemented over a four-year period.
Executing Agency: Kerala Forest Department (KFD) and Government of Kerala (GOK)
Project Implementation Plan: The project team has appraised the draft Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) and found it satisfactory. PIP and its accompanying annexes record the agreed time-bound action
plan, procedures and criteria to be used by KFD for project implementation and the indicators to be used
in project monitoring and evaluation. In addition to PIP, an annual implementation plan including:
(a) the detailed implementation program for various components; (b) procurement plan; and (c) training
plan covering contracts for training and placement and support of overseas trainees, agreed and
satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the annual
plan would be prepared by December 31 of each year starting in 1998. The detailed annual
implementation plan for the year 1998/99 would be submitted to IDA no later than April 15, 1998.
Project Oversight: A Project Steering and Finance Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary, and
under the vice chairmanship of the Principal Secretary, Forests and Wildlife Department (PS-F&WLD),
has already been established for overall policy guidance to project management during implementation
and for safeguarding availability and flow of funds to the project A Project Coordination Committee
under the chairmanship of the PS-F&WLD has also been established for directing and overseeing
implementation and for major financial and personnel decisions. Its convener is the Director/CCF of the
Project Cell (PC). In addition, four departmental Technical Sub-Committees, i.e. HRD, Forest
Development, Wildlife & Biodiversity and PFM Sub-Committees, have been established to resolve
technical issues. The departmental technical committees would be chaired by the PCCFs. Divisional
Coordination Committees, consisting of members from NGOs, Panchayats, and other departments at the
local level would also be established to coordinate PFM and ecodevelopment activities at the district
level. To safeguard the continuous and smooth working of all committees at all times, each committee
has in addition to its high-ranking convener (a full Committee Member) a competent Working Secretary



Page 6
(a non-member). The Working Secretaries have been appointed for all six committees. Details of
membership and functions of these committees are presented in PIP Annex 11.
Project Coordination: Day-to-day implementation would be carried out by the Project Cell and would
be the main contact for IDA. PC, already established and satisfactorily structured, does not have an
implementing role but acts as a project facilitation office. It is headed by a CCF on a full-time basis who
reports to the PCCF and is assisted by two CFs and 4 ACFs; each has distinct functional responsibilities.
The PC would be responsible for coordination of all project-funded activities in accordance with the
time-bound action plan presented in the PIP Annex 12. Consistent with this principle, the project is
designed so that project activities are fully integrated into the normal line organization and operations of
KFD, and that PC does not become a parallel implementing structure. However, for certain innovative
processes and actions, such as activities aiming at institutional and policy changes, the Project Director
would be the driving force to champion and monitor the policy and institutional change, and a qualified
officer has already been attached to PC to assist the Director in this task. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the full professional staffing of PC (including contract staff) would be a
condition ofproject effectiveness.
Implementation Responsibilities by Component: Details of implementation responsibilities by
component are presented in Annex 2, together with the main assurances obtained to ensure effective
implementation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the of key implementation stafffor
all project components would be designated before project effectiveness.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: KFD would design, develop and
maintain Project Financial Management Systems according to the guidelines as detailed in Annex 6.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that KFD would before project effectiveness appoint
finance systems designer, and develop the computerized project Financial Management System and
implement the system by March 31, 1999. The Financial Management System would be integrated
within the Forest management Information System (FMIS). PC has in place a full time dedicated
finance and accounts professional to work as a Finance Manager. He would be responsible for financial
planning and reporting, accounting, and submission of withdrawal requests to IDA. The Finance
Manager would be a qualified accountant and experienced finance professional. He would be
responsible for preparing and furnishing to IDA a project financial report on a quarterly basis.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the project accounts would be subject to normal GOI
and GOK accounting procedures and controls.
Auditing: Project Financial Statements would be audited annually in accordance with standards on
auditing acceptable to IDA by an independent auditor. The Comptroller and Auditor General of India
and his appointees would constitute an independent auditor. KFD would also create an Internal Audit
Unit comprising an Internal Auditor and two audit assistants to ensure that internal control system and
procedures are adequate and complied with. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the audit
report would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
Disbursement: Disbursements are projected over a period of four years from FY 1999 to 2002.
Annex 6 provides the details of Credit proceeds. To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account
in U.S. dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of India with an authorized allocation of
US$2.5 million. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOK would implement a system
satisfactory to IDA for channeling funds required for carrying out the project.
PPF and Retroactive Financing: To advance project preparation, two consecutive PPFs totaling
US$1.0 million were approved to complete several up-front actions needed to build KFD's capacity and
initiate training plans and technical assistance before project implementation. In addition to the two



Page 7
PPFs, GOK has requested a provision for retroactive financing to cover expenses that would be incurred
for the first year's plantation. Since forestry is a seasonal activity, and the first year's pre-plantation
activities start in February 1998, retroactive financing of up to SDR 2.3 (US$3.0 million equivalent)
would be provided to ensure that the first year's forestry activities are carried out between February 1,
1998, and the date of Credit signing in May/June 1998.
Procurement: Procurement would be in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA as summarized
in Annex 6. KFD does not have experience in procuring goods, works and hiring of consultancy services
in accordance with the IDA procedures for international and local competitive bidding. Since it would
not be possible to acquire the expertise in a short period, the services of a procurement agent would be
hired. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the appointment of the procurement agent
would be a condition ofproject effectiveness. Funds for the recruitment of a procurement agent would be
available. Procurement would be in accordance with the procurement schedule presented in PIP
Annex 14. Standard procurement documents as already agreed with GOI and GOK would be used.
Progress with procurement would be reported in the six-monthly progress reports.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation would rest with the
Director, PC, who would be assisted by an officer in charge of monitoring and evaluation. This function
would be accomplished through computerized project and data management tools that would be
introduced under FMIS. The project objectives would be regularly monitored against the performance
indicators. Key development indicators are presented in Annex 1. More detailed indicators required to
monitor project implementation are presented in PIP and these would be finalized and if necessary
further developed by KFD in the course of the design and implementation of the monitoring system.
Reporting, Mid-term and Completion Reviews: The PC would be responsible for preparing six-
monthly progress reports to be submitted not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year for the
preceding six months, in the format presented. It was agreed during negotiations that a project review
would be held and discussed with IDA no later than September 30, 2000, and the recommendations of
the review would thereafter be implemented not later than December 31, 2000. The review would
involve KFD, which would prepare in advance a working paper to facilitate the review, and IDA and
would establish progress toward the main project objectives and not merely an inventory of
disbursements. To this end, the review would focus on the key indicators presented in Annex 1.
Project Supervision and Completion Report: Each year, IDA would conduct two supervision
mnissions, and the first mission would correspond with a project launching workshop. KFD staff, in
particular PC staff responsible for monitoring and evaluation, would play a key role in these supervision
activities. Project supervision would be closely linked to the implementation schedule discussed above
and would involve monitoring a number of key development objective indicators. An implementation
completion report (ICR) would be prepared at least six months prior to the Closing Date, and would
focus on the achievements of the project and its impact in relation to its objectives as reflected by the key
indicators presented in Annex 1.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* The first project proposal received from GOK in 1993 was narrowly focused on assistance to be
given mostly to the public sector agencies and, in the main, to financing ongoing, traditional forestry
operations. The proposal lacked plans to involve other stakeholders and did not envisage
institutional or policy reforms in the sector. The proposal, while not accepted as such, was the
beginning of a lengthy preparation process for the proposed project.



Page 8
* Possible alternatives to the project as proposed would be a project of longer duration and larger size,
or one that does not address the forestry sector as a whole but only selected sector activities and
aspects. Experience with past and ongoing forestry projects in India strongly suggests that these
alternatives would not be effective mechanisms for improving sector performance. Alternatives for
individual components are discussed below.
*  Participatory Forest Management. A project with a much larger component of participatory forest
management was considered during preparation, when GOK was assisted by independent
consultants. This, however, was reduced to pilot scale when it emerged from project preparation that
Kerala has almost no experience with PFM, and that conditions conducive to PFM arrangements (as
developed in other States in India) exist only in limited geographical areas mainly in remote tribal or
non-tribal forest settlements, or in encroached areas where conditions are somewhat similar to those
in other states. It was agreed during project preparation that KFD needs to develop participatory
approaches tailored to the specific socio-economic conditions of rural Kerala, and as such has
designed a purposeful learning program to develop appropriate PFM.
*  Institutional Development of Other Stakeholders and Commercial Sector Involvement. The
Kerala Forest Development Corporation (KFDC) plays a potentially important role in the production
of industrial plantation wood, and so do a few public sector and private sector forest companies. A
change in the role of KFDC to a more commercially-oriented enterprise has been considered, but no
agreements have been reached prior to the completion of a project-financed study to examine
options. The involvement of commercial forest companies in existing industrial forest plantations
was also considered, but current GOI legislation does not permit the leasing of forest reserve land to
commercial firms except the KFDC. Another alternative could be some form ofjoint venture
between KFDC and wood-based companies, but this would depend on future decisions about the role
of KFDC. The possibility of private sector provision of extension services for farm forestry was
considered but is, for the time being, not yet regarded as a realistic option. However, pilot operation
of private nurseries would be promoted by the project.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                     Project/Effectiveness Date            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implement   Development
ation    Objective (DO)
Progress
(IP)
Bank-financed
Forestry Sector Performance   Maharashtra Forestry    5/12/92                      S              S
West Bengal Forestry    6/23/92                       S             S
Andhra Pradesh Forestry 7/29/94                       S             S
Madhya Pradesh Forestry 9/29/95                       S             S
Uttar Pradesh Forestry   2/10/98 (planned)           NA            NA
Forestry Research Efficiency    Forestry Research, Education and Extension 9/30/94  U             U
EcodevelopmentlBiodiversity    Ecodevelopment      1/1/97                           U             S
Conservation
Watershed Management/Soil   IWDP Hills            5/10/91                           S             S
Conservation                  IWDP Plains         2/18/91                           S             S
Other development agencies
OECF                          Gujarat Integrated Forestry Development Rajastan
Afforestation and Pasture Development
Rajastan Afforestation Project Aravalli Hill
Rajastan Forestry Development
Tamil Nadu Forestry and Ecorestoration
Karnataka Forestry and Environment
United Kingdom                Ghats Forestry Project
Himachal Pradesh Forestry Project
EU                            Haryana Rehabilitation of Common Lands
FRG                           Himachal Pradesh Ecodevelopment for Changar Valley  _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
* Experiences gained through project supervision, project completion reports and reviews of the
forestry sector in India and the Asia region have been assessed. In the past, forestry projects in India,
mainly providing support for social forestry and watershed protection activities, have had mixed
success. The involvement of local people in project-funded activities was inadequate in several of
these projects. Many of the projects also encountered implementation problems due to slow project
start-up, institutional weaknesses and insufficient local funding particularly at the beginning. The
major lesson from the early projects was that the programs were too narrowly designed to adequately
address the complex issues affecting the forest sector. Other important lessons learnt from more
recent projects are: (a) the need to ensure Government commitment to policy changes and
institutional reforms, and early Government action on these; (b) an emphasis on improved
technology and productivity, particularly improved planting material; (c) better processes to involve
local communities in the planning and management of forest resources; (d) better extension services
and a more enabling environment for private smallholder treefarmers; (e) the need to develop a



Page 1 0
sound concept and framework at state level for biodiversity conservation prior to major investments;
and (f) the need to maintain staff continuity of project management and to build procurement skills.
These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* Through its preparation of the State Forest Action Program 1996 and the detailed preparation of this
proposed project, GOK has become conscious of the issues constraining the performance of the
forest sector, as well as of the need for change in the sector, which are reflected in the relevant
program and project documentation produced by GOK. GOK requested GOI to seek IDA finance to
assist with the introduction of the necessary changes. KFD staff participated with a team of
consultants in the preparation of the project and were involved in an intensive dialogue with IDA
mission members during IDA pre-appraisal and appraisal missions. KFD have also carried out most
agreed actions with funding from a PPF, most significantly, training and reorientation of staff, as
well as additional project preparation studies, and have submitted through GOI a request for a second
PPF to finance selected, vital early project activities prior to the proposed project's effectiveness.
Government commitment is also reflected by actions taken to meet the conditions of negotiation,
which include policy reform, institutional arrangements for implementation and the submission of a
detailed PIP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Future development of the forestry sector in Kerala in accordance with the National Forest Policy
and the State Forest Policy will require long-term commitments of considerable magnitude. IDA is
one of the few institutions that could provide the necessary continuity of support. IDA's
involvement in several similar state forestry projects provides a mechanism for transferring up-to-
date practical experience with project implementation. This experience enables the Bank to engage
in a constructive dialogue on sector management issues with both state and central governments, and
generate synergy among the former and between the former and the latter.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4 and Annex 4A):
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=Rs. 40 million (12%, 65 years); ERR= 12%
* The direct and quantifiable benefits of the project are mainly due to investments in the management
and development of forests for: (a) natural forest regeneration and management; (b) participatory
forest management (PFM); and (c) industrial plantations. The overall economic analysis, therefore
excludes the entire biodiversity conservation and those sub-components of the forest management
component, such as adaptive research, fire protection and homestead forestry, for which it was not
possible to quantify the benefits. Nonetheless, in each case, benefits are expected to cover at least
their share of costs. The overall economic returns to the remaining subcomponents were estimated
to be 12%, just above the Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC), with a positive NPV (12%, 65 years)
of Rs 40 million. The economic returns to the natural forest management sub-component are 10%,
well below the 12% OCC for projects in India. However, this excludes the large externalities related
to the environmental benefits. For the PFM sub-component, the economic returns are estimated to
be 13%. This should be considered as a lower bound, since the institutional arrangements
surrounding PFM are likely to result in better selection of sites and activities and more effective
protection of growing stock. Besides, the subcomponent is a pilot and as such is relatively small.
The economic returns to industrial plantations are high at 20% for teak and 38% for pulpwood.
These are the returns to the incremental costs of the new technology and management practices



Page 1 1
introduced by the project. These returns, however, do not take into consideration considerable
conservation and environmental benefits as well as policy benefits which have not been included in
the calculations. The Western Ghats is a particularly important source of environmental and
biodiversity benefits. In addition, the project would generate important benefits in terms of efficient
river flows as a result of trees in the catchment, thus reducing the risks of extreme flooding with
considerable downstream economic benefits for agriculture. These benefits are highly positive in the
case of Kerala. Policy actions and institutional strengthening of the forestry sector would provide
substantial benefits and would extend well beyond the four-year project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4A)
Financial analysis was carried out for the following two sub-components: (a) PFM; and
(b) industrial plantations.
*  Participatory Forest Management. In the case of the PFM sub-component, the critical factor is
whether the program would be sufficiently attractive to local communities to participate in an
effective and sustainable way under the proposed benefit and cost sharing arrangements. A model of
expected benefits was prepared to show likely returns to the 100 ha micro-plan model. The benefit
and cost model for a 100 has micro-plan was used to analyze the separate returns to the VSS and
KFD using both the cost-sharing and benefit-sharing arrangements set out in the project. Though the
overall financial returns to the micro-plan are relatively low (FRR of 15%), the returns to the VSS
are considerably higher (FRR of 29%). This suggests that there is an incentive for villagers to
participate. The financial returns to KFD are only 4%. However, KFD's interest is more on the
conservation and economic benefits than in revenue generation and, with more effective protection,
the risks to the investments are considerably reduced.
*  Industrial Plantations. In the case of the industrial plantations, the critical issue is whether these
are a good use of public resources. In the teak plantations, intermediate production is expected to
increase four times and final production to be doubled as a result of project interventions. The
financial returns to the investment were considered from two perspectives: (a) the returns from new
technology; and (b) the overall returns to government of the total investment. In both cases, the
returns exceed the OCC of 12%. The returns to the incremental investments in new technology are
relatively high at 18% with NPV of Rs.33 million, but the overall returns to teak investments also
show a 14% return, consistent with private sector expectations. In the case of eucalyptus if market
rates are used, the financial returns to new technology are extremely high at 38%. With the subsidy
removal (roughly equal to 33% of market prices) and the introduction of new technology, the
combined effect would be high financial returns with a FRR of 42% and NPV of Rs 183 million.
*  Fiscal impact: The impact of the project on government expenditure and revenue generation is
difficult to determine in the long run since it would depend on changes in policies especially with
regard to the green felling ban. In the medium term, revenue would increase with the removal of
subsidies first on pulpwood by 20% over five successive years, starting September 1, 1999, and on
bamboo and reeds (from the start of the next phase). The project generates considerable GOK post-
project commitments, amounting to 28% of the costs over a seven-year period. In the first post
project year, assuming no new investment takes place, the post project commitment is for 50% of the
funding required in the last year of the project. In the two subsequent years, this declines to 30% and
12.5%. The impact of the project on the KFD development budget rises from 5% to over 30% by the
end of the project. The post project commitment in the first year after the project is 16% of
development budget.
* Funding Mechanisms: To strengthen cost recovery, the project proposes to establish transparent
and more accountable funding mechanisms for the funding of the industrial plantations. A revolving



Page 12
fund would be set-up with separate accounts for teak and pulpwood. Each account would hold a
portion of the sales proceeds of that crop e.g. for teak 5% and pulpwood 50%. To ensure full
accountability, these funds would be held "on account" to other areas only after the sustainability
(protection and maintenance) of the first area is secured.
3. Technical:
* Project proposals for improvement of sector management are linked to a management consultant
study in the first project year of the existing management practices and structure of KFD. The large
human resources development program under the project is based on modern approaches to
manpower planning, skill gap analysis, specialization, and competency-based as well as need-based
training. Forest management planning involves the development of multi-layer forest management
plans to gradually replace the outmoded Forest Working Plans, and the improvement of information
management procedures through increased use of spatial and remote sensing data, supported by a
new FMIS that would include modem GIS.
*  Forest management technologies would be suited to particular resource and socio-economic
contexts with varying roles and responsibilities for KFD, forest user groups and farmers. The
following main management situations would be addressed by the proposed project: (a)
management of less degraded natural forests by KFD would be based on two established silvicultural
concepts: (i) assisted natural regeneration mainly in reasonably but unevenly stocked forests,
frequently with insufficient natural regeneration; and (ii) restoration of reeds and bamboos in areas
where these resources have been excessively harvested; (b) in the management of degraded natural
forests by KFD and forest user groups, rehabilitation practices of varying intensities would be
employed, depending on the degree of degradation, and would include sowing and planting, coppice
management, regeneration maintenance and protection. While improvements would be introduced
through detailed site-specific plans for areas to be managed by KFD, this would be achieved through
participatory micro-plans for areas to be managed under the PFM pilot component; (c) project
support for industrial plantation forestry by KFD or KFDC would be dependent on the use of
improved planting material and silvicultural practices, which implies improved seed selection and
the introduction of modem nursery techniques at a rapidly increasing scale of operation; likewise,
(d) the focus of the farm forestry program would be the development of modem private nurseries
producing high quality seedlings, coupled with a regulatory environment that is conducive to tree
growing by private farmers.
*  Improved management planningfor PAs and the development of a statewide framework for the
conservation of the totality of habitats and ecosystems in the state, i.e. both inside and outside PAs,
would make important technical contributions to efficient biodiversity conservation programs.
4. Institutional:
* Executing agencies: KFD would be the main executing agency for the project under the overall
leadership of the PCCF who reports to the PS - F&WLD. KFD is a long established department with
a well-defmed structure. The highest echelon officers are members of the Indian Forest Service, an
all-India service, with rigorous selection and training procedures. Other staff belong to the State
Forest Service. The Department has a long tradition of forest management and a presence in all parts
of the state. However, the traditional role of KFD has been the protection and exploitation of forest
resources for the state and industry. The new role required by the National Forest Policy requires a
fundamental change in approach, from regulation and control to participation and cooperation with
local communities, and the provision of advice. The project would foster this major change in
approach to which KFD management is committed. As the rate of change is likely to be slow, the
escalation of project activities takes this into account and is explicitly linked to the large training
program under the project.



Page 13
*  Project Management: PC would play a key role in the management of the project, providing
support to the PCCF and senior staffof KFD. KFD has already appointed a CCF as Project Director,
supported by two CFs and other staff. Assurances were obtained during negotiations thatfull
professional staffing of the PC would be a condition of project effectiveness. The development of a
project-financed FMIS would provide an invaluable tool for improving the management of the
Department as a whole.
5. Social:
*  Social Variations and Complexity: The majority of population in Kerala live in the coastal and
midhill belts where landholdings are extremely small, an average size of 0.3 ha with 90% of all
landholdings being less than I ha. Homestead agroforestry is a unique feature in Kerala. Unlike
other states, Kerala has no distinctly demarcated "villages". It has only settlements inside forest
reserves (known as "forest settlements") which have distinct definition and social grouping. Many
old tribal settlements have significant non-tribal farming populations. The heterogeneous social
settings mean that effective social targeting would play a critical part in the success of PFM and
ecodevelopment programs. The pilot work initiated under the project preparation has concluded that
workable population groupings for PFM (of not more than 100 households) and ecodevelopment
may be defined in terms of location and proximity to the forest, according to family (or clan) ties, or
according to forest use and dependence. The KFD has adopted a purposeful learning process
approach to the development and introduction of participatory forestry in the State to ensure that
effective social and institutional arrangements are developed to sustain the PFM and ecodevelopment
programs. The procedures for stakeholder identification and social targeting would use a number of
social criteria (such as, gender, poverty, class, caste, tribal group and forest dependence ) for
ensuring that all disadvantaged groups have access to essential forest products and active
participation in the development of sustainable PFM or ecodevelopment.
  Poverty: While people in Kerala enjoy a higher standard of living than those in many other states
(especially as regards access to health care and education), income levels remain low. Poverty
distribution varies across the State although generally the high hills are poorer and less developed
than the coastal and midhill regions. To address poverty and create assets and income for the poor
under the project, careful social targeting in project activities would be done. The KFD's strong
emphasis on involving local NGOs and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) in planning and
implementation of the PFM and ecodevelopment programs would be a crucial mechanism for
ensuring a poverty alleviation focus. Besides, the project's emphasis on training KFD staff and
NGOs/CBOs in basic stakeholder analysis, social targeting, and formation of user groups would
enhance the long term institutional capacity at the field level and also provide a socially sustainable
basis for forest management. The PFM and ecodevelopment rules and guidelines ensure that there
would be representation from the poor, tribals and scheduled castes on the VSS, thus there is a good
chance that the poor would get a voice in the decision making over PFM and ecodevelopment.
*  Gender: PFM, eco-development and homestead forestry would involve both men and women
according to existing division of labor in the management of natural and farm resources. Though
women in Kerala are better educated than in other States and often find themselves in the de-facto
decision-making role, for most of the social groups involved in project activities men tend to
dominate decision making on access to forests and marketing of forest goods. Women and children
are the predominant collectors of fuelwood, fodder and NWFPs. The project would address the
situation of women and their problems as part of the social targeting efforts under PFM and
ecodevelopment and by targeting forestry extension services to their needs. The capacity building
inputs from NGOs/CBOs as well as hiring of female extension agents would support women in
decision making functions and in the efforts to enhance the availability of forest products for basic



Page 14
household needs and secondary incomes. The participation of women would be institutionalized
through: (a) their representation as a unique stakeholder group in the VSS (village forest
management group); and (b) their involvement during the process of micro-planning to single out the
activities which would benefit women.
*  Indigenous peoples, Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes: Twenty-three percent of the State's
tribal population live inside forest reserves (approximately 73,000 people comprising more than 30
different tribes and scheduled castes). Although tribals make up only 1. 1% of the State's population,
they remain the majority population group living inside forest reserves (approximately 70%), and
they remain highly dependent on the forests for subsistence goods, collection of NWFPs for trade
and forest wage labor. However, the decreased opportunities for forest wage labor and the high
agricultural wage rate as well as extensive deforestation and conversion of natural forests to
plantations have led to an erosion of their traditional forest-dependent livelihood. In addition, the
institutions established to support tribals in their efforts to market forest goods (known as the tribal
cooperatives) have largely failed to provide adequate marketing opportunities and incentives. There
are five scheduled castes living in forest areas (the Cheruman, Mavilan, Paravan, Pulayan and Velan)
whose livelihoods are also highly dependent on the forest. These groups would therefore be critical
participants in the PFM and eco-development programs. The project would address their concerns
through a sequence of participatory arrangements, social targeting, and formation of forest user
groups in particular. The project would also benefit the tribal populations in targeting them as sub-
groups and stakeholders, according to their specific needs and development potential, rather than
through a subsidiary indigenous peoples' development plan. The PFM program would provide some
support for the wider development of the tribal settlements situated in remote forest locations where
there is little or no access to other government support and services. The project would draw upon
lessons learned in Bank supported projects in other parts of India, as well as from the KFDs
experiences in working with tribals in forest areas. The KFD would also work closely with local
NGOs who have a long record in working with tribal groups.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category       [ ] A,   [x ] B    [] C
  The project has been classified in the "B" category. An environmental review was undertaken
during project appraisal. The review concluded that overall the major potential environmental
impact is positive. The project has significant environmental benefits for sustainable forest
management, biodiversity conservation, and for the people living in the fringes and in the forests
itself. It would reduce the pressure on the natural forest areas, control fires, improve and assist
natural regeneration, support biodiversity conservation, initiate PFM and increase production of
forest produce from existing industrial plantations and homesteads. The limited environmental
impacts of the project are relatively easy to mitigate. The project has in-built actions to mitigate the
past and present environmental and social pressures on the quality of the forests in Kerala. It has a
comprehensive mitigation plan since environmental concerns are mainstreamed in almost every
project component, and are integrated in planning, design, implementation and monitoring activities
both at the local and regional scales. Project activities would reduce the pressure on forest resources
through a combination of productivity enhancement and ecosystem restoration practices as well as
through participatory management arrangements. The project activities would also support several
biodiversity conservation initiatives, including one of the 18 biodiversity hot spots in the World
(Western Ghats), and wetlands and coastal zone habitats of high biodiversity value. The project is
not supporting large scale infrastructure activities or any other investment leading to large
environmental impacts. Investments are small, environmentally friendly and limited in scope,
therefore causing no adverse environmental impacts.
*  The project is consistent with the World Bank Operational Policies and Directives for forestry
activities and environmental assessment (OD/OP 4.01; 4.36 and 4.04), Indigenous People (OD 4.20),



Page 15
and Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30). There is no resettlement (R&R) and land acquisition
involved under the project.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
* The extent and nature of participation would vary from one component of the project (and
subsequent programs) to another. The PFM approach and ecodevelopment programs would
necessarily involve interested local forest users in the design and implementation of the program and
to this end the KFD would work closely with local NGOs/CBOs in implementation. Similarly,
support to homestead forestry would be planned and implemented with local farmers and interested
private sector entrepreneurs to promote private sector production of timber and other forest products
and private sector production of seedlings. The aim of KFD's institutional reform which underpins
the project is to institute a process whereby it becomes a more service driven responsive
organization. Therefore in all aspects of its work it would adopt a more collaborative approach with
clients and stakeholders.
b. Other key stakeholders:
* In addition to the village communities and local NGOs/CBOs, GOK departments such as KFD,
KFDC, Kerala Forestry Research Institute (KFRI) as well as the local government institutions are
directly involved in the planning and implementation of the project activities.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
* Sustainability would be addressed at three levels: a) technical sustainability would focus on the
appropriate management of the sector and promote approaches and technologies that would increase
the forest cover and conserve biodiversity. The mainstreaming of environmental concerns into the
planning and implementation of KFD activities would contribute to long-term sustainability;
(b) institutional sustainability would be ensured by the significant commitment by KFD to the
process of change underlying the project and is an important indicator of the sustainability of the
project. The introduction of PFM involving active participation of communities is essential to
achieve project objectives in a sustainable manner; and (c) financial sustainability would be
pursued by: (i) removing subsidies on pulpwood which would generate revenue for KFD; and
(ii) promoting incentives and activities that would involve local communities in managing and
protecting the forest. Community contributions to forest management would also enhance the
financial sustainability.



Page 16
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                          Risk              Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Sector Management
Continued GOK/KFD political support to policy and  Medium   Agreement on sectoral strategy with associated
institutional reforms is not maintained so that new         policy changes formalized through the issue of GOs.
policies cannot have an impact                              Also, as this is the first stage of a planned phased
approach to sector development, it provides a means
for GOK to demonstrate commitment to change.
Process change and human resource development are    Low    Institutional development as a key project activity,
not undertaken or do not equip KFD to fulfill its role as   addresses this risk. A major focus would be on
the nodal public sector agency for implementing the new     human resource development to equip staff with the
strategy                                                    required skills and attitudes to change the current
structure and relationships.
Forest Management
Political support for community institutions is not  Low    Political support for increased community
maintained                                                  participation is enshrined in the Panchayati Raj Act.
Participatory arrangements for management of forests   Low  Development of guidelines and criteria to promote
does not prove effective                                    and measure decision-making by local communities.
Analysis of cost and benefit sharing arrangements
indicate that there are strong incentives for
participation. These would be closely monitored.
Staff training in PFM would also support
development of empowered local institutions.
Biodiversity Conservation
Political will for biodiversity conservation is not  Low    GOI legislation and the active conservation lobby
maintained                                                  would ensure that biodiversity conservation remains
an integral part of GOK programs.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Policy Reforms, Institutional and Human
Development
The recommendations of the Sector study are not   Low       Process change forms the core of project design, and
implemented                                                is strongly endorsed by GOK. Activities undertaken
prior to project effectiveness indicate KFD
commitment to change.
Continuity of leaders and "specialist staff' in KFD and   Low  Assurances were obtained that key professional staff
Project Cell is not maintained                              and specialists would be recruited before project
effectiveness and maintained thereafter.
Forest Sector Strengthening
KFD does not adopt participatory approach to forest  Low    Project provides orientation and training programs to
management                                                  ensure that staff will understand and promote
participatory management.
Incentives for small growers (homestead) do not remain  Low  Agreed policy changes, such as felling and transit
attractive                                                 laws, would be implemented and would improve the
environment for private growers.
Strengthening of Biodiversity Conservation
KFD does not maintain staffing strength of Wildlife  Low    Assurances were obtained that the implementation
Wing                                                        staff is on board before project effectiveness and
maintained thereafter.
Overall Risk Rating                               Low      I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* Phasing out of pulpwood subsidies has been a sensitive issue because of its potential social and
economic implications. To minimize these risks, GOK has decided to gradually phase out subsidy.
A rational implementation of this decision would be conducive for safeguarding the interests of all
stakeholders involved.
* The survival of departmental plantations, which has suffered due to several factors particularly lack
of decentralization, is another controversial area. The project would therefore attempt to put in place
a system of decentralization and transfer accountability to decentralized staff.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* GOK would recruit (with the exception of award of contract) consultants, acceptable to IDA, to
review the management processes in the forestry sector institutions in Kerala and propose
recommendations for their development.
* KFD would appoint: the Procurement Agent, FMIS Manager and Finance Systems Designer for the
project cell; and designate the key implementation staff for all project components, as specified in
Annex 2, and define their additional responsibilities
2. Other:
a. Disbursement
* No withdrawal would be made in respect of expenditures for the implementation of industrial
plantations treatments unless a functioning Revolving Fund with two separate accounts - one for teak
and the other for pulpwood - for financing annual replanting, maintenance and harvesting is in place;
b. Other Assurances
Implementation
* An annual Implementation Program, agreed and satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared for project
activities by December 31 of each year, starting 1998;
* The Forest Schedule of Rates (FSR) would be revised by December 31, 1998, based on the
prevailing market wage rates to make payments to the labor hired for all field operations;
* The review of the sector institutions' management processes would be completed by December 3 1,
1999, findings discussed and agreed, and agreement reached with IDA for substantive, time-based
implementation by June 30, 2000;
* A Human Resources Development Plan for KFD, setting out staffing policy linked to proposed
changes in the management system and institutional structures, would be prepared and reviewed with
IDA by June 30, 2000 and agreement reached with IDA for implementation by December 31, 2000;
* The financial management system would be implemented by March 31, 1999;
* The first three (i) PFM microplans and (ii) the first three VED microplans would be agreed with IDA



Page 18
before implementation but not later than September 30, 1998;
*  Area associated investments would be only carried out after prior finalization of: (i) site specific
plans for natural forest management treatments and industrial plantation treatments; (ii) village
microplans for the PFM program; and (iii) village microplans for the village ecodevelopment
program;
*  Treatment sites would be selected for treatment with finance from project funds in accordance with
criteria agreed with IDA, and industrial plantations developed using improved planting material,
silvicultural practices, and protection;
*  Necessary measures would be taken to abolish the subsidies for supply of pulp raw materials to
forest industries by 20% over five successive years, starting September 1, 1999, in accordance with a
formula agreed with IDA;
*  Applied forestry research, to be implemented by KFD and to be funded by the project, would be
based on a Strategic Plan acceptable to IDA, which would be submitted to IDA by November 30,
1999. Suitably qualified staff to undertake the research would be designated by December 31, 1999;
*  Necessary measures would be taken to promote tree planting on public lands;
*  Timely and adequate operational funds would be made available for the implementation of the
Kalady Forestry Study Center, to be funded by the project, after its completion and rehabilitation;
-  GOK would: (i) select the staff for overseas training under the project in consultation with IDA; and
(ii) post such staff upon completion of the training for at least three years in areas in which training
was received;
e  GOK would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channeling funds required for carrying out
the project;
*  A project mid-term review would be held by GOK no later than September 30, 2000, and discussed
with IDA no later than December 31, 2000.
Management
*  GOK would ensure that the Project Cell remains adequately staffed during project implementation,
and would consult IDA prior to replacing any of its key staff;
*  GOK would ensure that key implementation staff is retained until project completion;
*  For the purpose of assisting in carrying out the participatory components of the project, NGOs would
be selected in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with IDA; and
Involuntary Settlement
* There would be no involuntary relocation of any of the communities resident within PAs. Any
proposals for relocation would be preceded by an independent study to assess the impact of such
communities on the conservation of biodiversity in the project area. All proposals would be
consistent with GOI provisions and would be agreed with IDA in the light of the Bank's OD 4.20
and OD 4.30. In addition, a monitoring program by an independent agency acceptable to IDA would



Page 19
be established.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ x] The first year's civil works consist mostly of small works. It was agreed that a Procurement Agent
would be appointed by project effectiveness who would prepare and certify all tender documents for the
works.
[ x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities would be completed soon after the
Procurement Agent is on board, and would be ready for the start of project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Leader: Chris Keil                            ._/ountry Director: Edwin R. Lim
'The Task Team consisted of: Meena Munshi (Co-Task Leader), Julia Falconer, Irshad Khan, Ethel
Sennhauser (SASRD), Malcolm Jansen (SASES), Salman Salman (LEGSA), Cecil Perera (LOAAS),
S. Vani, N. Raman (SACND)






21
Annex 1
Kerala Forestry Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance         Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Implementation of the      1. Healthy and sustainably   *  ESW in the forestry sector  *  Stabilizing the forests
National Forest Policy (e.g.,  managed forests.           (periodic)                    and improving the
sustain forest ecological  2. Widespread tree growing                                   livelihood sources for
balance, improve livelihood   outside public forest                                    local people helps
sources for local people, and  land.                                                    alleviate poverty in a
provide sources of wood and                                                             sustainable way.
other products)
Project Development                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Arrest the retrograde trend    1. Forest cover stabilized in  Forest survey of India  *  Continued GOK/KFD
in forest cover development  intervention areas.          report (periodic).           commitment to the
and improve productivity in  2. Satisfactory stocking rates  *  FMIS reports under the  objectives of National
areas of project          and good growth in              project (periodic).          Forest Policy and the
interventions in Kerala in an  intervention areas.    *  supervision mission           new State Forest
environmentally and                                       reports.                     Strategy.
socially sustainable manner.                          *  evaluation mission reports
(mid-term & final).
Outputs:                                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
1. Strong KFD with        1. Policy reforms introduced;  1. Issuance of Government  *  Continued strong
improved admin. and forest  institutional sector study  Orders; sector study adoption;  political support for
mgt. processes and structure,  completed and adopted  KFD progress reports;             reforms.
within a framework of     training program successful;  consultants' reports;       .  Changes in
appropriate sector policies.   FMIS/GIS designed and  supervision and evaluation        stakeholder attitudes
running.                   mission reports.                  takes place to move
from asset depleting
2. Technical, social and  2. Forest stocking increased    2. Forest cover inventory     behaviors to asset
biological processes      to satisfactory level (living    (annual, KFRI); supervision  conserving
established and used to   no. of trees per hectare);  mission reports; evaluation       behaviors.
increase forest cover in  proportion of improved      mission reports (mid-term &
target areas.             planting stock used above   final).
baseline (% of total); evident
success of participatory
forestry pilots and homestead
forestry pilots.
3. Foundation secured for   3. Strategy developed for  3. Annual report of CCF
sustainability of protected    biodiversity conservation;  (Wildlife); cumulative reports
area system.              protected area network      from PA manager; report of
consolidated; decrease in  independent monitoring teams;
offenses around PA's;      supervision and evaluation
evident success of         mission reports.
ecodevelopment pilots.



22
Narrative Summary           Key Performance          Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                                  (Components to
components:                component)                                               Outputs)
1. Sector management       1. US$ 7.8 million.        Progress and disbursement     *  Management and
strengthening.                                        reports.                          staff of sector
*  policy reforms;                                                                      institutions intemalize
*  human resource                                                                       the change process.
development;
*  forest mgt. info. system;
*  project unit.
2. Forest management       2. US$ 33.9 million.       Progress and disbursement     *  Adequate and timely
strengthening                                         reports.                          flow of funds from
*  Natural forests                                                                      GOK.
rehabilitated (23,000                                                           *  Incentives for home
ha);                                                                                growers remain
*  participatory forest                                                                 attractive.
mgt.;                                                                           *  KFD adopts
*  Homestead Forestry;                                                                 participatory
*  Industrial plantations;                                                              approach to forest
*  Quality control and                                                                 mgt..
research.
3. Biodiversity conservation  3. US$ 5.3 million.     Progress and disbursement     *  KFD maintains
strengthening                                         reports.                          staffing strength for
*  ecodevelopment                                                                       Wildlife Wing.
program in 40 areas;                                                            *  Political support for
*  strategic planning;                                                                  establishment of
*  scientific research;                                                                 community
*  mgt. of PA system.                                -                                  institutions.



23
Annex IA
Kerala Forestry Project
Policy Reform Matrix
Recommended Action &
Issue and Status             Detrimental Effect              Proposed Change            Institution Responsible
O O.~~~~~~~~~ T  -77;:.    .::z.z:'U:
a. Management Approach.    Ineffective management of the    KFD to focus on three core       Vision Paper to be issued as
Command and control rather    forest resource leading to asset    objectives set forth in KFD's  document of Policy and
than a regulatory, client-    depletion rather than asset   Vision Paper.                    Strategy by GOK.
oriented approach.           building in the sector.                                         Re-orientation of staff at all
levels to the new role of
KFD.
b. Management Procedures.   Ground staff unable to make     More decision making authority to   KFD to review management
Centralized with top-down    decision necessary to implement  be delegated to field staff.   procedures and recommend
decision making.             programs on a site-specific                                     new procedures to empower
basis.                                                         staff to make area and
Initiative of field staff is stifled.                          situation-specific decision.
Field staff losing interest in                                 GOK to issue G.O. for
biological aspects of forestry.                                revised procedures.
c. Planning, Monitoring and   Decision based on limited, stale   All decisions to be based on up-to-  KFD to (a) implement new
Evaluation (PME). Lack of   information with inadequate     date information.                Forest Management
accurate, responsive         analysis-particularly for      Improve information systems so    Information System (FMIS);
information system to provide    economic consequences of   that feedback from the improved    (b) establish policy and
up-to-date information and   programs.                      systems allows dynamic           planning wing to manage
iterative procedures to adjust                              adjustment of work programs.    introduction of new FMIS;
work programs.                                                                               and (c) implement new PME
procedures.
d. Management Structure.     Overlapping management         Management structure to be       KFD to review management
Organization of KFD is not   responsibilities, inefficient use    modified so as to meet the  structure in the light of a
adjusted to support the current   of scarce resources and lack of   requirements of the new strategy  Sector Management Study
needs of agreed sector strategy.  focused support for new   and management procedures.       and make suitable
programs of special emphasis.                                  modifications.
e. Bureaucratic Funding      Forest activities are delayed.  Create financial systems that meet   General: KFD and Finance
Systems. Unable to deliver   Maintenance activities are less   the requirements of biological  Department to develop
funding to reflect the biological  than those required for efficient   production.           revised budgeting and
needs of forest activities.  plant growth.                                                   expenditure authorization
systems to allow sufficient
Low productivity in plantations.                               funds to arrive in the field on
Plantations financially and                                    time.
economically not viable.                                       Specific: KFD to establish
functional and timely
mechanisms to ensure flow
of funds to VSS and VED
Accounts for PFM and VED
activities.



24
Recommended Action &
Issue and Status            Detrimental Effect              Proposed Change               Institution Responsible
f. KFDC Organizational    KFDC has been lacking in        A beginning needs to be made for  A comprehensive review, early on
Set-up. KFDC, although a   entrepreneurship.              a process of study and analysis  during the project, of KFDC's
corporation, is not strictly    It rums some loss-making  that will identify a course     organization and management
operating like a commercial  operations.                 (alternative courses) of action to    aimed at identifying measures to
enterprise but in many ways                               be taken in order to transform  improve its commercial orientation
like a government agency.    There is a civil servant culture    KFDC into an efficient and  and viability.
in KFDC which impedes the     profitable, fully commercial
development of a more         enterprise.
effective commercial
orientation.
a. Staffing Levels. High    High non-plan expenditures.   Staffing levels to be related to  KFD to formulate staff policy and
staffing levels. Skill mix  Limited capacity to implement   functional units of modified  staffing plan related to functions of
not related to the needs of    sector strategy.           management structure.           re-structured department in the
the sector strategy.       Very slow implementation of    Retrain staff to achieve desired  light of a Sector Management
modern forest technological   skill mix.                       Study.
advances.                                                     KFD to design and implement
retraining program.
b. Staff Specialization.   Specialized skills, currently in    Develop a system that encourages  MOEF, GOK and KFD to actually
No staff specialization nor    short supply, are needed to  specialization through specialist   implement current official
any incentive to encourage    maximize benefits of modern    career development.          regulation that staff stay for at least
specialized competencies.    forest technology and                                        3 years in key positions.
management technology.                                         KFD to link postings to specialized
Lack of continuity in key                                     training for the positions that
positions delay effcient and                                   require the acquired new skills, and
effective adoption of modern                                  to apply this principle increasingly
forest and management                                         to transfers of staff.
technologies.
c. Promotion. Promotion   Promotion of poorly trained or   Promotion to be linked to      GOK and KFD to formulate and
not linked to competency   motivated staff.              appropriate competencies.        apply policy of promoting staff
development.                                                                              that has acquired specialized
training and competence.
d. HRD. No HRD plan.       Staff lack up-to-date technical   HRD to be given high priority.  KFD to develop and implement a
Many training programs are  and managerial skills.       Incentives to be given for trainers  training plan and associated
out-dated and inadequate.                                and trainees.                    curriculum development.
.~~. .*. *.~~~~.*   .*. . . . . . . . . . .. . . *. . . *. . . *. *.*.*. . . . . .* .* *.*~~~..    . .... ..... ....
a. Pricing. KFD is         Disincentive for private      Apply market prices to           KFD to phase out existing sales
committed to provide       investment and production of    commercial forest produce,     contracts with subsidized prices
pulpwood, reeds and        forest produce.               including pulpwood, plywood      and sell at market prices.
bamboo to industries at    Disincentive for KFD to invest  logs, bamboo and reeds.        KFD to implement captive
below-market prices.       in high-yield plantation      Introduce improved planting      plantations based on land rental at
technology.                   stock and establishment          market rental rates, and to
Disincentive for KFD to meet   technology in all industrial    encourage the industry to produce
production commitments.       plantations.                    their own raw material.
Over-cutting and un-          Introduce a system and incentives   KFD to develop a plan which
sustainable harvesting practices  to ensure improved practices in  makes cutting of reeds and bamboo
for reeds and bamboo.         captive pulpwood plantations on    sustainable.
increasing areas of public land.  KFD to authorize VSSs (in
development.                  Incentives to be re-introduced for   microplans) to manage harvesting
sustainable harvesting practices.   and marketing of bamboo and
reeds from PFM areas



25
Recommended Action &
Issue and Status           Detrimental Effect             Proposed Change            Institution Responsible
b. Timber Auctions. KFD   Buyers are required to advance one  Rules to be modified for buyers  GOK/KFD to modify auction
requires post-approval at    third of sales value or Rs. 20,000,  to obtain timber from all sales   procedures accordingly.
CF level for timber sales  whichever is less, but may need to   within two weeks.
through auction in case of    wait up to 3 months to obtain the
sales contracts valued in    timber, making it difficult for small
excess of Rs. 50,000.     operators to participate in auctions.
c. Felling and Transit   Discourages planting of trees on  Abolish felling and transit  KFD to propose amended
Regulations. Restrictions   private land.                regulations for all species  regulations and GOK to issue new
on felling of trees on   Reduces supply of wood produce   except sandalwood and       G.O. abolishing felling and
private lands and on transit  in Kerala                  rosewood.                    transit restrictions for wood
of wood.                                                                              produce except for specifically
mentioned high-value species.
d. Subsidies to new forest  Inefficient use of existing capacity.  Remove the subsidies; this will  GOK to abolish all incentives to
wood-based industries.   Wastage of national resources.  reduce the number of entrants   new forest wood-based industries.
Subsidies have encouraged                                into the sector.
new wood industries while
existing firms work at sub-
optimal capacity owing to
scarcity of raw materials.
e. Controlled marketing    Poor prices at 'forest gate' for  Removal of market distortions:  On a pilot basis, KFD to
of NTFPs, especially     NTFP collectors.                phase out controlled marketing   authorize VSSs to introduce
medicinal plant products.                                of NTFPs.                    sustainable NTFP harvesting,
Cooperatives have        Wasteful collection practices,                               particularly medicinal plants in
exclusive access to      entailing unsustained management  Give clear responsibility for  PFM areas. In these pilots, VSSs
marketed medicinal plants   of this valuable national resource.   supply to producer agency.  to be given freedom to market
from forest resources.                                                                products freely - to the open
Monopoly of price and     Unfair competition with private    Introduce sustainable    market or to the Cooperatives -
quantity control by, and  sector producers.              management systems for       without bureaucratic hindrance.
sale to KSF of SCIST                                     NTFPs.                       KFD to review NTFP marketing
Development Cooperatives.  Price signals not used to adjust                           & harvesting arrangements during
demand and supply.                                          sector reform process.
Study in year 3 to make proposals
for Phase 11 when PFM program
would be expanded.
f. Price subsidy for     Poor price signals              Gradual removal of subsidy   Study in year 2 of impact of
bamboo supply to KSBC,                                   and parallel development of  bamboo subsidies to make
with many artisan        Uneconomic resource allocation.   'safety net' for dependent  proposals and recommendations
households dependent for                                 people                      for implementation after MTR
livelihood.              Depressed incentives for private
Potentially uneconomic   and PFM producers
activity by KSBC.
a. Conservation Outside    Loss of critical ecosystems and  Biodiversity strategy to cover   KFD to develop and implement
PAs. Inadequate attention    endemic fauna and flora     entirety of ecosystems in the    landscape planning for
toward conservation of                                   State.                       biodiversity conservation in the
biodiversity in areas outside                                                         State.
PAs.
b. Protected Area System.  Unique ecosystem and species  Distribution of PAs to       KFD to complete a study on
Existing state-wide PA   outside present PAs are         correspond to the distribution    rationalizing the PA network and
network was not established  endangered.                 of representative ecosystems.   implement the results.
on a scientific basis.



26
Recommended Action &
Issue and Status             Detrimental Effect              Proposed Change             Institution Responsible
c. Human Pressure on       People have little incentive to  Peoples participation to      KFD to pilot participatory
PAs. Ineffective           conserve biodiversity.           become a normal part of PA    ecodevelopment around two
arrangements for people's    Unsustainable exploitation of  protection and management.    selected PAs.
participation in          resources within PAs.                                           GOK to issue G.O. on
conservation management                                                                   implementation for
of PAs.                                                                                   ecodevelopment program.
d. People in PAs. People    Long-term degradation of PA     Any relocation would be done   GOK to give an assurance that
reside within PAs.         resources.                      in a manner that is non-       there will be no involuntary
Potential adverse social affects of    coercive and socially  relocation from PAs. Any
involuntary relocation.          acceptable to the affected    voluntary relocation would be in
people.                       accordance with GOI and Bank
procedures for participatory
relocation supported by
transparento credible and
farming.                                                       su...._..............----------------.........verifiable inform aa tion.
grass.                                            after 4 years of pilot progra.....m.
a. People's Participation.   People see forests as a common  Peoples participation in     GOK to modify the existing G.O.
Ineffective acm angements for  resource which can be exploited by  sustainable forest management   on PFM establishing a frat ework
people's participation     all.                            to become a normal part of     for the development of PFM and
which is required for      People see (and gain) little value in  forest management.      appropriate benefit-sharing
sustainable and productive   (from) forests. Forests are viewed                           arrangements.
fcorest management.        mainly as potential land bank for                              KFD  to develop PFM approach
farDeing.                                                      suitable for Kerala conditions
Unss. i snatle regtion of        C                             through a spries of PFM pilots
areas f natral ad   forsts.enal                      haveclo  noicnietoihfie        trtg  o h  rvnino
firewood & grazing of cattle.                                  across the State.
Fires set to stimulate growth of                               GOK to revise G.O. & guidelines
a grass.                                                       after 4 years of pilot program
based on field experiencea
b. Encroachment of KFD   Degradation of forests.            Encroachment to be reduced    KFD to demarcate forest areas
Land. Continuing           Increased soil erosion.          and ultimately stopped.       and strictly enforce existing laws.
e ncroachment of KFD land         .... .KFD to develop strategies to
by people.                Reduction in biodiversity.                                     prevent any further encroachment
and manage encroached areas
c. Agricultural            Poor financial returns to GOK    Production of cash crops on   KFD to transfer leases of Forest
Productivity. Agricultural  from agricultural investmnent   Forest Land to be made        Land used for cash crop
cash crops managed by      managed by KFD.                  financially viable.           production to other operators if
KFD have been of low                                                                     found feasible after a study
productivity.
d. Fires. Fires affect large   Reduced natural regeneration of  Create conditions where people  KFD to prepare and implement a
areas of natural and       forest.                          have no incentive to light fires   strategy for the prevention of
plantation forests.        Decreased soil fertility.        but have incentives to prevent   fires.
Reue bidierit               fires.                        KFD to develop approaches to
Reduced blodlverslty   ~Significant reduction in forest   participatory protection of forests
area burnt annually.         under PFM program in general
and all new treatment sites
threatened by fires originating
from nearby settlements in
_                       ~~~~~~~~~~particular.



27
Recommended Action &
Issue and Status            Detrimental Effect             Proposed Change              Institution Responsible
e. Seedling distribution.    Discourages private entrepreneurs  Stop KFD policy of free or  KFD to amend Sector Policy
Free distribution of      from entering forest tree seedling   subsidized seedling production   Statement to remove clause
seedlings does not         production.                     & distribution.               regarding free seedling
encourage good survival    People do not tend seedlings well.  KFD to fully cost seedling  distribution.
rates.                     Wastes State resources.         production (i.e. to cost wages,   KFD to sell seedlings at full cost.
Fails to generate high quality  material inputs, overheads,   KFD to encourage private
seedlins. tognrtihqaiy          investments, etc.)           entrepreneurs to enter into tree
seedling production and to produce
good quality seedlings.
.....*....                  ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    ..........   
.....................   ~~*K.. *K 3K. 
a. Resource Information.   KFD unable to manage its estate    Generate required data through   KFD to design, test (through a
KFD unable to maintain     optimally.                      a continuous forest inventory    pilot operation) and put in place a
accurate and up-to-date                                    of the State's forest resources.   continuous forest inventory geared
information on area,                                                                    to FMIS.
volume etc. of its forest
estate.
b. Growth Measurement.   KFD is unable to predict yields   Growth measurements to be     KFD to implement a system of
KFD fails to measure forest  and optimize estate management.  taken and analyzed and     sample increment plots and adopt
crop growth.                                               resulting information used to    system of continuous measurement
plan annual work programs.   and recording.
c. Supply and Demand.    KFD unable to plan programs to    Good knowledge of supply and  KFD to recruit and retain
KFD unable to report       maximize efficiency of wood     demand for wood resources     economists for specialized career
accurately the supply and    resource utilization.         will result in effective planning   path to generate and interpret this
demand situation for wood                                 for the development of the     information.
resources.                                                forest sector.
a. Genetic Material.       Poor quality seedlings pf       All seeds to come from       KFD and KFDC to design, develop
Poor genetic quality of    unknown quality resulting in low   identified and approved    and implement programs for
seeds.                     productivity of plantations.    sources.                     quality seed procurement and
Evaluate all new seed sources    clonal introduction.
to determine potential
productivity gains.
b. Nurseries. KFD uses     Poor seedlings doom plantation    Introduce modem design and    KFD and KFDC to adopt modem
poor nursery techniques.   programs to low productivity.   management technologies in all  nursery practices in all nurseries.
GOK incurs large financial losses   nurseries.               KFD to train private entrepreneurs
on investments in plantation    Prepare Seedling Quality     in modem nursery techniques.
forestry.                       Standards for all major
plantation species.
These measures will produce
trees that in Kerala growing
conditions should exceed all-
India average yield levels.



28
Recommended Action &
Issue and Status            Detrimental Effect             Proposed Change              Institution Responsible
c. Departmental            Little linkage between priority  Research funded by KFD to   KFD to identify applied research
Research. Lack of overall   problems identified in the field  be directly linked to     needs, draft -jointly with KFRI - a
research strategy          and research undertaken.        development problems.        5-year research plan and implement
complementing national     Little transfer of new technology                            priority programs.
research programs.        into field operations.                                        KFRI to list research results
Research contributes little to                              concerning development problems,
actual management of the forest                             that have already been obtained and
resource.                                                    that can be immediately
implemented in field operations.
d. Departmental            Poor internal applied research  Silvicultural research       KFD to find feasible means to retain
Research Staff. Current    capabilities within KFD.        capabilities to support directly  trained specialist staff for longer
rotation policy for        Departmental research fails to  all essential forest operations   periods than at present and adopt a
personnel fails to develop    support departmental plantation    on a long-term basis.  five-year tenure for research staff.
trained/proficient research    activities.
staff.
e. Silvicultural           Inappropriate weeding and       Better matching of species to    KFD to issue regulation allowing
Operations. Rigid         thinning operations.             sites.                       greater delegation of authority and
Working Plans (WP)         Low survival rates.             Silvicultural methods and    responsibility for silvicultural
prohibit silvicultural                                    treatments to match site and  methods and treatments to lower
operations that match site  Yield levels that are 50% below  sadevlpntcdios.  level staff.
and stand development      the All-India average despite   stand development conditions.KFD to revise silvicultural manual.
conditions.                Kerala's favorable soils and
climate.
f. Harvesting of Reeds     Present exploitation of reeds and    Reeds and bamboo to be  KFD to develop a program for
and Bamboo. KFD allows   bamboo mines the resource.        harvested on a sustainable  training its own and the user
cutting practices that retard   Industrial users express fear that   basis.             companies' supervisory staff and
natural regeneration.      the resource may be depleted                                 VSS in scientific collection
within 10 years.                                             methods.
KFD to enforce cutting regulations
through tight supervision of
harvesting operations and resource
monitoring.
KFD to encourage sustainable
management practices in PFM
microplans.
g. Harvesting of           Degradation of medicinal plants    Medicinal plants to be    KFD to (a) develop and implement a
Medicinal Plants.          in situ.                        exploited on a sustainable   program for training collectors in
Unscientific exploitation of  Danger of extinction of selected    basis.                scientific harvesting and processing
medicinal plants.         species.                         Scientific collection of     methods; and (b) artificially
medicinal plants and artificial   propagate endangered species.KFD
propagation to be linked with  to introduce sustainable
specific studies at KFRI and    management practices through PFM
TBGRI.                      program with forest medicinal plant
collectors,



29
Annex 2
Kerala Forestry Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Strengthening of Sector Management US$7.8 million (total cost of
component). The sector management would be strengthened through policy reforms and
institutional development, human resource development, development of a forest management
information system and support to project management.
(a) Strengthen Policy Reform, Institutional and Human Resources Development
(HRD). The project, in recognition of the changing character of the forestry sector and
in support of GOK's and KFD's new Forest Policy Statement of 1997 would support a
wide range of policy reforms (PIP Annexes 1 and 2) intended to overcome identified
policy, regulatory, staffing and management, and technology issues which impede the
vigorous growth of the sector. GOK/KFD has officially adopted the new Policy and the
corrective agenda contained in the detailed Issues/Actions Matrix (Annex 1A).
Implementation of the agenda would also forge and strengthen the roles of, and linkages
to other public sector institutions, the private sector, forest and fringe forest dwellers,
and NGOs as important stake-holders in the forestry sector's development. The project
would particularly support GOK's efforts to correct fiscal and market distortions which
constitute a drain on the sector's resources, militate against the principle of sustainable
management or prevent important stakeholders from fully participating in forestry asset
creating activities.
(i) The component would provide the impetus for continuing the process of
institutional reform by funding an in-depth Sector Management Study which would
provide KFD's and KFDC's management with tools to strengthen their
organizations' planning and implementation capacity and their relationship with
other sector entities and stakeholders. KFD and KFDC would then spearhead a
campaign to bring about the highest priority changes identified in the study. The
study would be carried out by a qualified and experienced firm according to the
detailed terms of reference as shown in Attachment 1 of PIP, Annex 2. The sector
study would form the basis for sector reforms and organizational changes. In
addition to the sector study, two other studies on the effects of: (i) price control and
subsidies on the sustainable development of bamboos and reeds; and (ii) price and
marketing control on the sustainable development of NTFP have been included in
the project.
(ii) One of the critical institutional strengthening activities is human resource
development (PIP Annex 3). Despite a workforce of six thousand KFD lacks the
specialized staff required to meet many of today's skill and knowledge needs. The
frequency of transfers and lack of continuity in assignments as well as lack of
specialization, prevent staff from making a strong impact on sector development.
In-service training is infrequent, poorly conducted and rarely needs-based and career
planning and training for succession is seldom undertaken. KFD workforce is an
underutilized asset. The project would address these issues to the extent possible
through three parts: (i) upgrading of HRD approach; (ii) improving the management
of training; and (iii) providing project activities-related training. It would strengthen



30
HRD in the sector by enabling managers and supervisors, through a process
consultancy and a series of workshops, to understand the importance of systematic
HRD and the practice of good human resource management. The creation of a
human resource data base as part of the Forest Management Information System
(FMIS) would provide managers and trainers with a valuable tool for human
resource management and in-service training. The relevance, quality and frequency
of in-service training would be improved and training facilities upgraded.
(iii) The component would increase KFD's technical and management capacity during
the four years of project implementation. This would be achieved mainly through a
large program of training activities related to each project component. Training
would be focused on the needs of staff who would have responsibility for
implementing component activities and tasks. Inputs would be provided to ensure
that the quality of training is improved, for example, through a consultancy to
develop a course objective and syllabus for each training activity topic under the
project, and through enabling staff with responsibility for training to participate in
training management courses overseas.
(iv) The component would fund the cost of refurbishing the KFD office block, civil
works for furnishing a hostel/guest house for resource persons, technical assistance,
vehicles and office/training equipment. A HRD database would be created and
maintained to support staff development. Two short consultancies would be
provided under the component to: (a) assist KFD staff develop objectives and key
training content for all identified training courses; and (b) provide a training needs
assessment which accurately reflects gaps in skills and knowledge at all levels in
KFD.
(b) Introduce Sector Information System (PIP Annex 4). Information is a major
ingredient of current KFD activities. The periodic preparation of Working Plans
(management plans in PA) is expected to provide the data on forest resources needed for
their informed management. Information is required during the formulation of five-year
forestry plans (part of the five-year State plans) and annual implementation plans. KFD
units must also monitor their expenditures and achievements, budgets, establishment and
timelines. Detailed reporting procedures are defined in forestry manuals. They are often
complicated, time-consuming; some even redundant, resulting in wasteful multiple
entries of the same data. KFD has started using computers but these efforts are restricted
to automating existing tasks in a few offices, mostly at headquarters in Trivandrum.
(i) Working Plans and Forest Inventories. The project would bring about major
changes in how KFD manages forest resources. Specifically, it would modify
working plans to include: (a) a strategic management plan at the division level; and
(b) a framework for bottom up site specific planning and implementation, with
greater responsibilities assigned to field level staff. One of the key roles of working
plan units would be to provide reference data for both the strategic and site specific
plans for each division. The data would comprise an up-to-date assessment of forest
resources as well as databases of information collected from the field. The resource
assessments done in the context of the working plans would contribute to the state-
wide forest inventory, with the difference that the resource assessment of a particular
division would be conducted immediately before working plan preparation for that
division to provide the most up-to-date information possible.
(ii) Databases of existing information would be organized according to Forest



31
Management Units (FMUs) which would include data on forest activities and events,
such as plantations, cuts, illegal felling, fires, biodiversity, flooding, etc.
Furthermore, working plan units would conduct extensive field work to incorporate
local knowledge and information of settlements, user rights and usage patterns.
FMU databases would become the common thread linking the various facets of
forest management, and thus provide the cross-cutting perspective required for
multi-objective forest management. Tables describing site-specific plans could then
be linked to the FMU databases, thus facilitating the monitoring and evaluation of
forest management activities.
(iii)Forest Management Information System (FMIS). Effective use of information is
thus critical for sustainable forest management. The component would improve
KFD's information management by developing a FMIS. FMIS would serve to
implement the conclusions of the Sector Management Study and thus to support the
process changes that underlie the project's design, including more efficient use of
human resources and the introduction of innovative programs for participatory
management of forests. FMIS implementation would follow a four-pronged
approach: (a) building up the capacity of KFD staff to use and manage information;
(b) facilitating the flow of information within KFD units; (c) mainstreaming the use
of information technology (IT) in KFD activities, particularly database management
systems, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Internet connectivity; and (d)
increasing the availability of key reference data sets, such as an updated forest
inventory, to users within KFD. The component would also support Kerala Forest
Research Institute (KFRI) and enhance its capabilities in information management
and technology.
(iv) FMIS design and implementation would include streamlining and modifying current
reporting and information management procedures, with an emphasis on linking
strategic planning to budgets, on improving monitoring and evaluation procedures,
and on introducing site specific planning. The system would be modular, with each
module covering related functional responsibilities within KFD. The number and
content of each would be decided following a detailed assessment of KFD
procedures, needs and capacities. The gradual implementation of each module
would involve: (a) design and development, including recasting of reporting
procedures; (b) systematic training of staff in target units (computer literacy, use of
software packages, new reporting procedures and module functionalities); and
(c) review and improvement.
(v) The FMIS would provide computers and training across KFD, targeting most and
middle and higher level management units (division, circles and HQ), and
connecting the majority of these in a network. KFD would first target the
development of modules covering administrative and financial functions, to rapidly
improve the monitoring procedures. The gradual but deliberate large-scale infusion
of technology is expected to address the following concems: (a) job specialization:
because of frequent turnover, staff trained for a specific task are frequently assigned
to other tasks. FMIS would record the turnover of staff trained to use specific
modules that would increase their efficient use; (b) streamlining of existing
procedures: the automation of current information management procedures would
only reinforce existing inefficiencies and redundancies. Thus KFD would review the
procedures specific to each module before its development. The revised procedure
would then be implemented agency wide to avoid inconsistencies; and (c) delegation
of authority: FMIS would become a bottleneck if the authority to manage and



32
update information is not explicitly delegated to operational units.
(vi) Aerial Photography, Remote Sensing, GIS and GPS. Aerial photographs are the
primary source for assessing forests in most countries. The use of aerial
photographs has often been difficult in India because of security considerations. The
project would include the systematic use of aerial photographs as the primary source
of forest inventories which is one of the major challenges confronting KFD. Aerial
photographs would first be geometrically corrected using locational informnation
collected during aerial surveys and then interpreted visually based on an
interpretation key developed through field work. The usage of satellite imagery
would complement aerial photography. GIS would also be provided under the
project to enable KFD integrate all location specific data in FMIS. Global
Positioning Systems (GPS) would allow KFD to attach a precise geographic location
to field activities and observations, and thus through the GIS functionalities of FMIS
to facilitate the use of field data for monitoring and planning of forest management.
(vii) The component would fund consultancies to develop the component. Initially, a
needs assessment would be done to analyze the system design and develop an FMIS
which would have many modules. Consultants with appropriate expertise would be
retained for the design and operationalization of FMIS including the GIS. The
consultant would maintain, revise and modify the modules on the basis of the
requirement. Finally, the consultants would formulate an information ,management
policy. In addition, the component would fund hardware and software equipment,
remote sensing imagery, training and incremental staff.
(c) Support to Project Management. The project would support the Project Cell (PC),
headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF), and comprising of two Conservator of
Forests (CFs) and other key staff to coordinate and administer all project related work.
The PC would be the driving force in encouraging and implementing the institutional
reforms and changes. Project funds would be made available for operating the PC. The
project would support the PC by training staff, and by providing support in monitoring
and evaluation, administration, financial management, procurement and human
resources development. The full professional staffing of the PC would be a condition of
project effectiveness. The PC would operate only during the project period after which it
would be disbanded and staff reassigned to other divisions.
Project Component 2 - Strengthening of Forest Management US$33.9 million (total cost of
component)
(a) Improve Management of Natural Forests (PIP Annex 5). Except for forests in
protected areas (PAs), which would be managed strictly for the purpose of
ecosystem/biodiversity management, the natural forests in Kerala would be managed on
the principle of sustainable forest management, to improve the productivity of forest
trees and NWFPs and to meet the forest-based needs of society while conserving and
improving their biodiversity and catchment protection value. While the emphasis of
management in less disturbed forest areas is on ecosystem management and, as part of
this, on the achievement of full stocking but not, for the time being, on timber
production, the emphasis of management in degraded forest areas is on forest
rehabilitation for the combined purpose of timber and NWFP production, and of
ecosystem protection or restoration.



33
Management of Less Disturbed Natural Forests. Two activities would be supported by
the project in these areas, as follows:
(i) Asisted Natural Regeneration (ANR). In reasonably but unevenly stocked
forests, frequently with insufficient natural regeneration, the project would support
improvement of such forests through management interventions for promoting or
supplementing natural regeneration from seedlings and viable rootstock, or by
sowing of seed or gap planting of native species. Natural regeneration activities
would be carried out in areas which carry more than 600 existing seedlings per
hectare. The selected areas would be surveyed for site characteristics including
status of vegetation and natural regeneration and based on this information site-
specific treatmnent plans and maps would be prepared. The project would provide
funding for regenerating about 23,000 ha of this forest type through necessary
silvicultural operations and site improvement and protection measures to assist the
natural regeneration to get established.
(ii) Restoration of Reeds, Bamboos and Canes (Rattan) (RRB). The unscientific and
excessive exploitation of these resources, particularly in the accessible areas, has
resulted in their serious depletion. The project would support the rehabilitation of
about 4,700 ha of these resources through planting as an understorey in forests and
through cultural operation to improve the health and productivity of existing clumps.
For this special resource, there will be a review of management practices and the
adoption of improved policy and practices with the aim of reviving the sustainable
management of these forest products. The criteria for selection of areas and
treatments proposed are given in detail in PIP Annex 5. Stakeholders involved in
the harvesting or use of these resources would be given a participatory role in the
process.
(iii)Departmental Management of Degraded Natural Forests. Depending on the
definition and the origin of estimates, at least 20% of the forests in the State are
classified as open or heavily degraded, and an aggregate area of equal size or
possibly larger size show a varying degree of degradation. Ideally, much of this land
should be rehabilitated by PFM arrangements particularly in areas where biopressure
has been the main cause of the degradation. However, PFM is only entering into its
pilot phase in Kerala and is not yet in a position to encompass large areas. Two
kinds of broad treatment practices to achieve this would be: (a) partly regeneration
operations and partly seed sowing/dibbling and planting in areas having 300-600
seedlings of local species; and (b) planting preferably with species which yield
timber, fuelwood, fodder, fruit and other NWFP. About 9.000 ha of degraded forests
including degraded plantations would be rehabilitated through treatment practices (a)
and (b).
(iv) Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests (RDF). Combined promotion/augmentation of
natural regeneration and artificial regeneration by sowing and planting (with
treatment practices of RDFI and RDF2) in areas with 300-600 natural seedlings or
viable rootstock per ha at average planting of about 550 plants per ha. Intensive
artificial regeneration at average planting of 1,100 seedlings per ha in areas with less
than 300 seedlings or viable rootstock per ha.
(v) In planting and sowing, preference would be given to native multi-purpose tree
species, especially those yielding NWFPs. Also reeds, bamboo and rattan would be
planted wherever feasible. The natural regeneration would be retained wherever



34
occurring. Preference for departmental rehabilitation would be given to degraded
forest areas at some distance from areas with acute biopressure; the latter would in
the future be candidate areas for the PFM approach.
(b) Introduce Participatory Forest Management (PFIVI) of Degraded Natural Forests
(including Tribal Development, in Localities Away from PAs) (PIP Annex 7). The
management of the degraded natural forests rests on promoting participation by the
concerned local communities to develop among them a sense of stewardship for the
resource. The objective of the PFM component is to: (i) explore the potential for PFM
in different forestry and soci-economic contexts; and (ii) develop appropriate approaches
for PFM suited to Kerala's forestry and socio-economic conditions. KFD will adopt an
experimental and learning process approach to PFM development with emphasis on
innovation, reflection and modifications to approaches based on field experience. The
PFM pilot program would cover approximately 86 settlements (33 forest settlements and
53 fringe settlements, including the six settlements where the pilot has already started
through PPF funding), and would address a multitude of forest management problems
and situations. The emphasis would be on the restoration of the productivity and
environmental functioning of forests near human settlements. The microplans would be
developed jointly by the KFD and concerned VSS to develop site specific plans which
are tailored to the needs of different forest users and designed to address particular
ecological problems and potential of the site. At each site a variety of treatments may be
required, including RDF, ANR, bamboo and reed and other NTFP rehabilitation.
(i) Each microplan would include variety of forestry activities which can broadly be
classified into: (a) General Forest Management and Protection. This would include
watch and ward, protection from fire and unsustainable grazing and protection
against timber smuggling and forest encroachment. In many locations, protection
from fire, illicit felling and unsustainable grazing would be sufficient to encourage
rapid regeneration of natural forest; (b) Sustainable Harvesting Practices for NTFPs.
This would include harvesting practices and rules designed to achieve long-term
sustainability of NTFP production and NTFP-based livelihoods; and (c) Investments
in Forest Improvement and Rehabilitation. This would be mainly planting and soil
and water conservation measures and, depending on the peculiarities of the site, the
investment might range from intensive planting program of timber and NTFPs to
selective weeding of natural regeneration. Besides these activities, microplans may
encompass the broader development needs and goals of the VSS. In tribal
settlements, the project would contribute to planned non-forestry activities designed
to improve livelihoods of forest dependent people.
(ii) The most critical feature for the success of the program is the capacity of KFD staff
and interested local forest user groups. The component would therefore place great
emphasis on on-the-job training, workshops and study tours to learn from the
experience of other states as well as Kerala. Specialist support and research studies
would also be provided to assist the KFD staff in the implementation of the PFM
program.
(c) Improve Management of Industrial Plantations on Reserve Forest Land (PIP
Annex 6). The project would assist KFD's replanting and rehabilitation program for
industrial plantations exclusively with improved planting stock and practices for the
purpose of higher production of industrial wood. The program of planting stock
improvement, likewise supported by the project, would take time to escalate. Therefore,
planting under the project with improved stock would by necessity be limited to an



35
estimated 5,500 ha. Principal species for planting would be teak, Eucalyptus and Acacia
spp. Many plantation sites have become degraded as a result of heavy grazing and fires
and are characterized by soil compaction and loss of soil nutrients. Also flawed
silvicultural practices have contributed to soil degradation. Choice of species suited to a
specific site, improved ground preparation including better soil working and soil
conservation measures accompanied with improved fire protection would be adopted
consistently. Replanting with teak (P1) would encompass an area of 1,800 ha and
pulpwood plantations (P2) 3,700 ha during the project's four planting seasons. The
details about the criteria for site selection and proposed treatments are given in PIP
Annex 6.
Summary of KFD Area Treatments under the Project (hectares):
Treatment      Year        Year        Year      Year    Years
______________ 1          2           3         4        1-4
ANR          2000        5000       8000       8000    23000
RRB          500         1200       1500       1500    4250
RDFI & 2       1000        2667       2667       2667     9000
PFM           150        650        1500       1500     3800
(treated)
PFM          600         2000       4000       2000     8600
(managed)
Pi           100        200         500       1000     1800
P2          250         600        1250       1600    3700
Total        4600        12317      19417      18267    54600
(treated)
(d) Introduce Improved Quality of Planting Stock and Adapted Research (PIP
Annex 5). The project would support these two activities as follows:
(i) Improve Planting Material. The state-wide problem of much lower than possible
plantation growth would be tackled by improving the physical quality of the nursery
stock and the genetic constitution of selected species. The former would be
accomplished rather quickly by phasing in modem nurseries as demonstrated in
other States. The latter requires more time but improvements supported by the
project would be progressively applied through harvesting seed only from selected
cull-stands or individual trees and by cloning outstanding trees. The project would
finance for KFD the installation of six modem nurseries, nursery technology
training, seed stand culling and improvement of seed handling technologies and it
would support the introduction of cloning. A sub-component would support KFDC
in improving nursery technology and introducing eucalyptus clones.
(ii) Applied Research. The KFD research program drawn up by the Research Advisory
Committee covers a wide range of topics, such as tree improvement for both
industrial and homestead species, site preparation, natural forest ecology, marketing
of homestead produce, non-wood products, etc. The emphasis is on adaptive
research because KFD has no specialist research posts and research is managed by
forest officers on rotation. As the many topics have not yet been put into an order of
priority, it is now essential that the program be prioritized; the project would fund an
intemational consultant to assist KFD with this task. Funds would further be



36
provided for contractual research concerning some of the prioritized topics, to be
carried out by suitable Indian institutions.
(e) Support for Homestead Forestry and Associated Activities (PIP Annex 8). GOK's
vision of the forestry sector emphasizes the importance of homestead farms and private
plantations as the main producers of timber in the State. The objective is to encourage
farmers and estate owners to produce more timber on their farms by increasing the
productivity and profitability of timber tree growing on farms. To achieve this, KFD
would liberalize the regulatory environment and introduce better quality planting
material by removing felling and transit restrictions, encouraging private nurseries to
produce higher quality planting material and providing extension and marketing
information services to farmers.
(i) The project would support this component through: (i) a pilot extension program in
six Districts. The program would strengthen the capacity of District staff to provide
effective extension and information services serving the needs of farmers and wood
processing enterprises. The project would pilot an extension program led by female
extension workers to target women farmers; (ii) a plan for aforestry interpretation
center at Kalady Forestry Study Center (KFSC) to provide educational facilities for
the KFD and partner NGOs to teach school children and the general public about
forestry. As this is a pilot initiative, the plan and prograrn would be reviewed during
the project mid-term review; (iii) new program of Primary Environmental care to
develop a comprehensive plan to improve environmental conditions in an urban
neighborhood. This would be a pilot activity and KFD would facilitate planning
efforts and provide seed money to initiate planned activities. The program would be
started in three major cities of Kerala and would be developed by existing staff
working at District Offices in each location; and (iv) a new program to support
public institution tree management. Under this pilot program, a new Government
Order (GO) with an attached model of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
would be prepared to ensure that the institutions on public lands in tree planting
programs are responsible for maintenance and development of the plantations.
(ii) The project would support technical assistance to study the economic incentives and
disincentives of timber production in homestead farms, develop a District extension
strategy and extension training courses. The component would also emphasize
human resource development by providing training courses on improving the
extension, communication and economic analysis as well as workshops for KFD
staff, private nursery operators and Panchayats.
(f) Introduce an Improved Fire Management System (PIP Annex 9). Frequent forest
ground fires are one of the major causes of forest degradation and the destruction of
natural and artificial regeneration. The project would support KFD in the fire
management program in five divisions selected on a priority basis and would include:
(i) state-level strategic fire management activities; (ii) public awareness campaign using
mass media; (iii) local people's involvement; (iv) preparation of divisional fire
management plans satisfactory to IDA; (v) training of staff; (vi) procurement of fire
fighting equipment, vehicles and amenities for field staff; (vii) developing a database
and monitoring & evaluation system; and (viii) improved communication facilities. The
component would be a pilot operation to develop and test the fire protection strategy and
fire management plans before wider application.



37
Project Component 3 - Strengthening of Biodiversity Conservation US$ 5.3 million (total
cost of component)
(a) The project would address the constraints to biodiversity conservation (PIP Annex 10)
through development and implementation of a comprehensive and integrated program.
While the major emphasis of the conservation effort would be focused on support for the
PAs, the project would also finance some activities for improving conservation and
enhancing ecological viability in special habitats outside the PA network. Under this
component, the project would support the following four activities to be primarily
implemented by KFD:
(i) Establish a State-wide Strategic Approach for Conservation. A program would
be supported to strengthen the capacity and increase opportunities for planning and
management of the totality of habitats and ecosystems within the State. Provisions
would be included for: (i) planning for biodiversity conservation at a landscape
level, that incorporates conventional PAs and areas outside of them. Since this is a
new approach to planning in Kerala, the project would support the preparation of
only four such plans during the life of the project; (ii) conservation review for
rationalization of the state-wide PA network; and (iii) design and implementation of
pilot programs for integrated management of wetlands and other special habitats.
(ii) Improve Scientific Knowledge, Understanding and Public Support for
Conservation. The project would finance the development of a more effective and
extensive support for biodiversity conservation through the following activities:
(i) impact monitoring and research to improve the understanding of issues and
solutions relevant to the conservation of biodiversity, PA management and PA
people interface concerns; (ii) environmental education and interpretation programs
to build public support for biodiversity and PA conservation; (iii) training and
capacity building for improved biodiversity conservation; and (iv) building support
for conservation through implementation of ecotourism, sustainable utilization of
medicinal plant resources, and protection of sacred groves.
(iii)Strengthen Sustainability of the State-wide PA Systen. Project support would be
provided for: (i) improving capacity for planning and management of PAs; (ii)
implementation of cost-effective technologies and approaches for improving
management of ecosystems and habitats within and outside PAs; and (iii) upgrading
of infrastructure and communication facilities for PA staff.
(iv) Expand Village Ecodevelopment (VED) in PA Neighbor Areas. In an effort to
strengthen ongoing action in the State to address people-PA interface issues, the
project would support the establishment of participatory management approaches
and provide implementation support to foster alternative livelihoods and resource
uses to currently unsustainable use of such resources. The project would finance a
pilot program of up to about 40 villages located in and around two of the PAs
(Chinnar and Neyyar). The implementation of the pilot program would provide the
opportunity for testing and experimentation, and for training staff for the potential
future expansion of this program throughout the State. The implementation of the
VED program would be on lines of the ongoing Bank/GEF supported Eco-
development Program. The project support would be provided specifically for
sustainable management of forests and for the development of alternative resource
and income generation opportunities.



38
Project Implementation Arrangements
Project Leadership, Including Project Committees (PIP Annex 11). KFD would be
the main implementing agency for the project under the overall leadership of the PCCF who
reports to the PS-F&WLD. A Project Steering and Finance Committee, chaired by the Chief
Secretary, and under the vice chairmanship of the PS-F&WLD, has already been established for
overall policy guidance to project management during implementation and for safeguarding
availability and flow of funds to the project A Project Coordination Committee under the
chairmanship of the PS-F&WLD has also been established for directing and overseeing
implementation and for major financial and personnel decisions. Its convener is the
Director/CCF of the PC. Despite the fact that this committee would meet quarterly plus more
often when required, there is a danger that it could become a bottleneck for the continuous
stream of financial decisions concerning procurement unless further delegation of this decision
power is made. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that for procurement items or
contracts (including consultancies) up to a limit of Rs. 10 lakhs (US$ 30,000) per case, the
financial decision power be delegated to the CCF, PC, subject to post-approval by the Project
Coordination Committee. The CCF, PC, in turn, would act upon the recommendations of the
four departmental Technical Sub-Committees, i.e HRD, Forest Development, Wildlife &
Biodiversity and PFM Sub-Committees which have been established. To safeguard the
continuous and smooth working of all six committees at all times, each committee has appointed,
in addition to its high-ranking convener (a full Committee Member), a competent Working
Secretary (a non-member).
Project Cell (PC). The PC, already established and satisfactorily structured, does not
have an implementing role but acts as a project facilitation office. It is headed by a CCF on a
full-time basis who reports to the PCCF and is assisted by two CFs and 4 ACFs; each has distinct
functional responsibilities. There is also a small contingent of support staff in the PC. The PC
would be responsible for coordination of all project-funded activities in accordance with the
time-bound action plan. Consistent with this principle, the project is designed so that the project
activities are fully integrated into the normal line organization and operations of KFD, and that
PC does not become a parallel implementing structure. However, for certain innovative
processes and actions, such as activities aiming at institutional and policy changes, the Project
Director in the PC would be the driving force and a qualified officer has been attached to the
Project Cell to champion and monitor the policy and institutional change process. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the full professional staffing of PC would be a condition
of project effectiveness. The PC is a temporary management structure for the duration of the
project only.
Project Components:
Strengthening Sector Management
Policy Reform, Institutional and Human Resource Development. Some of the critical
policy reforms from the angle of the proposed project's objectives and logic of design would be
undertaken by GOK up-front as early conditionalities. However, the majority of the reforms
listed in the policy matrix (Annex 1A) would be implemented by GOK, KFD, and KFDC as a
process which is expected to have led to substantive and tangible progress/results by the 4th
project year when a decision on a follow-on project would be made. (Some of the reform items
may even require time beyond this project to be brought to closure). Progress would be
monitored against specific indicators in Annex 1. The persons responsible for the



39
implementation of the reforms would, at the highest level, be the Chief Executives of the
agencies concerned and the Forest Secretary. In practice, heavy responsibility for keeping the
process going and on track would fall on the Director of the PC. The Director is assisted by an
officer with wide experience in the field with this task. The consultancy to assist KFD and
KFDC in the analysis and institutional improvement of their organizations would play a central
role in the reform process. It would be completed in the 2nd project year and define
implementation responsibilities and time frame for recommended reform actions.
The CF (Training), closely supported by the CF (Project Administration) and his HRD
staff in the Project Cell, would have primary responsibility for implementing the HRD program
under the project. The latter would coordinate the development of the annual training plan,
involving virtually all managers of employing entities (who are responsible for managing and
training the human resources in their units), and play the lead role in the management of various
important consultancies supporting this process. These consultancies would provide a new HRD
approach for KFD and assist with creating steering mechanisms for the program of project
activity-related training, the massive size of which and resulting demands on those responsible
are easily under-estimated. The CF (Training) would also be responsible for infrastructural
improvements in the KFD training facilities. The CF would hire services of a consultancy to
help organize and manage the training program for the project as a whole.
Sector Information Management System KFD would design, develop and implement
the FMIS according to agreed guidelines. The physical infrastructure would consist of two
interlinked hubs in Trivandrum, plus 6 additional hubs in the field. Each hub would gradually be
built up into a LAN with a server. Other field offices would link to these hubs through phone
lines. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that KFD would have a full time dedicated
FMIS Manager during the project period to supervise FMIS design, development and
implementation. Hub managers would provide support to field hubs. The FMIS Manager would
be a professional qualified in systems management and database development. KFD would
appoint consultants: (a) to conduct a detailed assessment of information management needs, and
(b) to design, develop implement the system modules, including training of staff in target units.
All middle and higher level staff, as well as a large number of support staff across KFD, would
receive basic computer literacy training to trigger a cultural shift in how computers are perceived
and used. Training in the use of new information management procedures and modules would
target all staff involved in their use. Training in specialized software packages such as database
management systems (DBMS) or GIS would only target staff designated to use them on a regular
basis. Three KFD staff would undergo long-term training in information system management;
four would undergo training in GIS and photo-interpretation for the production of the Kerala
forest inventory. Although FMIS would be managed from the PC during the project period,
ultimately this function would shift to an appropriate unit within KFD.
Strengthening Forest Management
Management of Less Disturbed Natural Forests Outside PAs and Departmental
Management of Degraded Natural Forests Away from PAs. These two large sub-components
would be carried out by the Territorial Wing of KFD based on site-specific plans. These would
be prepared several months ahead of the planting season in accordance with criteria and quality
standards agreed with the Bank. Labor rates would be applied for the various field operations,
based on the prevailing market wage rates.
Participatory Forest Management of Degraded Natural Forests. A senior KFD officer
would coordinate the PFM program. He would be assisted by a full time consultant in program



40
coordination, overseeing training, microplan development and program review as well as
facilitating the regular review Workshops in the Circles and at State level. The program would
begin immediately building from the work of the consultant Mitraniketan in six settlements. A
Working Group would assist the coordinator in the oversight of the program and would review
the GO and guidelines in years 2 and 4 of the program. The territorial CFs would be responsible
for the development of the program in their respective regions and would select the Divisions for
PFM participation. The DFOs would be responsible for annual lprogram planning and budgeting
and ensuring that funds flow effectively to the VSSs for PFM implementation. KFD with the
support of IDA would finance up to 85% of the forestry activities of the microplan planned for
the first five years and the villagers would contribute the balance. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the PFM coordinator would be designated before project effectiveness.
A VSS Core Fund (VSSCF) would be established under the subcomponent to ensure
sustainability of the PFM program. The fund would consist of the payment for the forest
protection (50%) and benefits from the forest (25%). Besides the core fund, a VSS Operations
Fund (VSSOF) would be established which would consist of: (i) KFD contribution to protection
costs; (ii) the costs of investments in planting and soil and water conservation measures;
(iii) VSS' share of benefits according to agreement; and (iv) initial credibility fund. The VSSCF
would be used to meet the costs of planting and other microplan investments and any other forest
management, costs and for distributing the benefits to individual members as agreed and set
down in rules.
Management of Industrial Plantations on Reserve Forest Land. This sub-component
would be implemented by the Territorial Wing of KFD based on site-specific plans and at market
wage rate. Each site would be prepared based on the details given in PIP Annex 6, and
approved by the concerned DFO or CF before implementation.
Introduction of Improved Quality of Planting Stock, and Adapted Forestry Research.
The Research Wing of KFD would be responsible for implementing the planting stock
improvement activities of this agency. KFDC would designate permanent senior corporation
staff for their improvement program under the project. Both agencies would recruit consultants
to assist them with nursery installation and training. The research component would be
implemented by the KFD Research Wing following a consultancy for the prioritization of
proposed research topics. Most of the program funded under the project would be contracted
research with in-house monitoring by the research staff. Experienced researchers from KFRI and
ICFR should assist in monitoring the overall program. KFD must find some way of attracting
officers into research over longer periods than usual to attain an acceptable level of continuity.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a coordinator in KFDC and a Silviculture
Research Officer would be designated before project effectiveness.
Homestead Forestry Support and Associated Activities. The district forestry extension
and primary environmental care-urban forestry program would be coordinated by the CCF
(Social Forestry) and implemented by the existing Social Forestry District Offices with the
partnership of local NGOs, farmers and Panchayats. The interpretation center at Kalady (known
as Study Center) would be implemented through a DFO, 6 Range Officers and Foresters and
Forest Guards. KFD would also identify interested environmental NGOs who would work as
partners in developing the Study Center. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
coordinator for the homestead and associated activities would be designated before project
effectiveness.



41
Fire Management. Project support would be conditional on the preparation of
divisional fire management plans acceptable to IDA. The model fire management plans have
been prepared for three divisions. These plans would be reviewed during the mid-term review
and based on the recommendation, the plans would be replicated in other divisions. A KFD head
office-based fire control unit that would also be the nodal agency to formulate strategy and M&E
protocols. The plans would be approved by the CFs and implemented by DFOs. In PFM areas,
VSS would be involved in the planning and implementation process. KFD would aim to enter
into arrangements with the local communities for ensuring prevention of forest fires.
Strengthening Biodiversity Conservation
DepartmentalActivities for Biodiversity Management. Overall responsibility for the
implementation of the conservation of biodiversity component and the VED pilot component
would rest with the CCF (Wildlife) who would carry out the program through the respective
regional wildlife circles, each headed by a CF (Wildlife). A Biodiversity Cell established under
the CCF (Wildlife) would coordinate and manage the research programs. The Wildlife Wardens
and DFOs would implement PA management awareness activities in the PAs. Activities aimed
at improving biodiversity conservation in non-PA areas would be coordinated by the CCF
(Wildlife), but implemented through the respective territorial DFOs. The research program
under this component would be coordinated by an umbrella institution as a consultancy contract,
but research activities would be directed to management needs and effectively managed to
ensure feedback of results to field staff. A number of consultancies concerning vital overall
topics of biodiversity conservation would be contracted by the PC, but the contracts themselves
managed by the CCF (Wildlife). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
coordinator for the Biodiversity Cell would be designated before project effectiveness.
Village Ecodevelopment (VED) in PA NeighborAreas. The pilot VED program would
be implemented jointly between the VED Committees and PA staff and funds for
implementation of activities would flow directly to the committees along lines as in the ongoing,
Bank-supported Ecodevelopment Project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
VED coordinator would be designated before project effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation would rest with the Director, Project Cell,
who would be assisted by an officer in charge of monitoring and evaluation. This function
would be accomplished through computerized project and data management tools that would be
introduced under FMIS. The project objectives would be regularly monitored against the
performance indicators.






43
Annex 3
Kerala Forestry Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                    Local     Foreign  Total
Strengthen Sector Management                            5.9       0.3      62
Strengthen Policy Reform, Institutional and Human   0.6       0.0       0.6
Resource Development
Introduce Forest Management Info. System            3.3       0.2       3.5
Support Project Management                          2.0       0.1      2.1
Strengthen Forest Management                           26.4       5.2     31.5
Improve Management of Natural Forests              14.2       3.5      17.7
Introduce Participatory Forest Management           2.5       0.2       2.7
Improve Management of Industrial Plantations        3.2       0.8       4.0
Introduce Improved Quality of Planting Stock and
Adapted Research                                    3.5       0.5       4.0
Strengthen Support for Homestead Forestry &
Associated                                          1.1       0.1       1.2
Introduce Improved Fire Management System           1.9       0.1       2.0
Strengthen Biodiversity Conservation                    4.5       0.3      4.8
Establish State-wide Strategic Approach             0.4       0.0       0.4
Improve Scientific Knowledge and Public Support     1.3       0.1       1.4
Strengthen Sustainability of PA System              2.1       0.1      2.2
Expand Eco-development System                       0.7       0.1       0.8
PPF Reimbursement                                       1.0       0.0      1.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                   37.7       5.8     43.5
Physical Contingencies                              1.1       0.1       1.2
Price Contingencies                                 2.0       0.3       2.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     40.8       6.2     47.0






45
Annex 4
Kerala Forestry Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows
Sub-component                            Rs. million, 1997
NFM
Benefits                                                  431
Costs                                                     538
Net Benefits                                              -107
ERR (65 years)                                            10%
Environmental benefits
required to achieve 12% ERR                   Rs 500 per year per ha
PFM
Benefits                                                   57
Costs                                                      52
Net Benefits                                               4
ERR (65 years)                                            13%
Plantations: Teak
Benefits                                                   52
Costs                                                      19
Net Benefits                                               34
ERR (65 years)                                            20%
Plantations: Pulpwood
Costs                                                     162
Benefits                                                   54
Net Benefits                                               108
ERR (65 years)                                            38%
Main Assumptions:  The underlying assumptions employed in the analysis are:
Prices.              All values have been expressed in constant 1997 prices. All traded commodities
were valued at import parity prices and non-traded goods are based on domestic
financial prices. Non-traded outputs and inputs were expressed in border rupees
through application of the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 for India to
the financial prices. The exceptions are the prices for fertilizer and wages. For
fertilizer, which is produced domestically, a conversion factor of 1.33 was used,
to reflect the current level of subsidies. For labor, a 20% discount was included
to reflect the level of underemployment of the unskilled labor used for forestry
work. Detailed assumptions on inputs and yields of forest products are built into
each model and are presented in the PIP.
Project Life.        A project life of 65 years was assumed for the analysis. This is longer than
usual, but reflects a full teak rotation.
Investment Costs.    After removing price contingencies, taxes, and duties, all investment costs have
been included in the analysis.



46
Switching values.
* Environmental benefits of Rs 500 per ha per year are required to attain a
12% ERR for NFM sub-component
* SWR of 85% of market wage rate
*  Allocation of sector development costs to economic activities at 50%
(base  10%)
* Any lower specification of 'without-project' outputs reduces the ERR;
changes in 'with-project' outputs in NFM has little effect
*  Any lower specification of yields in industrial plantations



47
Annex 4A
Kerala Forestry Project
Economic and Financial Aspects
A.    Introduction
1.    The proposed project is the initial four-year phase of an expected long-term program that would
assist GOK to reposition the Kerala Forestry Department (KFD) in line with the new Forest Policy and
strategy. The proposed project would put in place a process that would generate efficiency gains by
developing KFD's capacity to implement the new strategy, through institutional and policy changes, staff
development and increased accountability both to government and to users. The project supports the
introduction of new institutional arrangements and policy changes to provide a consistent framework and
environment for the development and piloting of new forest management approaches and systems.
These include the introduction of client-focused and participatory approaches and the development of
new planning and monitoring systems for forest management. The policy actions and institutional
strengthening activities will result in benefits throughout the sector and are not confined to supporting
project investments alone. These benefits will extend well beyond the four-year project period. Finally,
the project supports a program of investments in forest resource conservation and management that
would be implemented using the new planning approaches and processes. These include substantial
investments in biodiversity conservation as well as in forest resource creation, using new technology, for
both natural forest and plantation areas and in fire protection. Funds are also provided to support pilot
programs for participatory forest management and homestead forestry.
2.    Sector management: The main focus of the project is on improved forest sector management
where benefits are wide-ranging and difficult to quantify. The project through strengthening the sector
and improving policy framework would enable better policy formulation and decision-making on the
sector issues. Currently, management and investment decisions in the forest sector are affected by a
number of price and institutional arrangements that distort the signals and information decision-makers
receive. There are two main distortions:
(a) direct subsidies to specific users. These include: (a) the pulpwood (eucalyptus,
bamboo and reeds) subsidy to two companies - Grasim and HNL (the value of the subsidy
was approximately Rs. 175 million - approximately US$5.0 million - in 1997/98 values)
which acts as a disincentive to raise productivity from these plantations; (b) the bamboo
subsidy to KSBC (the value of subsidy was Rs 19 million -approximately US$0.5 million-
in 1997/98) which maintains an uneconomic industry and diverts bamboo from alternative,
higher value uses, thus acting as a disincentive to conservation and PFM; and (c) quota
system for small matchwood factories (about 75% of auction prices). The above subsidy
estimates have been calculated conservatively and may be higher than the said amounts.
(b) indirect controls affecting prices. These include (a) felling and transit rules which act
as a disincentive to tree planting on private land; (b) NWFP price controls, and; (c) auction
procedures and floor prices. These usually favor specific consumers at the cost of suppliers
and potential suppliers. The project would address these distortions and price controls
during the project period and put in place a program to mitigate against any negative impact
arising from their removal.



48
3.     Biodiversity conservation: The biodiversity and conservation benefits would apply, in
particular, to this component. The project would contribute to the conservation of the Western Ghats
ecosystem, with its large number and range of species, the loss of which would be irreversible. Further,
the areas covered under this component form part of a larger watershed important for the whole of
Southern India and, therefore, securing the cover in these areas helps to ensure and regulate water flow.
Economic benefits have not been assigned, although the potential economic value of many species for
medicinal and other purposes is undoubted. Many of the environmental benefits found in the natural
forest sub-component, although not increased by this component are better managed, protected and,
therefore, secured as result of this component. The component accounts for 12% of total project costs.
4.     Forest and conservation management: The project would increase the production of both
wood and NWFPs that benefit local communities and the poor rural artisans. The project would also
benefit forest-dependent people by increasing the influence and control they have over the assets on
which they depend for their livelihoods. Support is provided to homestead forestry. Yields on existing
industrial plantations would be significantly raised from the current low base.
B.    Economic Analysis
5.    Introduction. The direct and quantifiable economic costs and benefits of the project are mainly
due to investments in the management and development of forests for: (a) the natural forest regeneration
and management; (b) participatory forest management (PFM); and (c) industrial plantations. The overall
economic analysis, therefore, excludes the entire biodiversity and conservation component and those
sub-components of the forest management component, such as adaptive research, fire protection and
homestead forestry, for which it was not possible to quantify the benefits. Nonetheless, in each case,
benefits are expected to cover at least their share of costs. The costs of the sector development
component have been apportioned between the biodiversity and forest management components
according to their proportion of total costs. The proportion attributed to forest management, which
represents an 'overhead' of 30% of costs, has been scaled down to 1/3 since the policy and institutional
changes will apply throughout the sector and not only to project funded activities. Therefore, an
overhead of 10% of activity costs for each sub-component has been added to cover the sector
development component. As a result, the economic analysis, below, applies to 65% of total project
costs. The analysis assumes a planning horizon of 65 years. This is longer than usual, but reflects a full
teak rotation. On other sub-components with shorter rotations, it has been assumed that the forest is
managed on a sustainable basis and, therefore, additional rotations have been included to cover the full
period.
6.     Project Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The overall economic returns to the remaining,
economic, sub-components were estimated to be 12%. This is just above the Opportunity Cost of Capital
(OCC) for projects in India, with a positive NPV (12%, 65 years) of Rs 40 million. Although the
economic returns are only marginally above the test rate, no consideration has been made for:
(a) conservation/environmental benefits; or (b) policy benefits affecting non- project investments. These
externalities are reviewed after detailed analysis of each of the sub-components.



49
Summary of economic costs and benefits for forest management component
Costs               Benefits                 NPV          ERR
Rs. million            PV             PV (12%, 65 years)          (12%, 65    (65 years)
(12%,                                        years)        %
65 years)                                    Rs million
With      Without  Incremental
project    Project   benefits
NFM                    538       1,130      699        431          -107         10%
PFM                     52        137        81         57            4          13 %
Industrial plantations
Teak                    19         77        25         52           34          20 %
Pulpwood                54        202        40        162           108         38 %
Overall project        663      1,546       845        702           39          12%
7.    (a) Natural Forest Management: The economic returns to this sub-component are 10%, well
below the 12% OCC for projects in India. However, this excludes the large externalities related to the
environmental benefits, discussed below. The economic returns are based on a set of models with
projections of production representing 'with' and 'without' the project scenarios. (See Working Paper
on Details of Economic and Financial Analysis). The ANR model assumes a 33% increase in regular
off-take, but with no increase in the final standing volume. The RDF models relate to degraded land,
which, with the project, will be rehabilitated. Incremental yields depend on the 'without project'
assumptions. In the most degraded situation, 'without project' yields are assumed to be mostly fuelwood
and a few poles, while in less disturbed areas, the yields are assumed to be 50% of the 'with project'
yields. Bamboo yields, with regular working as proposed under the project, are assumed to increase
substantially from 2 tons currently to 13 tons per ha. For all the models, assumptions about grass/grazing
and NWFP production have been made, based on the different levels of protection 'with' and 'without'
the project. Although estimates of NWFP production are approximate and rough, the assumed expected
changes in off-take are likely to be more realistic.
8.    (b) Participatory Forestry Management: The economic returns to the PFM sub-component
was estimated to be 13 %. This should be considered as a lower bound, since the institutional
arrangements surrounding PFM are likely to result in better selection of sites and activities and more
effective protection of growing stock. Further, it should be remembered that this sub-component is
experimental and relatively small. As for other sub-components, no allowance has been made for
environmental benefits. The estimate was derived from a model of a 100 ha micro-plan representing
projected costs and benefits, based on the similar productivity estimates as were used for similar KFD
managed investments. (See Working Paper on Details of Economic and Financial Analysis). 'Without
project' productivity was assumed to lie in the middle of the estimates used for KFD managed models in
order to reflect the wide range of level of degradation, from high to moderate, likely to be found in the
project.
9.    (c) Industrial plantations: The economic returns to the project investment are particularly high
at 20 % for teak and 38 % for pulpwood. This represents the returns to the incremental costs of the new
technology and management practices introduced by the project and clearly demonstrate the value of the
activities proposed under the project. The without project assumption is that KFD would continue to
fund industrial plantations but using existing technology and under current funding arrangements.



50
10.   Although new technology may be desirable, the issue of whether industrial plantations are
economically desirable also requires analysis. From this perspective, the total investment in industrial
plantations was also analyzed and, although lower at 15% for teak and 20% for pulpwood, the returns
were still found positive. This demonstrates that industrial plantations should be maintained as an
economically sound proposition. However, to secure these returns, the plantations need to be managed
on a sound financial footing as well as on a biologically sustainable basis and the hence the importance
of improved practices and assured funds. Given the totally commercial nature of these plantations, the
financial arrangements, discussed below, are critical to securing economic returns.
11.   The assumptions used for this analysis are set out in the Working Paper on Details of Economic
and Financial Analysis. In the teak plantations, intermediate production is expected to increase four-fold
and final production to be doubled as result of project interventions. Current eucalyptus yields are very
low and the rotation has been extended. The first rotation is cut on average in the eight year, yielding
30m3 of pulpwood, compared to a projected yield of at least 90 m3 in the seventh year under the project.
Current yields in subsequent coppices are even poorer, with the second coppice generally being cut only
in eighteenth year (20 m3) and the third in thirtieth year (5 m3).
Teak                      Pulpwood
NPV          ERR            NPV            ERR
(12%, 65     (65 years)  (12%, 65 years)  (65 years)
years)                    Rs million
Rs million
New technology        34           20 %            108          38 %
Total                 20           15 %            78           23 %
investment
12.   (d) Homestead forestry: This is an experimental component, costing less than 3% of the total
project costs, which involves some support to both urban forestry and community forestry as well as the
setting up of extension and information centers. The centers would provide extension advice and market
information as well as providing access to quality genetic material. The level of uptake is difficult to
estimate and depends on the perceived financial returns to each farmer. A study of the economics of
homestead forestry is proposed and would be undertaken after the enabling policy changes have been
implemented and prior to Phase II. In the meantime, a very rough estimate of the scale of operation
required to cover costs has been done. The sub-component is based around 6 district centers, with costs,
including capital outlays and training over 6 years of about Rs 36 million or Rs 1 million per year per
center. Assuming returns, similar to KFD managed pulpwood plantations of NPV (12%,30 years) of
Rs 30,000 per ha, approximately 33 ha of land would be required to cover costs. Assuming 0.50 ha per
farmer, the break-even number of participants would be about 60. T:his figure should be easily exceeded
by the project.
13.   (e) Fire protection: This sub-component, costing less than 2% of total project costs, covers the
preparation of a strategy and plans for areas not covered by other project activities. It has not been
subjected to detailed economic analysis.
14.   (f) Environmental benefits: Despite the conservation objective of the natural forest
management sub-component, the investment in regeneration creates economic as well as conservation



51
values. The economic value of the investment depends on assumptions about future management.
Current policy can be interpreted in one of two ways. Firstly, as a static conservation policy in which the
trees are not harvested, die beyond their economic age, and are replaced in due course by nature. The
economic value of this interpretation of policy is represented by the opportunity costs associated with
foregoing the revenue. This is measured by the loss of value between a green tree at optimum harvest
age and a dead tree at some future date, together with the loss of interest due to the delay in harvesting.
Secondly, as a dynamic, conservation policy in which the sustainability of the forest allows harvesting
and encourages gaps and light to accelerate the growth of younger stock. Under this interpretation, the
present green feeling ban represents a phase, during which stock is rebuilt following a period of over
exploitation and, in due course, when the right conditions are in place, the ban will be lifted. The value
of the investments under this assumption reflects their value in use. The approach taken here reflects the
second, and more traditional, interpretation that the green feeling ban will eventually be lifted.
15.   Although the overall economic returns to forest investments show an economic return ofjust
over 12%, as a result of the returns to industrial plantations, the returns to NFM, which accounts for the
bulk of project costs is only 10%. However, this understates the returns since there are considerable
environmental benefits that have not been included in the calculations. The Western Ghats is a
particularly important source of many environmental and biodiversity benefits. Apart from the usual
benefits associated with forestry investments, important rivers originate in the Ghats and on which
Kerala's farmers are dependent. These environmental benefits include:
(a) Water Flows into Rivers. Water flow into rivers, although perhaps reduced in total quantity,
is better regulated as result of the presence of trees, rather than grassland, in the catchment since
water is released more slowly into the flow. This reduces the risks of extreme flooding and
extents the flow season with considerable downstream economic benefits for agriculture
particularly in the case of Kerala were agriculture is dependent on the Western Ghats watershed.
(b) Soil erosion. The benefits associated with saving the costs of de-silting have to be offset
against the gains in production from the annual replenishment of top soils.
(c) Meso-climate. The existence of contiguous forest (at least 10km deep) is thought to have an
impact on the climate in the immediate area (perhaps up to 100 km away) in terms of reducing
maximum temperatures. This is beneficial to crop growth where there is danger of crop damage
due to extreme temperatures.
(d) CO2 absorption. This is greatest in young fast growing trees. Ultimately, net benefits
depend on the use to which the harvested wood is put - fuelwood merely releasing the CO2 back
into the atmosphere, while wood used for house construction and furniture acts as a carbon sink.
All these benefits are highly positive in the case of Kerala, with the possible exception of soil erosion
where gains and losses may offset each other.
16.   The break-even, or minimum, level of additional environmental benefits required to attain a 12%
ERR for the NFM sub-component of the project was estimated to be Rs 500 (US$15) per ha per year into
perpetuity, assuming that the onset of environmental benefits lags behind planting by 5 years. There is
little quantification of environmental benefits against which to compare this figure, although it is
comparable with break-even levels for World Bank funded forestry projects in other states. Estimates of
the value of forests, world-wide, as a carbon sink range from US$ 1 to US$ 20, with a median of US$ 5.
(See Guidelines for Climate Change Global Overlays, ESD, The World Bank, February 1997). This still
excludes the more locally important values associated with water flows and meso-climate. In forestry
and economic terms, the break-even level represents about 15% of the annualized value of potential



52
income flows for relatively undegraded forest in Kerala. At this level, the environmental benefits from
the project are likely to be understated.
C.    Sensitivity Analysis
17.   The overall returns are so close to the test rate that any addition to base costs or shortfall in
benefits brings the returns below 12%.
ERR (65 years)              Costs
Benefits        Base    +25 %        +50%
Base            12%       10%         9 %
75% of base     10%       8 %         7 %
50 % of base     7 %      6 %         5%
18.   However, this excludes the benefits due to environmental externalities which, it was argued
earlier, were the main source of project benefits. Using the methodology used earlier, the break-even
level of environmental benefits required to achieve a 12% ERR for the project was estimated for
different levels of production benefits. At 75% of assumed economic benefits, additional environmental
benefits of Rs 800 per ha per year are required to achieve a 12% ERR. This is equivalent to about 25%
of the annualized value of economic benefits from relatively undegraded forest (Rs 3,000 per ha per
year). Expected environmental benefits are likely to still exceed this break-even value. However, it
should be noted that, generally speaking, environmental benefits are positively correlated with economic
benefits and, therefore, that environmental benefits will decline if production benefits fall. (The purpose
of the calculation is to show the relative size of environmental benefits required to cover economic costs
and not to suggest that there is a trade-off between economic and environmental benefits!)
Break-even level of environmental benefits required to achieve a 12% ERR
Production      Annualized value of     Production And
Benefits       environmental flows    Environmental Benefits
(ERR%)            (Rsthalyear)            (ERR%)
Base                   12%                   -5                    12%
75% of base             10%                 800                    12 %
50 % of base            7 %                 1,600                  12%
19.   The overall returns are not particularly sensitive to changes in output prices because of the delay
in realizing benefits in forestry projects. However, the returns are sensitive to changes in the shadow
wage rate (SWR). The switching value for the SWR is 85% of the market rate, compared to the base
assumption of 80%. A lower SWR of 60% of market wage rates raises the ERR to 14%. The main
influences over the returns in forestry investment usually relate to the 'without-project' assumptions
these provide early cash-flows, while project outputs tend to provide later cash-flows. If the 'without
project' assumption, was understated by 25% the ERR would fall to 10%, while if it was overstated by
25%, the ERR would rise to 14%.



53
20.   One of the main risks associated with the project is that the policy and institutional changes will
fail to achieve the intended results. This might be due to a failure to implement the proposals fully, but,
more likely, to be due to currently unidentified policy and institutional issues which will become clearer
during implementation. This would mean that all the overhead costs should be attributed to project
activities. This reduces the ERR to 11% (NPV (12%, 65 years) of (-107 Rs million). The estimated
switching value is that up to 50% of overheads can be attributed to project activities and still maintain a
12% ERR.
21.   Another important risk relates to the yields on the industrial plantations. These are currently
very low. Overall returns would fall to 11% (NPV(12%,65 years) of Rs -122 million) if pulpwood yields
did not rise as a result of the proposed project investments and changes in funding arrangements. If,
further, teak yields do not respond to project investments, the ERR would fall to 10% (NPV(12%, 65
years) of Rs -174 million). The overall retums are therefore relatively sensitive to the risks associated
with the plantation yields. Yield increases in NFM are more conservatively estimated since they are less
dependent on new technology. However, because of the large areas covered under this sub-component, a
failure to increase timber yields at all would reduce the ERR to 6% (NPV(12%, 65 years) of Rs -391
million).
D. Financial Analysis
22.   Financial analysis was carried out for two of the sub-components: (a) participatory forest
management, and (b) industrial plantations. In the case of the PFM sub-component, the critical factor is
whether the program will be sufficiently attractive to local communities under the proposed benefit- and
cost-sharing arrangements. In the case of the industrial plantations, which operate as revenue-earning
ventures by the state, the critical issue is whether these are a good use of public resources.
23.    (a) Participatory Forest Management: The main issue in the financial analysis is whether
there are sufficient net benefits to act as an incentive for a VSS to participate in an effective and
sustainable manner. The economic model of a 100 ha micro-plan was adjusted using financial prices and
then used to analyze the separate returns to the VSS and KFD. Both the cost-sharing and benefit-sharing
arrangements set out in project and in the Government Order were incorporated into the model.
According to the Government Order, the VSS would receive 25% of the value of timber and poles
harvested under the micro-plan. For bamboo and other NWFPs, 100% of the harvest goes to the VSS.
Although the overall financial returns to the micro-plan are relatively low (FRR of 15%), the returns to
the VSS are considerably higher (FRR of 29%), suggesting that there should be an incentive for the
community to participate. As a result of the funding arrangements (See Annex xx) the cashflows to the
VSS are positive throughout. Further, the cost-sharing arrangements should result in better selection of
sites and reduced costs per ha since only expenditure with a clear local benefit will be undertaken. This,
in turn, should ensure that actual returns are higher than those derived from the model. The overall
financial returns to the KFD are considerably lower at only 4%. However, KFD's interest is more on the
conservation and economic benefits rather than in revenue generation and, with more effective
protection, the risks to the KFD's investments are considerably reduced.



54
Returns to 100 ha model of 'typical' micro-plan
NPV                  FRR
(12%, 65 years)        (65 years)
KFD        - 8,315            4 %
VSS        14,490             29 %
Overall    6,175              15 %
24     (b) Industrial plantations: (i) Teak - The financial returns to the investment were considered
from the perspective firstly, of the additional flow of revenue generated arising from new technology and
secondly from the overall financial returns to government of the total investment. In both cases, the
returns exceed OCC of 12%. The returns to the incremental investments in new technology are relatively
high at 18%, but the overall returns to teak investments also show a 14% return, consistent with private
sector expectations.
Returns to existing and new technology in teak plantations (PV (12%, 65 years) Rs. million)
Existing technology       Project technology         Incremental changes
Returns to:
Costs  Benefit    Net    Costs  Benefit    Net    Cost  Benefit   Net   FRR
benefits                  benefits    s           benefit  (%)
5
New technology     18     28        10      43       86       43      25     58       33    18 %
Total investment          28                43       86               43     58       15      %
25.   (ii) Eucalyptus - All pulpwood from the industrial plantations as well as bamboo and reeds
from the natural forests are currently supplied to two well established pulpwood companies at heavily
subsidized prices, roughly equal to about 33% of market prices (this is a conservative estimate and may
be higher than this). The financial returns to the existing plantations are negative, (FRR = negative 20%)
with benefits not even covering the costs of planting. Even with new technology, gross revenues are still
less than planting costs. This, together with the fact that existing yields are very low indeed, clouds
overall understanding of the nature and importance of these industrial plantations within the forest sector
and results in a distorted allocation of resources. On the other hand, using market prices, the incremental
financial returns to the new technology are extremely high at 38% reflecting the low yields currently
realized from these plantations. However, the low current productivity is not due only to biological
factors and in order to secure the analytical returns estimated above, assured funding for establishment
and protection is essential (see below) as well as the removal of the subsidy. The combined effect of
removing subsidies and introducing new technology results in huge financial returns with a FRR of 42%
and NPV(12%. 65 years) of Rs.183 million.



55
Returns to existing and new technology in pulpwood plantations (PV (12%, 65 years) Rs. million)
Existing technology    Project technology        Incremental changes
Returns to total
investment:
Costs  Benefit Net    Costs  Benefit Net      Costs  Benefit Net    FRR
benefit               benefits                benefit  (%)
S                                             S
With subsidy
39     19    -20   I11        107       -4    72      89       17  16%
Removal of
subsidy           39      55    +16   111    274        +163    72    219       147  38%
Removal of
subsidy and new   39      19    -20   111    274          163    72    255      183  42%
technology
E. Impact on government revenue
26.   Impact on government revenue: The impact of project activities on govermment expenditure
and revenue is difficult to determine in the long run since it depends on changes in government policy
especially with regard to the green felling ban. In the medium term, revenue will increase with the
removal of subsidies on pulpwood (from August 1999) and on bamboo to KSBC (from the start of the
next phase). Because of the inherent delays in forestry investment, no change in revenue is possible
during the project period. The first yield increases will come from pulpwood plantations, starting from
the seventh year into perpetuity. In the short run, expenditure will increase due to project activities.
27.   Post-project commitment: The project generates considerable post-project commitments on
the part of GOK because of the phasing of activities, amounting to 28% of the costs over a seven-year
period. In the first post project year, assuming no new investment takes place, the post project
commitment is for 50% of the funding required in the last year of the project. In the two subsequent
years, this declines to 30% and 12.5 %. The impact of the project on the KFD development budget rises
from 5% to over 30% by the end of the project. The post project commitment in the first year after the
project is 16 % of development budget.



56
Impact on Departmental costs and revenues (Rs million)
Rs million             97-98 | 98-99 | 99-00 | 00-01 | 01-02 1_02-03 | 03-04  04-05
Departmental costs
KFD Development Budget              1,036  1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100  1,100   1,100
Project costs                         47    161    266    343    172    105         43       0
Project costs    % of KFD
Development Budget                   5 %    15 %    24 %    31 %    16 %    10 %   4 %     0 %
Sector gross revenue
Revenue saved due to removal of
subsidies
Pulpwood (eucalyptus, banboo and   0       0     35      70    105    140    175    175
reeds)
Bamboo to KSBC       0      0       0       0      0      19      19      19
Change on sector gross revenues        0       0   -231      70    105    159    184    184
Sector net revenue
Net change in sector revenue and
expenditure                           -47   -161   -231   -273    -67    +54   + 141   +184
28.    Funding Mechanism and Flow of Funds: Currently, plantations have to compete with other
activities for funds on annual basis since all funding is out of the consolidated fund. This means that
expenditure is not always directly related to revenue potential and investments suffer from a lack of
maintenance and protection after crop establishment. This has contributed to the low yields found in the
plantations. In order to institute greater clarity in resource allocation and to secure proper maintenance
and management of specific enterprises, it is proposed to establish transparent and more accountable
funding mechanisms for the funding of the industrial plantations. Effectively, this means setting up a
revolving fund, with separate accounts for teak and pulpwood. GOK has agreed to establish a revolving
fund with two separate accounts - one for teak and the other for pulpwood plantations. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the rules for constituting and operating the revolving fund for two
accounts would come into effect no later than July 15, 1998. To facilitate early operation of the fund,
GOK would make an adequate initial deposit to the fund by the said date. Each account would hold a
portion of the sales proceeds of that crop viz. teak, 5% and pulpwoocd 50% of sales proceeds. For
industrial plantation, a management and business plan will need to be prepared, setting out projected
yields, the value of yields and projected revenue flows. The exact modalities would need to be finalized
but would mainly be based on the following principles: (a) clarity, with a clear objective for each
category of plantation; (b) transparency, so that costs and benefits to a particular category of plantation
can easily be linked together; and (c) accountability for which actual revenue can easily be related to
expected revenue. Accounting procedures would be developed to handle such situations while
maintaining the above principles.



57
Annex 5
Kerala Forestry Project
Financial Summary
Years FY99-02
(US$ in millions)
Implementation Period
98/99    99/00   00/01    01/02        Total
Priojct Costs
Investment Costs                7.7     10.5    12.5    13.2    43.8
Recurrent Costs                 0.7      0.8      0.8      0.8      3.2
Total                        8.4      11.3     13.3    14.0    47.0
Financing Sources (% of total
=rject costs)
IDA                           83        83       82      83       83
Govemment                      17       15       16       16       16
Beneficiaries                  0         2        2       1        1
Total                      1O0      100       100     100      100






59
Annex 6
Kerala Forestry Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Methods (Table A)
All project components financed under the Credit would be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, and September 1997).
Any modifications to such documents which may be necessary would have to be agreed with IDA.
Specific procurement arrangements summarized in Table A are as follows:
Civil Works. (US$3.9million). Works would be procured following National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) or other procedures acceptable to IDA:
*  NCB. Civil works in the project consist mainly of the construction of building for eco-centers,
residential quarters for Forest Guards, Foresters and Range Officers in remote forest areas, visitor
and field research centers, habitat restitution and repair of gravel forest tracks. Works to an
aggregate value of US$0.5 million would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. The justification for the NCB for civil works is that they consist of
works in widely scattered interior locations, during the four project years, and therefore could not be
grouped together in convenient packages that would attract foreign firms. NCB works have been
grouped into three convenient contract packages considering the location of construction; each
package costing less than US$200,000.
* Other procedures acceptable to IDA. Small works valued at less than US$100,000 up to an
aggregate of US $3.4million would be procured by KFD in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA: (i) under community participation provisions with village communities or non-governmental
organizations; (ii) by soliciting quotations from at least three qualified contracts; or (iii) through
force account. Monitoring of works would be done using procedures acceptable to IDA. About
twenty-five contracts of US$100,000 and less would be procured under this procedure.
Vehicles (US $1.3 million). Vehicles for the project consist of four-wheel drive vehicles,
minibuses, truck, cars, motorcycles and boats, and would be required over the project life of four years.
To meet these requirements, vehicles (cars, vans and motor cycles) costing in aggregate US$1.0 million
would be procured through national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Rate contract of the
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi, would only be acceptable as a
substitute for procurement under national shopping. Purchases of like types of vehicles would be bulked
whenever possible, and it is expected that the purchase contracts would be valued at US$100,000 or less.
Bulked purchases estimated to cost in excess of US$100,000 would be procured through ICB. The
balance of US$0.3 million for the remaining vehicles (mini bus, lorry, trucks and boats) would be
procured under separate contracts following the NCB procedure.
Equipment and Materials (US $7.4 million). Computers and the associated software as well as
root trainers costing more than US$100,000 to an aggregate value of US$2.4 million would be procured
using international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Office and nursery equipment costing more
than US$50,000 but less than US$100,000 to an aggregate of US$0.8 million would be procured through
NCB. The remaining information technology, field, office and laboratory equipment are required over



60
the remaining three years of the project. Individual contracts are not likely to exceed $50,000 and hence
are not suitable for competitive bidding. They would be procured up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 1.1 million through national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Rate contract of the DGS&D,
New Delhi, would only be acceptable as a substitute for procurement under national shopping. Satellite
imagery, aerial photography and maps up to an aggregate amount of about US$1.7 million would be
procured directly from GOI agencies such at the National Remote Sensing Agency or the Survey of
India. Materials for the forest operations up to an aggregate amount of US $1.3 million would be
procured under national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
Forestry Works (US $21.4 million). The project would finance investment expenditures for
forest operations in natural forest lands, degraded areas and new teak plantations. All silvicultural
forestry operations, hiring of labor, production of materials for extension, exhibition and homestead
planting as well as supervision costs come under forestry works. These works come under various heads
of operations are geographically spread over every unit of administration of KFD. In the interest of
project sustainabiility, and due to labor-intensive nature of forestry works, labor services estimated up to
an aggregate amount of US $15.2 million would be procured under community participation provisions
as defined in Procurement Guidelines 3.15 (iii) using rates established by KFD's Forest Schedule of
Rates (FSR), and acceptable to IDA, and up to US$2.0 million would be procured under para 3.8 of the
Guidelines with IDA's prior approval for works carried out through Force Account Currently prevalent
convener systemI for carrying out forestry works in KFD would qualify under community participation
as defined under Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits 3.15 (iii). GOK is
considering a review of the convener system to judge the merits and demerits of the system. Based on
this review, future actions to modify the system would be taken. It was agreed during negotiations that
the FSR would be revised on the basis of a work study and payment allowed at market rates to the labor
hired for all field forestry operations. Supervision costs amounting to US $4.2 million would be
procured by standard GOK procedures.
Participatory Forest Management Funds (US $2.8 million). Investment expenditures would
finance small works and village development activities in widely scattered hamlets over the four-year
project period. Procedures acceptable to IDA for management of the investment, including planning, the
selection process, eligibility criteria, would be utilized. Civil works required for these investments
would be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA: (i) under community participation
provisions by direct contracting with village communities or non-governmental organizations; (ii) by
soliciting quotations from at least three qualified contractors; or (iii) through force account.
Consultancies, Training and Studies (US $5.4million). Consultancy services estimated at
US $1.1 million with firms and US $2.3 million with individuals for management support,
implementation assistance and special studies would be contracted on terms and conditions in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants ("Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997").
Consulting services in contract less than US $20,000 (mainly small NGOs) up to an aggregate of
US$0.5 million for participatory planning and implementation assistance with Ecodevelopment and
Participatory Forest Management would be contracted on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOK would select NGOs in accordance with criteria
agreed with IDA. Training estimated to cost US $1.5, including a service contract for placement and
support of trainees would be procured using government/administrative procedures acceptable to IDA.
Detailed training plans are available in the PIP, Annex 13, and consist of training courses for KFD staff
and communities.
IA convener is a leader of forest workers selected from the local community engaged in forestry works. The
convener is selected on the basis of his/her experience and past performance record, and undertakes the work on a
no-profit/loss basis as per the rates approved in FSR (See PIP, Annex 14).



61
Procurement Review Thresholds (Table B)
All ICB and NCB contacts for works and goods exceeding US$200,000 and the first two contract
for goods and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 but more than $20,000 would be subject to
prior review by IDA. In respect to consultancies, (i) the model documents for inviting proposals,
(ii) terms of reference for consultant contacts regardless of value (including NGOs and autonomous
government organizations), (iii) all single source contracts regardless of value (not applicable to
contracts for individuals), and (v) all contracts (original or amendments) valued at more than US
$100,000 awarded to firms, or US $50,000 or more awarded to individuals, would be subject to prior
review by IDA. This would result in prior review of about 40 percent of all contracts procured.
Contracts below the threshold levels would be subject to selective post-review by visiting missions.
Review of Participatory Forest Management investments would concentrate on the consistency of the
investments with the selection and eligibility criteria, agreed procurement procedures, competitiveness of
prices paid and physical inspections of the relevant items. This would results in only about 20 percent of
project expenditures being subject to prior review, the nature of the project-with contract, unskilled
labor used for plantation work and the emphasis on programs managed and implemented by villagers and
NGOs-is such that a higher level of IDA prior review would not have a significant impact on
procurement quality.
Procurement Schedule. A detailed procurement schedule is presented in PIP Annex 14.
Bidding Documents. The model bidding documents acceptable to IDA and already agreed with
GOI and GOK would be used.
Disbursements
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
The IDA credit of US$ 39.0 million would be disbursed over a period of four years, beginning in
the first quarter of IDA FY99 through the end of the second quarter of FY03. The disbursement
schedule is based on completion of the proposed project by December 31, 2002. The allocation of Credit
proceeds by disbursement category and percentages financed are shown in Table C.
Disbursements against goods and works contracts over US $200,000, and all consultant contacts
that require prior review, including contract exceeding US $100,000 equivalent for firms and US $50,000
equivalent for individuals, would be fully documented. Disbursement for all other expenditures would
be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by GOK and be made available to IDA staff during supervision missions.
To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, a
special account in US dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of India, with an authorized
allocation of US $2.5 million. The KFD would submit withdrawal applications directly to the Controller
of Aid Accounts, DEA, sending copies to MOEF. Assurances were obtained that GOI and GOK would
implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channeling funds required for carrying out the project.



62
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
KFD would design, develop and maintain Project Financial Management Systems according to
the guidelines as detailed in PIP. KFD would appoint consultants to design and develop the
computerized project Financial Management System and implement the system by March 31, 1999. The
Financial Management System would be integrated within the FMIS. PC would have a full time
dedicated finance and accounts professional to work as a Finance Manager who would be appointed
before project effectiveness. He would be responsible for financial planning and reporting, accounting,
and submission of withdrawal requests to the Bank. The Finance Manager would be a qualified
accountant and experienced finance professional. He would be responsible for preparing and furnishing
to IDA a project financial report on a quarterly basis, in the agreed format.
KFD would establish a separate Project Account. This account together with supporting
documentation, including contributions from GOI and the Credit, would provide a comprehensive record
of project financing and expenditures. The project account and the special account would be subject to
normal GOI and GOK accounting procedures and controls. Project accounts would summarize project
expenditures under categories to be agreed with IDA, showing: (a) actual versus planned expenditures
for each quarter; (b) actual versus planned expenditures accumulated to date; and (c) financing source of
the quarter, and accumulated, by IDA and GOK. The summaries, which would provide information for
the SOEs would form part of the project account, including those expenditures for which reimbursement
would be claimed with full documentation. The project accounts would be supported by a listing with
the withdrawal applications submitted for the period. They would be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles.
Auditing. Project Financial Statements would be audited annually in accordance with standards
on auditing acceptable to the Bank by an independent auditor. KFD would also create an Internal Audit
Unit comprising an Internal Auditor and two audit assistants to ensure that internal control system and
procedures are adequate and complied with. The consolidated audited project accounts, including the
special account and SOEs, and the auditors' reports, which would include a separate statement on the
SOEs and certified copies of the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the
close of the fiscal year. The audit report on SOEs would specifically comment on their usage and the
controls established to ensure their accuracy. The special account that would be maintained by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would show all withdrawal request disbursed, amounts
advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and the balance at the end of each accounting period. Auditors'
reports would reflect the certification of the balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. GOK would
prepare a project report on a biannual basis, in a format agreed with IDA, summarizing project progress
in physical terms by project component, linked to financial terms that would be based on the biannual
unaudited project accounts.
Flow of Funds Arrangements. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOK funds
would be released by the Finance Department through the Letter of Credit (LC), on a quarterly basis at
the beginning of the quarter on the basis of requirement of funds estimated by KFD. KFD would also
release funds to PFM and VED sub-components on the basis of MOU reached between KFD and VED.
KFD would follow the same mechanism as has been followed in the Ecodevelopment project
implemented by KFD.



63
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Project Elements                         Procurement Method                                   Total Costs
ICB             NCB              Others       Consulting
I_________________I___   _____________ Services
.................................. .US$million.
Civil Works                                       0.5              3.4                             3.9
(0.4)            (2.8)                           (3.2)
Goods and materials              2.4              0.8              4.2                             7.4
(1.9)            (0.6)            (3.4)                           (5.9)
Vehicles                                          0.3              1.0                             1.3
(0.2)            (0.8)                           (1.0)
Consultancies, studies,                                                            5.4             5.4
Training, and Technical                                                           (5.4)           (5.4)
Assistance
Participatory Forest                                               2.8                             2.8
Management (civil                                                 (2.4)                           (2.4)
works, forest operations,
materials)
Forest Operations                                                 21.4                             21.4
(Plantation Costs)                                                (17.9)                          (17.9)
Recurrent/Project                                                  3.8                             3.8
Supervision Costs                                                 (2.0)                           (2.0)
Project Preparation                                                1.0                             1.0
Facility                                                          (1.0)                           (1.0)
Total                            2.4              1.6              37.6            5.4            47.0
(1.9)            (1.4)           (30.3)           (5.4)          (39.0)
Note:
1.     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
2.      Other methods include force account, national shopping, direct contracting, and community
participation.



64
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category       Type of Procurement           Contract       Value (US$
value (US$)    million)
(Threshold)    of contracts
subject to
Prior Review
Works
Civil works             NCB/Force Accounts           Above           0.5
Field Works             Force Accounts               200,000
Goods
Equipment/supplies      ICBINCB                       Above          2.4
Vehicles                 National Shopping/Direct     200,000
Contracting                          .
Consultancies*, studies,   Consultant Guidelines: QCBS,   TORlShortlist
Training, Technical        QBS, IC, SSS                 for under       1.5
Assistance                                               50,000 (ind.)
Studies & Consultants                                and 100,00 for
firms.
All Critical
Above
100,000 firms
Above 50,000
individuals
Direct selection             None
Training
Miscellaneous              National Shopping/Force
Operating Costs         Account                      None
Project Preparation     GOK Guidelines
Facility                   According to category
TOTAL              T
First two contract for civil works, and first two contract for goods and equipment regardless of value subject to prior
review.
* Selection methods: Quality and Cost-Based selection (QCBS); Quality based Selection (QBS; Based on
Individual Consultants Qualification (IC); Single Source Selection (SSS).



65
Table C.      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount            Financing Percentage
(US$ million)
1. Civil works - buildings             3.2             85%
including construction of
nurseries
2. Forestry Works (except              14.8            85% of labor, materials and
industrial plantations and                             supervision for plantation
bamboo and reeds)                                      costs
(labor service delivery
contracts, materials and
supervision)
3. Participatory Forestry              2.4             85% of labor and materials for
Works                                                  plantation costs, and 80% for
(consisting of civil works,                            civil works
forest operations and
materials)
4. Teak Plantation.                    0.9             50% of plantation costs
5. Pulpwood including                  3.5             85% of labor and materials for
Bamboo and reeds                                       plantation costs
6. Equipment Supplies,                 5.8             100% of foreign expenditures,
vehicles, construction                                 100% of local ex-factory costs
materials                                              or 80% of other local costs of
vehicles, equipment and
materials, except for those
financed through Participatory
Forest Management
7.  Consultant services,               5.4             100% of expenditures on
including NGO services,                                consultant (including NGOs)
training and studies                                   services, training, workshops,
meetings and special studies
8.  Incremental O&M costs,             2.0             80% upto march 31, 2000
travel costs, other than staff                         50% upto
salaries and allowances                                20%
9. Refund of project                   1.0             100%
Preparation
Advance
TOTAL                                 39.0






67
Annex 7
Kerala Forestry Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned (US$000's)  Actual (as of 02/20/98)
Development                                                                     20
Pre-appraisal                                                                   130
Appraisal                                                                       120
Total                                               310                     270
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                      15
Pre-appraisal mission departure                                              6/20/96
Appraisal mission departure                            / /19                 9/20/97
Negotiations                                          1/27/98               1/28 /1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         7/1/98                   / /19
Prepared by: Kerala Forest Department with consultancy assistance from ANZDEC/TERI
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant Agreement (TF022586)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
C. Keil (Task Leader), M. Munshi (Co-Task Leader), G. Temple (Economist), I. Khan (Forestry Specialist),
J. Falconer (Social Forestry Specialist), S. Satish (Social Development Specialist), Ch. Maguire
(Institutions & Human Resources Development Specialist), E. D'Silva (Institutions & Human Resources
Development Specialist), M. Jansen (Environmental Specialist), E. Sennhauser (Environmental Specialist),
R. Robelus (Environmental Specialist), P. Kishor (Information Scientist), Y. Prevost (Information
Management Specialist), K.N. Venkata Raman (Procurement Engineer), C. Perera (Sr. Disbursement
Officer), S. Vani (Financial Management Specialist), S. Salman (Sr. Counsel), Correia Da Silva (Sr.
Counsel)
Bank Consultants who worked on the project included:
D. Shields (Economist), N. Jones (Geneticist), S. Sankaramurthy (Forestry Secialist)






69
Annex 8
Kerala Forestry Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP prepared by KFD, 1997
B. Bank Staff Assessments
IEPS Phase:
IEPS document; minutes of the IEPS meeting; comments of the peer reviewers
Pre-appraisal.
Set of Bank staff and consultant working papers (10 papers)
Appraisal:
Electronic Files:                        Project Appraisal Document
Financial & Economic Analysis - text part
Financial & Economic Analysis - table part
Project Cost Tables
Environmental Review
C. Other
Preparation Phase:
ANZDEC/TERI/Groome-Poyry: Kerala Forestry Project Preparation Report,
April 1995 - Main report and 13 working papers; 2 workshop reports
Landpeople Consultants: Positive Interaction of People in Respect of Protected Areas
Management, Trivandrum, 1997
Mitraniketan Consultancy: Study on Participation for Management in Fringe Forest Areas in
Kerala, Trivandrum, July 1997
GOKDocuments:
State Forest Action Program 1996
Kerala Forestry Project 1993-98 - initial project proposal, 1993






71
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of December 31, 1997)
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions        and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit No.   Year              Purpose                                                      Original   Form.
IBRD      IDA      Cancel-   Undis-   (SAR)   Revised
lations    bursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 373
Active Loans
IN-PE-35169   IDA30180       1998  U.P. FORESTRY                        0.00     52.94      0.00     52.85      0.00     N/A
IN-PE-38021   IDA30120       1998  DPEP III (BIHAR)                     0.00    152.00      0.00    151.51      0.00     N/A
IN-PE-50638   IDA30130       1998  UP BASIC ED 11                       0.00     59.40      0.00     59.22      0.00     N/A
IN-PE-9979    IBRD42260   1998  COAL SECTOR REHAB                    530.00       0.00      0.00    530.00      0.00     N/A
IN-PE-9979    IDA29860       1998  COAL SECTOR REHAB                    0.00      2.00      0.00      2.03      0.00     N/A
IN-PE-10473   IDA29360       1997  TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                 0.00    142.40      0.00    128.48     12.12     N/A
IN-PE-10511   IDA29640       1997  MALARIA CONTROL                      0.00    164.80      0.00    156.60      1.02     N/A
IN-PE-10531   IDAN0180    1997  REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHI                    0.00    248.30      0.00    236.24      3.08     N/A
IN-PE-35158   IBRD41660   1997  AP IRRIGATION III                     175.00      0.00      0.00    175.00   -18.70      N/A
IN-PE-35158   IDA29520       1997  AP IRRIGATION 111                    0.00    150.00      0.00     96.71               N/A
IN-PE-36062   IDA29160       1997  ECODEVELOPMENT                       0.00     28.00      0.00     24.43      -.66     N/A
IN-PE-43728   IDA29300       1997  ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                 0.00     50.00      0.00     44.09      -.11     N/A
IN-PE-44449   IDA29420       1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                    0.00     19.50      0.00     18.29      2.85     N/A
IN-PE-45600   IBRD41140   1997  TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                  51.50       0.00      0.00     45.85     10.35     N/A
IN-PE-49301   IBRD41560   1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                    50.00      0.00      0.00     50.00      6.33     N/A
IN-PE-49301   IDA29500       1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                 0.00    100.00       0.00     89.77               N/A
IN-PE-9995    IBRD41920   1997  STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                  350.00      0.00      0.00    337.65     -8.35     N/A
IN-PE-10480   IBRD39230    1996  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                    167.00      0.00      0.00    145.40    45.23      N/A
IN-PE-10484   IBRD40560    1996  UP RURAL WATER                        59.60      0.00      0.00     56.49      1.59     N/A
IN-PE-10485   IDA27740       1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                    0.00    142.00      0.00    114.72    25.61      N/A
IN-PE-10529   IDA28010       1996  ORISSA WRCP                          0.00    290.90      0.00    212.08     -7.69     N/A
IN-PE-35170   IBRD40140   1996  ORISSAPOWERSECTOR                    350.00       0.00      0.00    334.57     14.58     N/A
IN-PE-35821   IDA28760       1996  DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                 0.00    425.20      0.00    385.30    24.67      N/A
IN-PE-35825   IDA28330       1996  STATE HEALTH SYS II                  0.00    350.00      0.00    305.38    34.68      N/A
IN-PE-39935   IBRD39920   1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                  200.00       0.00      0.00    175.00     17.50     N/A
IN-PE-39935   IDA28380       1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                  0.00      5.00      0.00      4.61               N/A
IN-PE-43310   IDA28620       1996  COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                 0.00     63.00      0.00     54.92      .19      N/A
IN-PE-10461   IBRD39076   1995  MADRAS WATER SUP II                   269.80      0.00    189.30     75.37     82.18     N/A
IN-PE-10463   IBRD37790   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                  93.00       0.00      0.00     85.93    45.69      N/A
IN-PE-10463   IBRD37806    1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                  50.00      0.00      0.00     44.87               N/A
IN-PE-10463   IDA26450       1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                 0.00     25.00      0.00     23.75               N/A
IN-PE-10464   IDA26610       1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                  0.00    260.30      0.00    169.78     17.98     N/A
IN-PE-10476   IDA27450       1995  TAMILNADU WRCP                       0.00    282.90      0.00    232.40    64.41      N/A
IN-PE-10489   IDA26630       1995  AP IST REF. HEALTH S                 0.00    133.00      0.00    106.34    22.87      N/A
IN-PE-10503   IDA26990       1995  AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                 0.00     59.50      0.00     46.00    26.25      N/A
IN-PE-10506   IDA27000       1995  MP FORESTRY                          0.00     58.00      0.00     38.06     4.54      N/A
IN-PE-10522   IDA27330       1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRA                    0.00    126.00      0.00    104.77    23.77      N/A
IN-PE-10563   IBRD38560    1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                350.00       0.00      0.00    200.00  -159.74      N/A
IN-PE-10563   IBRD38576    1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                 144.00      0.00      0.00    140.26               N/A
IN-PE-10448   IDA25720       1994  FORESTRY RESEARCH ED.N              0.00      47.00      0.00     31.20    20.61      N/A
IN-PE-10449   IDA25730       1994  ANDHRA PRADESH                       0.00     77.40      0.00     47.10     14.61     N/A
FORESTRY
IN-PE-10455   IDA26110       1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                    0.00    117.80      0.00     92.23    23.64      N/A
IN-PE-10457   IDA26300       1994  POPULATION IX                        0.00     88.60      0.00     69.31     16.58     N/A
IN-PE-34162   IDA25940       1994  MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUA                 0.00    246.00     29.19     32.07    57.40      6.99
IN-PE-9870    IBRD37530   1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT                   94.00       0.00      0.00     82.42    64.43      N/A
IN-PE-9964    IDA25920       1994  WATER RES CONSOL                     0.00    258.00      0.00    174.27    55.17      N/A
HARYANA
IN-PE-10407   IDA24330       1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                     0.00    106.00       0.00     42.46    24.18      N/A
IN-PE-10408   IDA24390       1993  BIHAR PLATEAU                       0.00    117.00       0.00     76.77    66.02      N/A
IN-PE-10410   IDA24490       1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES                 0.00    115.00       0.00     85.36    102.34     N/A



72
IN-PE-10416   IBRD35770   1993  PGCPOWERSYSTEM                     350.00       0.00     0.00    164.52   126.51     N/A
IN-PE-10418  IDA24830       1993  KARNATAKA WS &                     0.00     92.00      0.00     64.72    48.88      N/A
ENV/SANN
IN-PE-10423   IBRD36320   1993  NTPC POWER GENERATION              400.00      0.00      0.00    213.68   213.69     N/A
IN-PE-10424  IDA25280       1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMIN.               0.00     85.00      9.07     40.35    34.69     N/A
IN-PE-9955    IDA25090      1993  UTTARPRADESHBASICED                0.00    165.00      0.00     62.99     5.52  -101.06
IN-PE-9959    IDA24090      1993  RUBBER                             0.00     92.00     36.58     35.10    52.22      .84
IN-PE-9961    IDA25100    1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLAM                0.00     54.70      0.00     29.10    12.51     N/A
IN-PE-9977    IDA24700      1993  ICDS II (BIHAR& MP)                0.00    194.00      0.00    158.46    82.86    79.27
IN-PE-10390   IDA23280      1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY               0.00    124.00     16.18     54.34    50.00    34.94
IN-PE-10393   IDA23500      1992  AIDS PREVENTION AND                0.00     84.00      0.00     31.23    31.49     N/A
IN-PE-10400  IBRD34980   1992  MAHARASHTRA POWER II                350.00      0.00      0.00    237.75   234.14     N/A
IN-PE-9888    IBRD34360   1992  POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP               265.00      0.00     25.00     65.72    90.74    65.74
IN-PE-9921    IDA23290      1992  SHRIMP&FISHCULTUR                  0.00     85.00     48.51     24.12    64.51    10.92
IN-PE-9946    IBRD34700   1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                   153.00      0.00      0.00    153.00    71.23     N/A
IN-PE-9946    1DA23650      1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                   0.00    153.00      0.00     61.17              N/A
IN-PE-9963    IDA23940      1992  POPULATION VIII                    0.00     79.00      0.00     67.41    49.62     N/A
IN-PE-10369   IDA22340      1991  MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS               0.00    109.90      0.00     36.68    39.96     N/A
IN-PE-9877    IDA22410      1991  DAM SAFETY                         0.00    130.00     27.03     63.57    112.03    73.36
IN-PE-9885    IBRD32590   1991  PETROCHEMICALS                     233.00      0.00     70.30     26.65    97.63    27.33
IN-PE-9906    IBRD33340   1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO               124.00      0.00      0.00     14.77     9.84     N/A
IN-PE-9906    IDA22520      1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO               0.00     31.60      0.00     14.30              N/A
IN-PE-9958    IBRD33000   1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                      20.00      0.00      0.00     20.00     16.58    N/A
IN-PE-9958    IDA22150    1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                       0.00     92.80      0.00      8.92              N/A
IN-PE-9988    IDA22230      1991  TECHEDUCII                         0.00    307.10     51.37    117.04   143.94    33.53
IN-PE-9860    IDA21310      1990  WTRSHED PLAINS                     0.00     55.00      0.00     14.29    12.09     4.04
IN-PE-9882    IDA21000      1990  WTRSHED HILLS                      0.00     75.00      0.00     27.92    36.28    23.28
IN-PE-9890    IDA21150      1990  HYDERABAD W/S                      0.00     79.90      0.00     17.28    18.10     6.30
IN-PE-9940    IDA21330      1990  POP. TRG (VII)                     0.00     86.70     22.74      4.52    29.79    -5.03
IN-PE-9965    IDA20760      1990  PUNJABIRR&DRAINAG                  0.00    150.00      4.72     26.87    28.85    10.13
IN-PE-9982    IBRD32370   1990  NORREGTRANSM                       485.00      0.00      0.00    230.92   230.91     N/A
IN-PE-9989    IDA21300      1990  TECH EDUC I                        0.00    235.00     24.26     43.85    78.63    29.37
IN-PE-9869    IBRD30240   1989  NATHPAJHAKRIHYDRO                  485.00      0.00      0.00    188.89   188.89     N/A
IN-PE-9941    IBRD30960   1989  MAHARASHTRA POWER                  400.00      0.00     62.67     59.93    122.61    -5.76
IN-PE-9973    IBRD29940   1989  STATE ROADS I                      170.00      0.00     61.41      6.99    63.11      .70
IN-PE-9990    IDA20080      1989  VOCATIONALTRAINING                 0.00    250.00    103.33     36.12   163.97    19.97
Total                                                             6,368.90  7,373.64    781.66  8,411.08
Active Loans          Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):             4,373.32         30,587.78               34,961.
I
of which has been repaid:                 196.92           9,096.77               9,293.6
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:            12,763.92         20,924.04               33,687.
9
Amount sold          :                          0.00            133.77                      13
Of which repaid     :                         0.00             133.77                     13
Total Undisbursed                           8,411.08             97.37               8,508.4
a. Intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal minus actual disbursements to date or, if disbursement projections have been
formally revised, then formally revised disbursement projections to date minus actual disbursements to date.



73
India           .
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As November 30, 1997
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
1964/75/79/90       MUSCO                     0.00     1.08     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.08     0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93       HDFC                     40.00     2.29     0.00       0.00    40.00      2.29     0.00    0.00
1981                Nagarjuna Steel           0.00      .07     0.00       0.00     0.00      .07      0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96    ITW Signode            0.00     1.55     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.55     0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92    TISCO                     6.64    15.37     0.00       0.00     6.64     15.37     0.00    0.00
1981/90/93          M&M                        .83     6.49     0.00       3.33      .83      6.49     0.00    3.33
1982                Modi Cement              16.54     0.00     0.00       0.00     16.54     0.00     0.00    0.00
1984/90/94          India Lease               1.09      .86     0.00       0.00      1.09     .86      0.00    0.00
1984/91             Bihar Sponge             12.82      .68     0.00       0.00     12.82     .68      0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-City Mills            .48      0.00     0.00       0.00      .48      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-CECL                  .01      0.00     0.00       0.00      .01      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-NB Footwear            .19     0.00     0.00       0.00      .19      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-Paharpur              .15      0.00     0.00       0.00      .15      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-STG                    .43     0.00     0.00       0.00      .43      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-TAN                    .03     0.00     0.00       0.00      .03      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986                EXB-Wires & Fab.           .07     0.00     0.00       0.00      .07      0.00     0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94       GESCO                     0.00    11.97     0.00       0.00     0.00     11.97     0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95       India Equipment            .54      .77     0.00       1.33      .54      .77      0.00     1.33
1987                Hindustan                 7.44     0.00     0.00       0.00     7.44      0.00     0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93       Titan Watches             1.65     1.03     0.00       0.00      1.65     1.03     0.00    0.00
1988/90/92          Tata Telecom              0.00      .10     0.00       0.00     0.00      .10      0.00    0.00
1988/94             GKN Invel                 0.00     1.40     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.40     0.00    0.00
1989                AEC                      12.77     0.00     0.00       0.00     12.77     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989                UCAL                      0.00      .63     0.00       0.00     0.00      .63      0.00    0.00
1989/90/94          Tata Electric            58.82     0.00     0.00       0.00    58.82      0.00     0.00    0.00
1989/91             Gujarat State            11.26     0.00     0.00       0.00    11.26      0.00     0.00    0.00
1989/95             JSB India                 0.00     1.21     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.21     0.00    0.00
1990                HOEL                      0.00      .28     0.00       0.00     0.00       .28     0.00    0.00
1990                TDICI-VECAUS II           0.00     1.59     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.59     0.00    0.00
1990/92             CESC                     47.23     0.00     0.00      67.00    47.23      0.00     0.00   67.00
1990/93/94          IL&FS                    25.50     3.11     1.81       9.00    25.50      3.11     1.81    9.00
1990/94             ICICI-IFGL                0.00      .30     0.00       0.00     0.00       .30     0.00    0.00
1990/95             ICICI-SPIC Fine           0.00     1.88     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.88     0.00    0.00
1991                BSES                     42.50     0.00     0.00       0.00    42.50      0.00     0.00    0.00
1991/93             Triveni                   0.00     1.11     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.11     0.00    0.00
1991/96             VARUN                     9.53     1.35     0.00       4.67     9.53      1.35     0.00    4.67
1992                Indus VC Mgt Co           0.00      .01     0.00       0.00     0.00      .01      0.00    0.00
1992                Indus VCF                 0.00     1.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.00     0.00    0.00
1992                Info Tech Fund            0.00      .64     0.00       0.00     0.00       .64     0.00    0.00
1992                SKF Bearings              5.74     0.00     0.00       0.00     5.74      0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/93             Arvind Mills              0.00    17.10     0.00       0.00     0.00    17.10      0.00    0.00
1992/94/97          [spat Industries         82.01     5.77     0.00      85.00    42.14      5.77     0.00    0.00
1992/95             Creditcapital VF          0.00     1.05     0.00       0.00     0.00      1.05     0.00    0.00
1992/96/97          NICCO-UCO                 1.88      .50     0.00       0.00      1.88      .50     0.00    0.00
1993/94/96          Indo Rama                20.31    11.98     0.00       8.13    20.31     11.98     0.00    8.13
1993/97             20TH Century             15.78      .80     0.00       4.62     5.78      .80      0.00    4.62
1994                Centurion Growth          0.00     2.39     0.00       0.00     0.00      2.39     0.00    0.00
1994                Chowgule                 15.00     4.58     0.00      24.36    14.65      4.58     0.00   23.72
1994                Crdcap Asset Mgt          0.00      .32     0.00       0.00     0.00      .32      0.00    0.00
1994                DLF Cement                9.90     4.94     0.00      14.88     9.90      4.94     0.00   14.88
1994                Global Trust              0.00     3.19     0.00       0.00     0.00      3.19     0.00    0.00
1994                Gujarat Ambuja            0.00     8.23     0.00       0.00     0.00      8.23     0.00    0.00
1994                Taurus Starshare          0.00     7.17     0.00       0.00     0.00      7.17     0.00    0.00
1994                TCAMC                     0.00      .16     0.00       0.00     0.00      .16      0.00    0.00
1994/97             GVK                      40.00     8.30     0.00      37.00    30.00      7.45     0.00   37.00
1995                Centurion Bank            0.00     3.87     0.00       0.00     0.00      3.87     0.00    0.00
1995                EXIMBANK                 25.00     0.00     0.00       0.00    25.00      0.00     0.00    0.00
1995                GE Capital               13.75     5.00     0.00       0.00     13.75     4.39     0.00    0.00
1995                ISIC                      0.00      .32     0.00       0.00     0.00      .32      0.00    0.00



74
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval             Company            Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic        Loan     Equity    Quasi   Partic
1995                  Prism Cement              15.00      5.02      0.00      15.00     15.00      5.02      0.00    15.00
1995                  Rain Calcining            19.25      4.72      0.00       0.00     14.75      4.72      0.00     0.00
1995                  RPG Communicatns           0.00      8.30      0.00       0.00      0.00      8.30      0.00     0.00
1995                  Sara Fund                  0.00      6.61      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.10      0.00     0.00
1996                  CVF Oil Gas-AL             8.00      8.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1996                 India Direct Fnd            0.00      7.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.80      0.00     0.00
1996                 Indus 11                    0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00     0.00
1996                 Indus Mauritius             0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1996                  Moser Baer                 5.70       .60      0.00       0.00      5.70       .60      0.00     0.00
1996                  United Riceland           10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                  Asian Electronic          17.21      5.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      5.50      0.00     0.00
1997                  CEAT                      20.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                  Owens Coming              25.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     25.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                  SREI                      15.00      3.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00     0.00
1997                  WIPRO                     10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                  TCW/ICICI                  0.00     10.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.50      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                  671.05    206.69      1.81     274.32    529.12    175.52      1.81   188.68
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity    Ouasi    Partic
1996                  CESC 11 -BLINC             0.00      0.00      0.00      37.00
1996                  DEV CREDIT BANK            0.00      1.89      0.00       0.00
1997                  DUNCAN HOSPITAL            7.00      1.00      0.00       0.00
1997                  EEPL                       0.00      .03      0.00        0.00
1995                 IB VALLEY POWER            50.00     20.00     0.00        0.00
1998                 IDFC                        0.00     20.00      0.00       0.00
1997                 ITC CLASSIC                20.00      0.00     10.00      0.00
1994                  NEYVELI POWER             30.00     18.00      0.00     150.00
1997                  NUFSL                      5.00      0.00     0.00        5.00
1997                  SAPL                       0.00       .07      0.00       0.00
1995                  SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE           0.00      .86       0.00       0.00
1996                  TARUN SHIPPING             0.00       .80      0.00       0.00
1997                  WALDEN - MGMT              0.00       .08      0.00       0.00
1997                  WIV                        0.00      6.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         112.00     68.73     10.00     192.00



75
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                South     Low-
India      Asia  income        Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          943.2     1,264    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                                380        380       500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 358.4       481     1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                            1.7        1.9      17
Labor force (%1.)                                         2.0        2.1      1.7   I per                               primary
Most recent estimate (batestyear available since 1989)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                35
Urban population (% of total population)                  27         26        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          62         61        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  68         75        69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                63           -
Access to safe water (% of population)                    63         63        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      48         50        34              India
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)      102         98       105                I
Male                                                   113        110      112                 Low-income group
Female                                                  91         87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratiosw
GOP (billions US5)                             91.0    214.3       328.3    355.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  20.8      24.2       26.2     26.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP               6.2       6.0       12.2     12.3             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GOP                     20.4      21.1       23.6     23.9
Gross national savings/GDP                     20.6      21.6       24.0     25.1
Current account balance/GOP                     0.0      -2.8      -1.8      -1.1
Interest payments/GOP                           0.3       0.6        1.2       ..      Savings        .-             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 15.1      19.1       28.6     27.6
Total debt service/exports                     13.1      22.7       28.2
Present value of debt/GOP                         ..       ..       22.8
Present value of debt/exports                    ..        ..      161.4       ..                  Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96      1995      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                      -   India
GDP                                    4.2      5.6       7.3        7.5
GNP per capita                         1.9      3.5       5.4        5.2                          Low-income group
Exports of goodsand services           3.9     11.5      31.6        7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(I% of GDP)                                                                            Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                    40.5      33.0       27.9     27.8      90 -
Industry                                       23.7      28.1      30.1      29.2    :
Manufacturing                                 16.7     17.9       19.7     20.1
Services                                       35.8      38.8      42.1      43.0    . s                    -
9t   93    94    3S   94
Private consumption                            70.2      67.8       65.8     65.6    .15 -
General govemment consumption                   9.4      11.1       10.6     10.5                      Got    G DP
Imports of goods and services                   6.6       9.1       14.9     14.9                -
1975-85  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                                Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agnculture                                      2.5       3.6       -0.1      5.7      40 -
Industry                                        5.3       6.6       1 1.6     7.0
Manufacturing                                 5.5       6.7       13.6      8.1      20
Services                                        5.1       6.7        8.8      7.4
Private consumpton                              4.5       4.8        2.6      7.1       o
General govemment consumption                   6.5       3.9        5.1      6.4             Y      9     9     9      9
Gross domestic investment                       4.1       7.1       17.9      8.5    -20_
Imports of goods and services                   9.1       6.0       17.3      7.0
Gross national product                          4.1       5.4        7.2      6.7                  Expors   I        iport
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. All GOP data other than sectoral value-added are in market prices.
e The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will



76
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                         Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   ..      5.6       10.2
Implicit GDP deflator                           -1.5      7.5        7.3       7.0
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                            . o
Current revenue                                   ..    23.8        24.3        ..             91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                            ..      2.2        1.0         .GDPoef.                           CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ,,    11.0        10.1        -,
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                               ..   8,793      31,783   33,107      4acoo -
Tea                                              ..     512        350
Iron                                             ..     473        518         ..    30,000 -
Manufactures                                    ..   5,640      24,483
Total imports (cif)                                    15,957     36,354   38,548      200:: 0
Food                                             ..   1,321      1,243        I..
Fuel and energy                                  ..   4,054      7.201                1.0 
Capital goods                                   ..    3.502      6.577         .
Export price index (1987=100)                     .        94         99                      90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                     ..       90        121         .-                   Expons    S Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         ..      104         81
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 5,650   12,773      40,181   43,855        _  ,
Imports of goods and services                 5,990   19,422      48,788   53,087          90   91   92   93   94   95   96
Resource balance                               -340   -6,649      -8,607   -9.232               - _
Net income                                     -150   -1,552      -4.157   -4,429
Net current transfers                           470    2.207       7,000     9.780      2
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers             -20   -5.994       -5.764   -3,881
Financing items (net)                            20    6.542       2,040    9.803
Changes in net reserves                           0      -548      3,724   -5,922       -
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill USS)             2,065    9,493      22.843   24.919
Conversion rate (loca6lUSS)                      8.7     12.2       33.5      35.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          13,708   40.960     93,766   98,193
IBRD                                          436    2,396       9.849    8.768                      G       A
IDA                                         2,809    9,750      17.499   17.616                     5049    9849
Total debt service                              822    3,532      13,123    13.742
IBRO                                           89       313      1.714     1,514                /
IDA                                            24       124       357       364          F                           17499
29260
Composition of net resource flows                                                              .
Official grants                               511      450         556        --              .    /                  C
Official creditors                          1.260     1,424      -867         ..                                     23 >  274
Private crediors                               83    2,277        775         ..                                    0
Foreign direct investment                      85       106      1,300        ..38
Portfolio equity                                0         0      1.517        2. 7097
Wortd Bank program
Commitments                                   917    2.882       1.697    1.725       A -1.3RD                     E . Biatera
Disbursements                                 531     1,375      1.318     1.592      8-ICA     0 -Otnermuitateral   F -Pvate
Principal repayments                           63       157      1.170     1.074      C- IMF                       G -Son-term
Netflows                                      467     1.218        149      518 
Interest payments                              50      280        901       804
Net transfers                                 417       938      -752      -287
Development Econonmics                                                                                                    8120/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29229
76~                                          77'
INDIA
ARAGOD                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~KERALA FORESTRY PROJECT12
FOREST AREAS AND SANCTUARIES
*    ~~~     APALAM
WAYANAD
WILDLIFE              ____NATURAL FORESTS
Connanore             RESERVE                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~WILDLIFE RESERVES
~~~WAYANAD ~~~~~~~~FOREST PLANTATIONS
0Kapott                -.---~~~~~~ RIVERS
0    DISTRICT CAPITALS
(   STATE CAPITAL
SIET       ----DISTRICTr BOUNDARIES
Kozhkode #    ~ ~ ~ ~ EYSTATE BOUNDARIES
MAPALKA
n-PonnonPago 
KOTTAYAM             
0 KotaamPERIYAR
LLA             ~~~SHENDURNEY9.
PEPPARA
DECEMBER 1997



