Report No. PID6724
Project Name                     India-Kerala Forestry Project(+)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       INPE49477
Borrower                         Government of India
Implementation Agency            Government of Kerala
Kerala Forest Department
Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum)
Contact: Mr. K. Balachandran Thampi
Chief Conservator of Forests,
Project Cell
Fax: (91-471) 360452
Appraisal Date                   September/October 1997
Date PID Prepared                August 10, 1998
Project Board Date               March 24, 1998
Project Objectives.    The main objective of the project lies in assisting the
Government of Kerala (GOK) in arresting the retrograde trend in forest cover
development and improving forest productivity in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner and, in alleviating the living standards of rural
poor residing in forest infringements. The project objectives would be
achieved through: (a) improving the forest policy framework and
strengthening institutions; (b) increasing the stocking and productivity of
natural and plantation forest on forest and non-forest land; and (c)
conserving biodiversity. The key indicators of project performance and
achievement by the end of the project would be (a) the growth of healthy and
sustainably managed forests; (b) increase in forest cover stabilization in
intervention areas; (c) strengthening of forest management; (d) improved
planning, monitoring & evaluation to enable better client focus and community
participation; and (e) reformed approach to human resource development.
Project Description.    The project has three components (i) Strengthening of
Sector Management through strengthening of policy reform, institutional and
human resource development, introducing Forest Management Information System;
and supporting Project Management, (ii) Strengthening of Forest Management
through improving management of natural forests, introducing participatory
forest management of degraded natural forests, improving management of
industrial plantations, introducing improved quality of planting stock and
adapted research, support for homestead forestry and associated activities and
introducing an improved fire management system, and (iii) Strengthening of
Biodiversity Conservation through establishing state-wide strategic approach
to conservation, strengthening sustainability of Protected Area (PA) system,
improving scientific knowledge and public support and expanding Village
Ecodevelopment.
Project Implementation.    Kerala Forest Department (KFD) would be the main



implementing agency for the project under the overall leadership of the
Principal Chief Conservator of Forests. A Project Steering and Finance
Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary has been established for overall
policy guidance to project management during implementation and for
safeguarding availability and flow of funds to the project. The Project Cell
(PC) headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests would be responsible for
coordination of all project funded activities in accordance with the time-
bound action plan.
Project Cost and Financing. The estimated total project cost of US$ 47.0
million equivalent would be financed by an IDA credit of US$ 39.0 million
equivalent, Government of Kerala contribution of US$ 7.5 million equivalent
and Beneficiary contribution of US$ 0.5 million equivalent.
Environmental and Social Aspects. The project has been rated under
environment assessment category "B" having an overall positive environmental
impact. This will be achieved by mitigating the pressure on natural forest
areas, control of fires, improving and assisting natural re-generation,
supporting biodiversity conservation and initiating PFM and increasing forest
produce.
Under the project, activities will be carefully targeted to address
poverty and create assets and income for the poor. In order to sustain PFM
and Eco-development programs, KFD has adopted a clear approach towards
development and introduction of participatory forestry in the state. To
remove any form of gender bias, the project hopes to institutionalize women's
participation through their representation as stakeholder group in the VSS and
their involvement in micro-planning of activities beneficial to women.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 2 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-3-



