Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3053 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Kerala Forestry Project)
between
INDIA
and  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3053 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1998, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a letter dated January 7, 1998, from 
the State of Kerala describing sector reforms that constitute the framework for 
improving the forestry sector in Kerala, including policy, institutional, technical 
and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy Reform Program), and 
declaring Kerala’s commitment to carry out such Policy Reform Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Kerala (Kerala) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Kerala the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the 
Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Forest Schedule of Rates” means approved rates and quantities of labor 
per unit of forestry and related works;
(b)
“ha” means hectare; 
(c)
“Kerala” means the State of Kerala, a State of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto;
(d)
“KFD” means the Kerala Forest Department and any successor thereto;
(e)
“KFDC” means Kerala Forest Development Corporation;
(f)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations;
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Page  3
Kerala of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)
“Project Cell” means the unit established within KFD for assisting in the 
implementation of the Project;
(i)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the implementation plan for the 
Project prepared by Kerala, dated November 30 1997, and, including time-bound action 
plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Association;
(j)
“Project Preparation Advances” means the two Project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters between 
the Borrower and the Association dated (i) June 20, 1996 and July 24, 1996, and (ii) 
December 23, 1997 and January 14, 1998, respectively;
(k)
“Protected Area or PA” means any sanctuary or national park declared as a 
protected area by Kerala in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Wildlife 
Act, 1972, as amended to date; and
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be canceled.
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2008 and ending March 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2018 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Kerala to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Kerala therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Kerala to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
Page  5
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, to Kerala 
in a prompt and efficient manner all clearances and approvals required for the purpose 
of enabling Kerala to carry out the activities included in the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Kerala in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to 
the states of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by Kerala pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures be 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account audited for each fiscal 
year in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  6
(a)
Kerala shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
Kerala shall have failed to carry out the Policy Reform Program or a 
significant part thereof.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Kerala will be able to (i) perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; or (ii) carry out the Policy Reform Program or a significant part 
thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
Kerala shall select, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, consultants to assist in the carrying out of the 
forest sector management study under Part A 1 (b) of the Project.
(b)
Kerala shall appoint a finance systems designer, a procurement agent, and 
a manager for forest management information system for the Project Cell, referred to 
in paragraph 15 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(c)
Kerala shall designate the key implementation staff referred to in 
paragraph 16 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Kerala and is legally binding upon Kerala in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  7
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, 
India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
2,100,000
85%
(2)
Forestry works under
9,700,000
85%
Parts B 1 (except Part
B 1 (a) (ii)), B 4, B 5,
B 6 and C (except Part
C 4) of the Project
(3)
Teak plantations under
  600,000
50%
Part B 3 (i) of the Project
(4)
Pulpwood plantations under
2,300,000
85%
Part B 3 (ii) of the Project,
and bamboo, reeds and canes
Page  8
rehabilitation under Part B 1
(a) (ii) of the Project
(5)
Participatory forestry works
1,600,000
85%
under Parts B 2 and C 4 of 
the Project
(6)
Equipment, materials
3,900,000
100% of foreign 
and vehicles 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items purchased
locally
(7)
Incremental 1,300,000
80% through 
operating costs
March 31, 2000,
50% through
March 31, 2001,
and 30% thereafter
(8)
Consultants’ 3,600,000
100%
services (including
NGOs’ services) and
training 
(9)
Refunding of
  700,000
Amounts due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advances
Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement
(10)  Unallocated
3,000,000
_________
TOTAL
      28,800,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of additional buildings, equipment and vehicles incurred for the purposes 
of carrying out the Project, as well as salaries for Project Cell staff and Project 
related travel costs;
(d)
the terms “forestry works”, “teak plantation”, and “pulpwood plantation” 
mean expenditures for: (i) land preparation, (excluding land purchase) including 
labor, inputs for tree plantations, maintenance and protection, and development of 
nurseries, seed production areas, clonal seed orchards, and multiplication gardens; 
and (ii) direct supervision costs related thereto not exceeding 18% of the total costs 
under (i) above; and
(e)
the term “bamboo, reeds and cane rehabilitation” means expenditures for 
silvicultural operations including labor, inputs for planting as an understorey, 
maintenance and protection and development of nurseries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
Page  9
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,300,000 may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after January 31, 1998; and
(b)
for industrial plantations treatments under Part B 3 of the Project, 
under Categories (3) and (4), until a revolving fund with two separate accounts, one 
for teak and the other for pulpwood plantations, has been established, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the purpose of financing the replanting, maintenance and 
harvesting of the plantations.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods or works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 
equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and 
fellowships; (d) works procured under force account and community participation 
procedures; and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Kerala in arresting the retrograde 
trend in forest cover development and improving forest productivity in an 
environmentally and socially sustainable manner, as a first phase of long-term support 
to the forest sector in Kerala.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Sector Management 
1.
Policy Reform, Institutional Development and Human Resources Development
(a)
Policy Reform: Carrying out, with the assistance of consultants’ 
services, studies on the effects of (i) price control and subsidies on the sustainable 
development of bamboos and reeds; and (ii) price and marketing control on the 
sustainable development of non-timber forest products.
(b)
Institutional Development: Carrying out, with the assistance of 
consultants’ services, of a forest sector management study, covering both KFD and 
KFDC.
(c)
Human Resources Development: (i) upgrading of human resources development 
approach through a study on training needs assessment, and creation of a human 
resources database; and (ii) improvement of the management of training through 
provision of civil works, equipment, training of trainers, and financial management 
training.  
2.
Forest Sector Information Development
(a)
Forest Management Information System (FMIS): Development of FMIS, 
including geographical information system, through provision of hardware and software, 
ancillary equipment, remote sensing imagery, consultants’ services, training and 
incremental staff.
(b)
Working Plans and Forest Inventory: Development of modern working plans 
for KFD based on new forest inventory through provision of consultants’ services.
3.
Support to Project Management  
Strengthening KFD and its Project Cell through (i) provision of specialist 
services, vehicles, equipment, including computers, civil works and incremental 
operating costs, and (ii) development of a computerized financial management system.
Part B:
Forest Management
Page  10
1.
Management of Natural Forests
(a)
Less Disturbed Natural Forests: (i) Promotion of assisted natural forest 
regeneration over an area of about 23,000 ha through silvicultural tending of existing 
seedlings and viable rootstock, including gap planting where necessary; and 
(ii) rehabilitation of about 4,700 ha through planting and tending of bamboos, reeds 
and canes.
(b)
Degraded Natural Forests: Rehabilitation of degraded natural forests of 
about 9,000 ha through combined promotion of natural regeneration and artificial 
regeneration.
2.
Participatory Forestry Management (PFM)
Implementation of a pilot PFM program between KFD and local forest communities 
involving 86 settlements in degraded natural forest areas through combined promotion 
of natural regeneration and artificial regeneration, based on village microplans 
developed through community participatory planning.
3.
Industrial Plantations
Development of about 5,500 ha of industrial plantations comprising (i) an area 
of about 1,800 ha for teak plantations, and (ii) an area of about 3,700 ha for 
pulpwood plantations, both on reserve forest land using improved planting materials 
and plantation management practices.
4.
Planting Stock Improvement and Applied Research
(a)
Improving the quality of seed handling through the provision of equipment 
and consultants’ services.
(b)
Improving seed production and reproduction materials through raising of 
seed orchards and clonal multiplication areas.
(c)
Establishment of six modern nurseries, and provision of nursery 
technology training and vehicles.
(d)
Carrying out of applied research in forest technologies through 
consultants’ services.
5.
Homestead Forestry and Associated Activities
(a)
Carrying out of a pilot forestry extension program in six districts 
through provision of training to district forestry extension staff, extension 
materials, equipment and vehicles, and quality planting materials.
(b)
Carrying out of tree planting in about 300 ha of public lands.
(c)
Carrying out of studies in the area of incentives of tree growing by 
farmers.
(d)
Expansion and rehabilitation of the Kalady Forestry Study Center through 
provision of civil works, equipment and materials
6.
Forest Fire Management System
Strengthening KFD’s fire management program in five divisions through 
(i) provision of equipment and vehicles, civil works, training and public awareness 
campaign; and (ii) preparation and implementation of fire management plans.
Part C:
Biodiversity Management
1.
Strategic Planning
Preparation, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of a statewide 
strategic approach to biodiversity conservation in Kerala.
Page  11
2.
Research, Training and Public Awareness
(a)
Carrying out of research into park issues, including non-timber forest 
products and sacred groves.
(b)
Provision of training for foresters and forest guards in wildlife 
management.
(c)
Carrying out of environmental awareness programs through provision of 
civil works, equipment and vehicles, and educational programs and devices. 
3.
Sustainability of Protected Area (PA)
(a)
Provision of training to KFD staff on biodiversity conservation 
techniques.
(b)
Upgrading of infrastructure and provision of communication and other 
equipment for PA staff.
(c)
Preparation, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of PA-specific 
management plans, and implementation of such plans.
4.
Village Ecodevelopment
(a)
Support for an ecodevelopment program, based on village microplans, 
consisting of the development, with the involvement of NGOs, of alternative resources, 
or income generating opportunities for about 40 communities resident in village areas 
peripheral to the two PAs of Chinnar and Neyyar, including provision of works and 
equipment.
(b)
Provision of training and field operation support for ecodevelopment 
planning teams.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
Page  12
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if at any time the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if at any time the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Page  13
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
