Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3053 IN
Project Agreement
(Kerala Forestry Project)
between 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KERALA
Dated August 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3053 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF KERALA (Kerala), acting by its 
Governor.
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a letter dated January 7, 1998, from 
the State of Kerala describing sector reforms that constitute the framework for 
improving the forestry sector in Kerala, including policy, institutional and 
administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy Reform Program), and declaring 
Kerala’s commitment to carry out such Policy Reform Program;
(B)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,800,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Kerala agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement and in this Agreement; 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Kerala with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Kerala the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS Kerala, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kerala declares its commitment to the objective of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through KFD, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Kerala shall otherwise agree, Kerala shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Kerala shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Kerala shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Kerala shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Kerala of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Kerala shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Kerala and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Kerala on such plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Kerala shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
Page  3
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of Kerala 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Kerala shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Kerala shall establish not later than March 31, 1999, a financial 
management system for Project accounting, with specifications and output satisfactory 
to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation
and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Kerala thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Kerala of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
Page  4
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
              248423 (MCI)
Washington, DC  
        64145 (MCI)
For Kerala:
Chief Secretary
Government of Kerala
Trivandrum
Kerala, India
Telex:
       0435-6233 SECT IN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Kerala may be 
taken or executed by the Chief Secretary of Kerala or such other person or persons as 
Kerala shall designate in writing, and Kerala shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director,
India
STATE OF KERALA
By /s/ Lizzie Jacob 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Kerala shall prepare, not later than December 31 of each year, starting 1998, an 
annual implementation program, satisfactory to the Association, for the Project 
activities.
2.
Kerala shall, not later than December 31, 1998, revise its Forest Schedule of 
Rates keeping in view the prevailing market wage rates to make payments to the labor 
hired for all field forestry operations.
3.
Kerala shall, not later than December 31, 1999, complete the Forest Sector 
Management Study under Part A 1 (b) of the Project, and not later than June 30, 2000, 
Page  5
furnish to the Association a time-based plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
implementation of the agreed recommendations of the study.
4.
Kerala shall, not later than June 30, 2000, prepare and review with the 
Association the human resources development plan under Part A 1 (c) of the Project, 
linked to the proposed changes recommended by the Forest Sector Management Study 
referred to in paragraph 3 above, and shall, not later than December 31, 2000, 
initiate implementation of the agreed plan.
5.
Kerala shall submit to the Association, for the Association’s review and 
comments, prior to implementation and not later than September 30, 1998, the first 
three (i) microplans for participatory forest management under Part B 2 of the 
Project, and (ii) village ecodevelopment microplans under Part C 4 of the Project.
6.
Kerala shall ensure that area-associated investments are only carried out after 
finalization of the respective (i) site specific plans for natural forest treatments 
and industrial plantation treatments under Parts B 1 and B 3 of the Project, (ii) 
village microplans for the participatory forest management program under Part B 2 of 
the Project, and (iii) village microplans for the village ecodevelopment program under 
Part C 4 of the Project.
7.
Kerala shall (i) select the treatment sites under Parts B 1 and B 3 of the 
Project in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association, and (ii) develop the 
industrial plantations under Part B 3 of the Project using improved planting 
materials, silvicultural practices and protection satisfactory to the Association.
8.
Kerala shall take all the necessary measures to abolish the subsidies for supply 
of pulp raw materials to forest industries by 20% every year, starting September 1, 
1999, in accordance with a formula agreed with the Association.
9.
Kerala shall (i) carry out the applied forestry research under Part B 4 (d) of 
the Project based on a strategic plan to be furnished to, and agreed with, the 
Association not later than November 30, 1999, and (ii) designate not later than 
December 31, 1999, research oriented staff for assisting in carrying out such 
research.
10.
Kerala shall take all the necessary measures to promote tree planting on public 
lands under Part B 5 (b) of the Project.
11.
Kerala shall ensure that adequate operational funds are made available to the 
Kalady Forestry Study Center on a timely basis, upon completion of its expansion and 
rehabilitation under Part B 5 (d) of the Project.
12.
Kerala shall (i) select the staff for overseas training in consultation with the 
Association, and (ii) post such staff upon completion of the training for at least 
three years in areas in which training was received.
13.
Kerala shall, without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, implement a system satisfactory to the Association for channeling the funds 
required for the Project, to the entities involved in carrying out the Project.
14.
Kerala shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
Page  6
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
15.
Kerala shall appoint a finance systems designer, a procurement agent, and a 
manager for forest management information system for the Project Cell, all with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and shall retain until 
completion of the Project the latter two.
16.
Kerala shall designate and retain until Project completion, the following key 
implementation staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) coordinator for participatory forest management, (ii) coordinator for 
silviculture research, (iii) Project coordinator in KFDC, (iv) coordinator for 
homestead forestry, (v) coordinator for ecodevelopment program, (vi) coordinator for 
biodiversity conservation program, and (vii) coordinator for fire management program.
17.
Kerala shall ensure that the Project Cell remains adequately staffed during 
Project implementation.
18.
Kerala shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
19.
(a)
Kerala shall not carry out any involuntary relocation for any of the 
communities or individuals resident within the PAs under Part C of the Project.
(b)
Any proposals for voluntary relocation of such communities or individuals 
shall be:
(i)
preceded by an independent study to assess the impact of such 
communities on 
the conservation of biodiversity in such PAs;
(ii)
prepared and implemented, in accordance with criteria agreed with 
the 
Association, and after prior approval of the Association; 
and
(iii)
monitored by an independent agency acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
Page  7
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, and 
vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, and vehicles 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Maps, aerial photography, satellite imagery costing $1,700,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works (excluding forestry works) under Parts A, B (except B 2) and C of the 
Project estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,400,000 equivalent, and works under Part B 2 of the Project 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of $2,800,000, may be procured either 
(i) under lump-sum, admeasurement contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully, or (ii) under community participation provision, with village 
communities or NGOs, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines, and with the Association’s prior agreement, or (iii) with prior approval 
of the Association through force account in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
5.
Force Account
Forestry works under Parts B 4, B 5 and B 6 of the Project which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $2,000,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
Forestry works under Part B of the Project (other than those carried out under 
paragraph 5 above) and forestry works under Part C of the Project estimated to cost up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,200,000 equivalent shall be procured through 
community participation procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15 (iii) of the 
Guidelines and the Forest Schedule of Rates, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  8
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent but more than 
$20,000 equivalent, the following procedures shall apply: (A) prior to the selection 
of any supplier or contractor, KFD shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (B) prior to the execution of any 
such contract, KFD shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and (C) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ or NGOs services for technical assistance which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  9
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
