Report No. 831a-CR                                                            FL                COP Y
Costa Rica
Appraisal of a
Fourth Highway Project
December 15, 1975
Latin America and Caribbean
Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Units:  Colon (0)  =  100 centavos
US$1                          =   08.60
0 1                           =  US$0.12
0 1 million                   =   us$116.279
Weights and Measures:
,Metric                            British/US equivalents
1 meter (m)                   =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2           0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)                0.98 long ton/l.l US short ton
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT         - Annual Average Daily Traffic
BEL          - Baltodano, Echande y Lara (Costa Rica), consultants
BPR          - United States Bureau of Public Roads, now the Federal Highway
Administration
CABEI        -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
EK           -  Edwards and Kelcey Engineers (US), consultants
ER           -  Economic Return
FYR          -  First Year Return
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM         -  Instituto de Fomento y Asesoria Municipal ,
INCOP        -  Instituto Costarricense de Puertos del Pacifico
ITCO         -  Instituto de Tierras y Colonizaci6n
JAPDEVA      -  Junta de Adminstracion Portuaria y de Desarrollo
Econ6mico de la Vertiente Atlantica
LACSA        -  Lineas Aereas Costarricenses, S.A.
MOPT         -  ivinisterio de Obras Publicas y Transportes (Ministry of Public
Works and Transport)
DGV        - Direccion General de Vialidad (Costa Rica Highway Department)
DGEM       - General Directorate of Equipment and Machinery
DGO        - General Directorate of Operations
DGTA       -  Direccion General de Transporte Automotor
TSPO       -  Transport Sector Planning Office (Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion
del Sector Transportes)
OECA         -  Organizacion de Estados Centroamericanos
OFIPLAN      - Oficina de Planificacion Nacional y Politica Economica (National
Planning Office)
TAMS/DYPSA   -  TAMS Ingenieria S.A. (US), Disenos y Proyectos, S.A. (Costa Rica) -
consultants
USAID        - United States Agency for International Development



COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................    i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION         ..................................                  1
2.   BACKGROUND          ..................................                   2
A.   General ............................................               2
B.   The Transport Sector ...............................               2
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ....            ..............   5
3.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ...................................                7
A.   The Highway Network ................................               7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic            .........    7
C.   Highway Planning and Financing .....................               7
D.   Highway Administration .............................               8
E.   Highway Engineering ................................               9
F.   Highway Construction ...............................               9
G.   Highway Maintenance ...............................                9
4.   THE PROJECT .............................................               10
A. General Description .10
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements                       13
C. Execution .15
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ..16
A. General .16
B.   Construction of the San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres and
Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo Highway .16
C. Other Project Components .22
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .23
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. S. Hertel and P. Morris
(Engineers) and J. Veniard (Economist) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Public Investment (Transportation)
2.   Development of the Highway Network
3.   Vehicle Registration
4.   Vehicle Fuel Consumption
5.   Highway Expenditures 1966-1980
6.   Highway Sources of Funds 1965-1978
7.   Road User Charges
8.   Design Standards for Project Roads
9.   Proposed Technical Assistance in Transport Planning by Function
10.   Cost Estimates
11.   Comparison and Economic Returns of Alternative Routes Between
San Jose, Siquirres and Puerto Viejo
12.   San Jose-Siquirres-Puerto Viejo Highway Traffic Flows (AADT)
13.   Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs
14.   Summary of Agricultural Value Added for Selected Years
15.   Economic Evaluation Results of Road Sections
ANNEXES
1.   Highway External Financing by Agencies Other than the
Bank Group
2.   Schedule of Disbursements
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
h.  Estimation of the Agricultural Value Added
5.   Probability Analysis of the Economic Rate of Return
CHARTS
I.   Organization Chart of the General Directorate of Highways
II.   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MAP
IBRD 11661 - Costa Pica, Fourth Highway Project



COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The prime traffic mode in Costa Rica is road transport.  The high-
way network, comprising about 2,400 km of national and regional highways and
20,700 km of secondary and feeder roads, is generally of low geometric standard,
and large parts of the country lack roads completely. The railway network,
totaling about 1,030 km, services all banana traffic, but only a small part
of other freight and passenger traffic. Air transport has limited importance
for domestic traffic.
ii.       The capital, San Jose, is linked to the towns of Siquirres and
Puerto Viejo by roads of poor standard. A new road, financed by the Bank,
from Siqtuirres to the Atlantic 1/ port of Limon (Loan 664-CR) was completed
in December 1975. Under a Bank Highway Studies Project (Loan 872-CR), the
feasibility of improving the existing roads linking San Jose with Siquirres
and with Puerto Viejo was compared with that of constructing new roads in com-
pletely new alignments serving rich agricultural land, presently with poor
means of transportation. The latter alternative proved more feasible econo-
mically, and the construction of these new two-lane highways, totaling about
125 km, including consulting services for supervision, forms the main part of
this proposed Fourth Highway Project.
iii.      This proposed project would also provide for the establishment of
weighing stations and the purchase of portable scales, and vehicles and equip-
ment for supervision of the civil works. Consulting services are also in-
cluded for technical assistance for transport planning and for preparation
of an urban transport project in the capital, San Jose.
iv.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) and would extend over a period of about
four years.
v.        The civil works would be procured by international competitive bid-
ding in compliance with Bank Guidelines. The construction would consist of
a number of contracts, and bidders would have the opportunity to bid for one
or several contracts according to their capacity. The weighing bridges,
portable weighing scales and vehicles and equipment, in aggregate amounting
to less than US$0.3 million equivalent, would be procured through local
suppliers in accordance with Government competitive bidding procedures, which
are acceptable to the Bank.
1/   Following Costa Rican usage, the Caribbean sea is referred to throughout
this report as the "Atlantic".



- ii -
vi.       Quantifiable benefits from the construction elements of the project
would derive from savings in vehicle operating costs and from increased agri-
cultural production. On conservative assumptions, the economic return of the
construction element as a whole would be 18%.
vii.      The project is estimated to cost US$74.0 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of US$50.7 million. The proposed loan would
finance US$39.0 million equivalent of the foreign exchange component. The
remaining foreign exchange costs and all of local currency costs would be
met by the Government; an appropriate term for the loan would be 25 years,
including a five-year grace period.



COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Costa Rica has requested the Bank to assist in
financing a project consisting of:  (a) construction, including supervision,
of a new 125-km two-lane national highway; (b) establishment of weighing
stations and the purchase of portable scales and vehicles and equipment for
supervision; and (c) consulting services for (i) technical assistance for
transport planning and (ii) preparation of an urban transport project in the
capital, San Jose. The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at
about US$74.0 million equivalent. The total estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent is US$50.7 million equivalent. Of the total project, US$39.0 million
equivalent would be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The balance, US$35.0
million equivalent, would be provided by the Government.
1.02      This would be the Fourth Highway Project financed by the Bank in
Costa Rica. The first (Loan 299-CR/Cr 10-CR, US$11.0 million) was made in
1961 to assist in financing the first stage (630 km) of the National Highway
Program and also included maintenance and construction equipment; the US
Bureau of Public Roads 1/ (BPR) provided technical assistance to the project.
Progress on the project lagged, but a reduced program of 510 km of roads was
satisfactorily completed in 1968. The delays were due to a shortage of local
funds and to the inability of the local contracting industry to handle the
large number of small contracts involved, international contractors having
shown little interest.
1.03      In 1970, a second Bank project (Loan 664-CR, US$15.7 million) was
undertaken comprising, essentially, construction of a new 57-km two-lane
highway between Siquirres (which is linked to San Jose by an existing road)
and Limon, Costa Rica's main Atlantic port. Construction progressed gener-
ally satisfactorily, and the road was completed in December 1975, some ten
months behind the original schedule. There was a bid overrun of about 30%
in relation to the appraisal estimate but, due to the devaluation, in 1974,
of the colon in relation to the US dollar, final costs are expected to ex-
ceed the original estimate by only about 20%. Originally, this project also
included a feasibility study for an improved highway link between San Jose
and Siquirres, but this feasibility study was subsequently removed from the
project and combined with detailed engineering to form the Highway Studies
Project (para. 1.04).
1.04      At the end of 1972, the Bank made a US$1.4 million loan for a High-
way Studies Project (Loan 872-CR) covering (a) a feasibility study for improv-
ing the road links between San Jose with Siquirres and Puerto Viejo or con-
structing new ones; and (b) detailed engineering for the most economically
1/   Now the Federal Highway Administration.



- 2 -
feasible highway alternative. The feasibility study, which demonstrated the
economic advantage of constructing new roads, was finished in late 1973.
Detailed engineering for the new road was substantially completed by the end
of 1974, and, together with the feasibility study, has formed the basis of
this proposed Fourth Highway Project. The main element in the proposed
project is the construction, including supervision, of these roads.
1.05      The proposed project was appraised by Messrs. S. Hertel (Engineer)
and J. Veniard (Economist) in December 1974. The report has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Costa Rica has an area of 51,000 km2.  Its main cities, and over
half its population, are in the elevated and climatically equable Central
Valley, where most of the emerging industrial activity is located and the bulk
of the country's coffee is produced. The mountainous terrain surrounding the
Central Valley has created a communications problem with the rest of the
country, where, in a very hot and generally very wet climate, the important
banana crop is grown. The tropical areas have potential for timber and cattle
production, as yet largely untapped because of the lack of communication. The
population of Costa Rica was close to 1.9 million in 1973. The population
growth rate averaged 3.2% p.a. during the period 1960 to 1973, but fell to
2.6% during 1974.
2.02      Between 1966 and 1974, GDP grew at about 6.3% per year in constant
prices, or 3.4% per capita. GDP per capita, which was estimated at about
US$710 in 1973, is the highest, and the most evenly distributed, per capita
income in Central America. In 1973, 21% of GDP originated in agriculture,
25% in manufacturing and construction and 54% in transport, trade and other
private and Government services. Coffee and bananas are the main export
items; next in importance are beef, sugar, textiles and cacao, in that order.
B.   The Transport Sector
(i) General
2.03      Transport plays an important role in the economy of Costa Rica be-
cause of its heavy reliance on export crops and the growing volumes of imported
basic raw materials and manufactured goods. Increase of regional trade and the
need to open up new lands for productive use are becoming more important. The
country, however, has topographical and climatic features which make the pro-
vision of the necessary transport facilities both difficult and costlv.
2.04      Railways primarily serve the traffic needs of the banana and cacao
plantations and, in the case of the South Pacific and Atlantic regions,
provided, until recently, the only means of transportation. However, over the



last two decades, highways have become the main form of internal transportation.
This is due in part to the need to open up areas not served by the railways,
but, more importantly, to the fact that highway transport is more appropriate
for the generally short transport hauls involved as well as to the absence of
large volumes of bulk traffic (except bananas) suitable for haulage by rail.
In 1973, road transport carried about 86% of all ton-km generated in the coun-
try and about 98% of all pass-km, while the railways carried about 11.5% of the
ton-km and less than 2% of the pass-km. The remaining traffic was moved by air
transport and coastal shipping. Oil products are carried by a 123-km pipeline
from the refinery on the Atlantic Coast near Limon to the terminal station near
San Jose, the capital. Pipeline transport accounts for 2.5% of all ton-km
generated in the country. Capital investments in the sector follow the same
trends as traffic, with the highway subsector accounting for the largest por-
tion (Table 1).
(ii) Highways and Highway Transport
2.05      The highway system and its administration are described in detail
in Chapter 3.
(iii) Railways
2.06      In addition to a short length of railway close to the Panama border
on the Atlantic coast and operated from Panama, there are three independently
operated railway systems in Costa Rica:
Length (km operated)
1.   INCOP /1 (Pacific) Railway                  162
2.   JAPDEVA /2 (Atlantic) Railway              581
3.   Compania Bananera de Costa Rica             288
1,031
/1   Instituto Costarricense de Puertos del Pacifico.
/2   Junta de Administracion Portuaria y de Desarrollo
Economico de la Vertiente Atlantica.
The INCOP and JAPDEVA railways are Government-owned. The Compania Bananera
line is owned by a private company for use on its banana plantations.
(a) INCOP (Pacific) Railway
2.07      The INCOP railway, which connects San Jose and Puntarenas, is the
only electrified railway in Central America; it is an autonomous Government
agency and a common carrier. Freight traffic on this line increased from
361,000 tons in 1965 to 436,000 tons in 1973, at an annual rate of 2.5%.
Passenger traffic in the same period increased from 725,000 to 871,000 at an
annual rate of 2.4%. The average length of freight haul is about 85 km. Most
of the physical plant is old, but in good condition. The main problem facing
the railway is that of heavy grades on large sections of the track and poor



- 4 -
alignment, which limits the average speed and carrying capacity of the trains.
In an effort to improve the railway, INCOP recently undertook an evaluation
study with the intention of embarking on a rehabilitation program in the near
future. A draft report was presented to INCOP by consultants in October 1974,
proposing an investment plan of 0 98.1 million. However, the study gave no
consideration to other investment alternatives, the future role of the railway,
or the economic feasibility of the proposed investments (but see paragraph
2.15).
(b)  JAPDEVA (Atlantic) Railway
2.08      The Atlantic railway, previously foreign-owned, passed to Government
ownership in 1972, 17 years before the expiration of the private company's
concession. The Government entrusted the railway operations to JAPDEVA, which
already operated the Port of Limon. The railway, operating as a common carrier,
consists of 166 km of main line between San Jose and Limon and 415 km of branch
lines in the banana plantation areas along the Atlantic Coast. Total freight
grew from 580,000 tons in 1965 to 1,371,000 tons in 1973, an increase caused
almost exclusively by the rapid expansion of banana exports. More than 50%
of the traffic now consists of bananas. The average freight haul on the line
is about 120 km. Passengers carried increased from 845,000 in 1965 to
1,771,000 in 1973.
2.09      The physical plant of the railway is in very bad condition.  The
railway alignments are extremely poor, with the result that the average speed
for freight trains between San Jose and Limon is 14 km per hour and the engine
load is limited to 400 tons with diesel traction. It is a hazardous line
subject to frequent landslides during the rainy season, closing the line for
weeks and even months at a time. In the recent past, no significant invest-
ments were made on this line, and not even minimum maintenance programs were
undertaken. JAPDEVA has now embarked upon a study of a comprehensive moderni-
zation program. The study, financed by IDB-funded OFIPLAN's 1/ Pre-Investment
Fund, is being carried out by a consortium of firms:  Deutsche Eisenbahn
Consulting GMBH - DECONSULT (Germany) and Electroprojetos (Brazil), the same
consortium that recently carried out the INCOP (Pacific) railway modernization
study (para. 2.07).
(iv)   Ports and Waterways
2.10      The two main ports of Costa Rica are run by the same companies that
operate the railways - Limon by JAPDEVA and Puntarenas by INCOP. Limon, the
larger of the two, handled 1.2 million tons of cargo (excluding petroleum) in
1973, including 800,000 tons of banana exports. The physical condition of the
port is poor, and better facilities are long overdue. As early as 1964, a port
project had been developed at Moin, some 5 km west of Limon. However, interests
in the area felt that any further port expansion should take place at Limon
itself. A new study was contracted to the consultants TAMS (USA) in joint
1/   National Planning Office.



venture with DYPSA (Costa Rica). Their report, presented in 1969, recommended
the construction of deepwater facilities at Cienaguita, adjacent to the
present port. The project was subsequently appraised by a Bank mission in
1970. As a result of disagreements over the creation of a National Port
Authority and land and housing expropriations on the proposed port site, the
negotiations were discontinued in 1971. In the meantime, JAPDEVA contracted
with the consultants BODO-Shellhorn (Germany) to study short-term measures
to improve the capacity at Limon. This study recommended the construction
of a long breakwater to protect the port from eastern ocean swells which
prevail most of the year, impairing cargo operations. It also recommended
construction of two marginal berths on the inside of the breakwater. The
breakwater, with a total length of 700 meters, was completed in September
1974, improving port capacity considerably.
2.11      Coastal shipping operates mainly along the Pacific coast and accounts
for only about 1% of the total traffic moved. Inland waterways are few, and
present operations are insignificant. The 112-km long Canal Costanero del
Atlantico, linking Moin (near Limon) with the mouth of the Colorado River (near
the Nicaraguan border), was opened to traffic in April 1974. Constructed and
operated by JAPDEVA, the canal was built at a cost of 22 million colones, with
financial assistance from CABEI. The impact of this project upon the rich,
but presently isolated, forest region it traverses could be significant.
(v) Air Transport
2.12      Domestic air transport in Costa Rica plays a useful role in serving
isolated communities and sparsely populated areas. The largest domestic and
international air carrier registered in Costa Rica is LACSA, one-third of which
is owned by the Government. In recent years, because of road development,
demand for domestic air transport of cargo has decreased substantially.
Domestic passenger traffic, however, continued to grow at about a 4.5% annual
rate in the last five years. LACSA's domestic passenger and freight load
factors are 63% and 55%, respectively. Internationally, LACSA has performed
very well, almost doubling the number of passenger-miles between 1968 and 1973.
Juan Santamaria, about 12 km from San Jose, is the country's only international
airport and is also used for domestic flights. A two-phase expansion plan is
under way at this airport.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.13      The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) has overall author-
ity in matters of transport policy in the country. Its General Directorates
of Civil Aviation and of Ports carry that responsibility for airports and ports
as does the General Directorate of Highways (DGV) for highways. The independ-
ently operated railways (para. 2.06) carried out their policies separately up
to the June 27, 1975 decree (para. 2.15) with relatively little control exer-
cised by MOPT. MOPT's General Directorate of Automotive Transport regulates
routes and fares for all bus services. Franchises for new bus lines are open
to bids by private operators. Generally, services are efficient, rates reflect
costs and high interest is shown in establishing new services. Truck services



- 6 -
are free of any regulation of entry, routes or rates, and competition is in-
tense among the generally small size operators, but there is no excess of
trucking capacity. A few large trucking firms operate international services,
with increasing specialization by type of cargo, but they face competition
from other Central American countries. A traffic police body under the Minis-
try of Public Safety enforces traffic regulations and licensing.
2.14      Maximum dimensions and weights of motor vehicles are based on the
Central American Agreement on Highway Traffic of 1958, which was legalized in
Costa Rica in 1963. The regulations specify 8,000 kg as the maximum single
axle load and 15,000 kg as the maximum tandem axle load. This is low compared
to other countries, and a study is being performed by OECA, 1/ at the request
of Costa Rica, with a view toward updating the regulations; meanwhile, the
Government is allowing a 10% overloading. Vehicle weights are presently being
controlled efficiently at four permanent vehicle weighing stations. Three
more stations are planned, two of them forming part of this proposed project.
2.15      MOPT is responsible for transport planning.  Its Transport Sector
Planning Office (TSPO) was created by Decree No. 4956-Y of June 27, 1975, and
is charged with coordination and planning for all modes of transport. Pre-
viously, MOPT's planning office (General Directorate of Planning) coordi-
nated transport planning of modes under MOPT but had no jurisdiction over the
autonomous agencies. The creation of TSPO should now overcome the institu-
tional problems which occurred when planning for each transport mode was
generally carried out separately without due regard to intermodal relations.
This was especially true of the "non-highway" transport modes, particularly
railways and, through them, the ports of Limon and Puntarenas (para. 2.10).
Economic planning at the national level is the responsibility of OFIPLAN,
which should provide guidance, support and coordination with other sectors;
TSPO provides the link between OFIPLAN and all institutes and agencies with
activities within the transport sector. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that future investments in its transport sector
would be carried out on the basis of adequate studies demonstrating the
economic justification of such investments.
2.16      The objectives for the TSPO are to establish overall transport
planning to determine and recommend implementation of adequately justified
investment priorities (e.g. the five-year highway investment program, para-
graph 3.04), as well as to create a sound basis for intermodal coordination.
To achieve these objectives, MOPT would have to enlarge TSPO to enable it to
deal adequately and authoritatively with sector planning and intermodal
coordination. To assure the proper fulfillment by TSPO of its transport
planning duties, the project provides for the financing of technical assist-
ance, estimated to cost US$900,000 equivalent in total (US$500,000 equivalent
in foreign exchange).
1/   Organizacion de Estados Centroamericanos.



- 7 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      Costa Rica has a total highway network of about 23,100 km, of which
about 1,500 km are national, 900 km are regional and the balance are feeder
roads. About 65% of the national and regional highways, and less than 1%
of the feeder roads, are paved. Close to 14,800 km of the feeder roads (64%
of the total network) are earth roads usable only during the dry seasons
(Table 2). Major efforts were made during the last decade to extend and
improve the highway network; between 1963 and 1973, the length of the all-
weather system almost doubled. Total highway network has been growing at
4.6% annually for the last five years.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.02      Road transport has expanded rapidly in the last 10 years, and the
total vehicle fleet, consisting of 60% passenger cars, 36% trucks (including
pickups) and 4% buses, has increased by about 12% per year, reaching 86,500
vehicles in 1973 (Table 3). This represents a vehicle density of about 1
vehicle per 20 inhabitants and appears adequate to meet existing transport
demand. The truck fleet has been growing at a more rapid rate (over 14%).
There is a large variety of trucks in Costa Rica, the majority being light-
weight; only about 15% of all trucks, or 4,600, have a five-ton or more pay-
load capacity; of this group, most have an eight-ton payload.
3.03      Highway and traffic data are regularly collected and recorded by
MOPT's General Directorate of Highways (DGV). Most of the highway traffic is
centered around San Jose and in the Central Plateau. Traffic data collected
and recorded by MOPT indicate that, for the country as a whole, traffic has
been increasing at the rate of about 11% per year in the last five years.
This growth figure is well correlated with records of motor fuel consumption
(Table 4), which show that the consumption of both gasoline and diesel oil
over the period 1963-1973 has been increasing at about 11% per annum.
C.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.04      Highway investment programs are the responsibility of MOPT (DGV)
(para. 2.13). The latest program, covering the five-year period 1975-1979,
was prepared with the assistance of consultants (Capitol Engineering-US and
Espiritu Salas-CR). This is the working document which DGV uses to develop
the more detailed investment plans. The program lists a number of construction
and improvement projects, totaling about 1,300 km of roads, without providing
economic justification. It is, therefore, difficult to judge whether this
is an optimum program. The projects, with the exception of the San Jose-
Siquirres/Puerto Viejo roads, appear to be recommended either for regional
integration or merely on an individual project basis, without regard to
alternatives. Moreover, no financial analysis or pro forma budgets have
been indicated in the program.  However, within the 1975-1979 program, only



- 8 -
about 575 km of priority roads have been singled out by the DGV as a real-
istic construction plan that is within their executive capacity. (Financial
requirements of the latter plan are described in Table 6.)
3.05      Highway expenditures, comprising road construction, maintenance,
studies, equipment, highway administration and interest on foreign loans,
almost doubled between 1969 and 1974, from 0 108 to ¢ 211 million. The
highway expenditure forecast (1975 prices) shows a considerable increase in
expenditures, peaking in 1976 at ¢ 449 million (Table 5). Highway expenditures
are financed from budgetary sources. Details of such sources of funds over the
period 1965-1974 are shown in Table 6. Fifty-five percent of highway expenditures
since 1965 have been financed from external sources (Annex 1); the Bank has
provided about 18% of this external financing. Table 6 also shows a forecast
through 1979 of sources of funds for highways. For the planned highway expen-
ditures, the greater proportion (63%) is expected to come from abroad. About 36t
of the Government's l975-1979 highway investment program would be financed by
the Bank.
3.06      Highway revenues from road users amounted to 0 59.3 million in 1967
and increased to ¢ 112 million in 1972 (Table 7). About 45% came from motor
fuel taxes (diesel oil is exempt), 35% from import duties on vehicles and parts,
10% from license fees, and 10% from taxes on tires, lubricants and tolls. Be-
cause of the rapid growth of the road system, total road u!ser revenues are sub-
stantially less than present total expenditures on highways, but they appreciably
exceed current highway maintenance costs, including administration.
D.   Highway Administration
3.07      MOPT is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining all
national and regional roads in the country; it also constructs feeder roads,
but their maintenance is generally the responsibility of the municipalities.
In spite of this, MOPT, through contracts with the municipalities, has carried
out most of the feeder road maintenance work.
3.08      MOPT exercises its responsibility in the highway sector through DGV,
the General Directorate of Operations (DGO) and the General Directorate of
Equipment and Machinery (DGEM) -- see Organizational Charts I and II. The
DGV is responsible for planning, design and construction of highways and for
programming and maintenance. The DGO and the DGEM are basically responsible
for furnishing, maintaining and controlling all highway equipment and related
machinery and supplies. The Highway MIaintenance Department of DGV is well
established and equipped, following recommendations of the US Federal Highway
Administration technical assistance.
3.09      The organization of DGV has improved considerably in the last few
years. Staff and line functions have been defined. Planning, however, has
been deficient, but the recently created TSPO within MOPT (paras. 2.15 and
2.16), supported by this project's technical assistance, should ensure adequate
highway planning. Highway and traffic data are properly collected and recorded.



3.10      Traffic laws were formerly enforced through a traffic police body
which operated under MOPT's General Directorate of Automotive Transport. How-
ever, in 1970, this group was transferred to the Ministry of Public Safety,
which controls traffic regulations. MOPT has no authority over the traffic
police force.
E.   Highway Engineering
3.11      DGV is responsible for all aspects (survey, site and laboratory
investigation, feasibility studies and detailed design) of capital highway
projects. Design standards for new highways conform with modern, rational
principles. Staff shortages have made it necessary to use local consultants,
in joint venture with foreign consultants when required, for some of the
larger projects. The standard and quality of works appear adequate.
F.   Highway Construction
3.12      All highway construction is now performed by contract only; pre-
viously, feeder roads were constructed partly by force account. The quality
of works is generally satisfactory due to the efforts of Vialidad's supervisory
staff, consultants and BPR 1/ advisors. The local construction industry is
gaining experience and strength, and three or four local contractors are now
able to carry out contr'acts of up to about US$7 million. Larger contracts
have so far been handled by foreign contractors.
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of the national and regional network, and many feeder
roads, is performed by DGV. The standard of maintenance has improved recently,
but it is still inadequate. This deficiency is mainly due to the general poor
standard of the roads, which were not designed to support present-day traffic;
many of them are in need of reconstruction and/or rehabilitation. Under the
1975-1979 investment and maintenance program, considerable road rehabilitation/
improvement is envisaged, which should reduce the burden of maintenance.
Yearly budget allocations for maintenance in recent years have been about
US$1,200 per km, which, under normal circumstances, should have been adequate.
As a result of technical assistance for highway maintenance (U.S. Federal
Highway Administration), management of maintenance is improving and cost
control sections will be introduced this year.
1/   See footnote on page 1.



- 10 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a)  Construction, including supervision, of the new main highways,
San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres (about 96 km) and Rio Sucio-Puerto
Viejo (about 29 km);
(b)  Establishment of two permanent weighing stations and the
purchase of portable scales, and of vehicles and equipment
for supervision;
(c)  Consulting services for:
(i) Technical assistance for transport planning; and
(ii) Technical assistance for preparation of an urban transport
project in San Jose.
(i) Construction of New Main Highways
(a) The Existing Roads and their Condition
4.02      San Jose is presently linked with Siquirres by a 100-km long two-
lane paved road running to the south of the great central volcano area of the
central Cordillera and passing through the town of Cartago (population 35,000),
and the smaller towns of Paraiso and Turrialba (population 30,000). The exist-
ing road has poor geometric standards: (a) vertically, with numerous steep
and adverse grades (15% of the road has gradients of 9%-15%) and small radii;
and (b) horizontally, with many narrow and dangerous curves. The cross section
is irregular, with pavement widths varying between 5.5 m and 7.0 m and shoulder
widths between 0.5 m and 2.0 m. Many roadside cuts are unstable between
Turrialba and Siquirres, and roadside drainage is generally inadequate. The
pavement structure is in fair condition between San Jose and Turrialba, but
poor between Turrialba and Siquirres, with the existing paving almost lost
over long sections. Due to the poor standard and condition of the road, as
well as frequent dense fog in several areas, the road is dangerous, average
speeds are low and the capacity is restricted (current traffic volumes are
over 3,000 vehicles a day between San Jose and Paraiso, over 1,000 between
Paraiso and Eslabon and near 300, of which 45% are heavy vehicles, between
Eslabon and Siquirres); some sections are already presenting signs of con-
gestion. The road crosses the JAPDEVA railway line twice at grade level.
4.03      Puerto Viejo is presently linked with San Jose by a 95-km long two-
lane road, which passes through the town of Heredia (population 30,000) and
the smaller towns of Vara Blanca and San Miguel. The existing road is of
extremely poor geometric standard, with many steep and adverse grades (18% of
the road has gradients from 9% to 18%); its highest point is 2,025 m. The
cross section is narrow and irregular; about 80% is paved and the remaining
part is gravel. Average vehicle speeds are low.



- 11 -
(b) Feasibility Analysis of Alternative Corridors
4.04      When considering improvement of the road connection between San
Jose and Siquirres and between San Jose and Puerto Viejo, a comparative study
was made between (a) improving both existing roads and (b) constructing a
completely new road system. The area north of San Jose is characterized by
a line of volcanoes; four of these were relevant in the comparative study
(MaD IBRD 116616.  The existing San Jose-Puerto Viejo road passes between
the westernmost volcano, Poas, and its neighbor to the east, Barba; the
existing road from San Jose to Siquirres passes to the east of the eastern-
most of the chain, Turrialba. The possibility of having a more direct route
from San Jose to the "llanos" (the Atlantic plains), and still giving access
to Siquirres and Puerto Viejo, has long been recognized, and the most appro-
priate alignment for this more direct route has always been considered to lie
in the wild and almost completely unexplored area between the volcanoes Barba
and Irazu. A major advantage of having a new, more direct alignment through
the volcanic chain was held to be that this one alignment, with a bifurcation
at Rio Sucio (a) to Puerto Viejo, (b) to Siquirres, after passing through the
chain, would, in effect, simultaneously provide access to both towns, with
consequent economy in construction cost. The new alignment through the
volcanic chain proved to be the more feasible solution economically (para.
4.03 and Table 11).
(c) The Proposed Project Roads
4.05      Between San Jose and Siquirres, the new 96-km long, two-lane paved
highway would start at Route 102 1/ in northern San Jose, run northeast,
climb 500 m to 1,600 m above sea level between the volcanoes of Irazu and
Barba and then descend to the Atlantic Plain at Rio Sucio; in this mountainous
section, there would be three tunnels totaling about 800 m, one large-span
bridge and numerous smaller bridges and retaining walls. Over 19 km, the road
gradient would be 6%-7%, and climbing lanes would be provided. At Rio Sucio,
the road would divide into two branches (para. 4.04): one would run northwest
to Puerto Viejo, the other eastward to Siquirres, crossing five large rivers
on multiple large span bridges and bypassing the town of Guapiles (25,000
inhabitants). Rainfall within the area is heavy, varying from 2.5 to 4.0 m
per year. At Siquirres, the road would join the new Siquirres-Limon Highway,
which was completed in December 1975, financed under the Second Highway
Project (para. 1.03). The project includes four access roads to the major
communities bypassed by the new road. The geometric standard of the new
road corresponds to a design speed of 56 km/h in the mountainous terrain and
96 km/h in the flat Atlantic plain. The detailed design standards are shown
in Table 8. The work would involve heavy earthwork and rock excavation, and
the pavement would comprise a crushed rock base and an asphaltic concrete
1/   To be extended in the near future by about 2.5 km of four-lane arterial
road joining to the future ring-road of San Jose.



- 12 -
carpet; 1/ the major structures would be in either steel or pre-stressed
concrete. The pavement is designed for a 10-year life, after which an over-
lay of asphaltic concrete would be required. Labor-intensive construction
methods alone are not suited for this type of work; hence, a blend of labor-
intensive construction and equipment usage has been assumed. It is estimated
that the work on this section would provide employment for about 700 workers
over the construction period.
4.06      Between Rio Sucio and Puerto Viejo, the new 29-km long highway passes
over flat and lightly rolling terrain. Expected traffic on this section is
1,000 vehicles in 1979 and 3,000 vehicles in 1999, or less than one-half of the
traffic on the Rio Sucio-Siquirres section. The pavement consists of a crushed
base course and an asphaltic concrete carpet, which would be overlaid after
10 years. As for the San Jose-Siquirres section, a blend of labor-intensive
construction and equipment usage has been assumed. It is estimated that the
construction works would provide employment for about 150 workers during the
construction period.
4.07      The impact of the project on the surrounding environment has been
carefully studied to minimize ecological damage. To this end, and at the Bank's
request, the consultants BEL-EK 2/ engaged, during the project's design stage,
the services of an environmental expert, and his recommendations have been
incorporated into the design, particularly for the San Jose-Rio Sucio section,
where the alignment passes through the wild inter-volcano area.
(ii)  Establishment of Permanent Vehicle Weighing Stations and Purchase
of Portable Scales and of Vehicles and Equipment for Supervision
4.08      The project includes establishment of two permanent vehicle weighing
stations, one on the project road section, San Jose-Mata de Cafe, and the
other on the Siquirres-Limon highway. Five portable scales will be procured
for use on road sections where traffic volumes are smaller than on the main
highways. The vehicles and equipment included in the project are required
for supervision of the civil works.
(iii) Consulting Services
4.09      The project provides for the financing of foreign exchange costs for
consulting services of civil works supervision, for which a total of US$3.15
million equivalent has been provided, including training of counterpart per-
sonnel, and for technical assistance (for which a total amount of US$1.2 mil-
lion equivalent has been provided) in two areas:
1/   An alternative design with cement concrete has been made on a 10-km
subsection with heavy traffic, and contractors would be able to bid
on both alternatives.
2/   Baltodano, Echande, y Lara (Costa Rica) and Edwards and Kelcey (US).



- 13 -
(a) Transport Planning. This technical assistance would be provided to
the Government to help formulate transport policy and an invest-
ment plan for the sector. It would also (i) define transport data
required for transport planning and initiate collection of data
on a routine basis; (ii) study the collection and allocation of
road user charges as a base for the investment plans; (iii) define
methodologies for transport cost studies and project feasibility
studies; and (iv) train counterpart personnel. (Table 9 gives
estimated man-month requirements.) During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government on terms of reference for the
consultants and on the appointment to TSPO of adequate personnel
to act as counterparts.
(b) Preparation of an Urban Transport Project in San Jose. A UNDP-
assisted and Bank-executed urban transport study of San Jose,
completed in July 1975, has prepared traffic and economic feasi-
bility analyses of, and preliminary engineering for, a set of
interrelated bus priority and Central Area traffic control measures
and regulations. The improvements have been proposed by the Govern-
ment as the major elements of a possible Bank-assisted urban trans-
port project scheduled for FY1977. DGV is to prepare detailed
engineering designs and the Direccion General de Transporte Auto-
motor (DGTA) is to carry out further bus operations, traffic
engineering analyses and preparations for which technical assistance
would be required (Table 9 gives estimated man-months). During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
terms of reference for the technical assistance and on the assign-
ment of DGTA personnel to act as counterparts.
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
4.10      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$74.0 million equi-
valent, with a total foreign component of US$50.7 million equivalent. A
summary of costs follows (details are given in Table 10):



- 14 -
Foreign    Bank
¢ Million            US$ Million       Exchange   Parti-
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Component cipation
(%)
I. Civil Works/   111.8  286.2  398.0  13.00  33.30  46.30          72      26.30
II. Supervision of
Civil Works    25.8    1.3   27.1   3.00   0.15   3.15          5        0.15
III. Provision of
Weighing Sta-
tions and Pro-
curement of
Vehicles and
Equipment for
Supervision      0.1    2.6    2.7   0.02   0.30   0.32        93        0.30
IV. Technical
Assistance       4.3    6.0   10.3   0.50   0.70   1.20        58        0.70
V. Contingencies
(i) Physical,
10%       10.6   28.6   39.2   1.23   3.35   4.58         73
(ii) Price /2   47.8  110.9  158.7   5.55  12.90  18.45         70       11.55
200.4  435.6  636.0  23.30  50.70  74.00        68       39.00
/1   Including right-of-way costs.
/2   38% of I + 24% of II, III and IV.
4.11      Construction cost estimates have been based on the estimate of
BEL-EK, prepared on the basis of detailed engineering and reflecting the level
of costs as of late 1975. Estimates assume that the road construction will
be carried out by foreign contractors. 1/ The average construction cost for
all road sections in the project is US$365,000 per km, excluding supervision,
contingencies and land acquisition; including these, the cost is IJS$575,000
per km. These are reasonable costs considering that (a) about 20% of the
road is in mountainous terrain with about 800 m total of tunnels and 19 km of
climbing lanes and (b) numerous large rivers are spanned by structures, six
of which are major bridges.
4.12      Cost of supervision is based on current costs of MOPT staff and
about US$50,000 per man-year for 10 man-years of consulting services.  This
total cost of the supervision is equivalent to about 7% of construction costs.
The cost of technical assistance is based on consultants' costs of US$6,000
per man-month of expert service.
1/   However three or four local contractors have the capacity to undertake
construction of the four smaller sections (para. 4.17) (Ruta 102-Mata de
Cafe, Rio Patria-Guacimo-Siquirres and Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo) and, in
joint venture, they may well participate in several sections.



- 15 -
4.13      A contingency allowance of 10% of construction costs has been in-
cluded to allow for increases in quantities; this is considered adequate in
view of the detailed engineering carried out. Price contingencies have been
calculated for all items and amount to about 36% of total basic costs. Table
10 contains details.
4.14      The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
US$50.7 million equivalent. The proposed loan would finance US$39.0 million
equivalent of the foreign exchange component. The remaining foreign exchange
costs and all local currency costs would be met by the Government.
4.15      Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) For civil works, on the basis of 100% of direct foreign
expenditures or 57% of total expenditures;
(b) For consulting services for supervision of construction under
(a) above, on the basis of 100% of the foreign expenditures
for these services;
(c) For establishment of two weighing stations and for procurement
of vehicles and equipment for supervision, on the basis of 100%
of the foreign expenditures; and
(d) For consulting services for technical assistance for transport
planning and for preparation of an urban transport project in
San Jose on the basis of 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
these services.
4.16      Based on the foregoing, and on implementation commencing early 1976,
an estimated schedule of loan disbursement has been prepared (Annex 2). Any
funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the project would, with
the Bank's approval, be used for high priority project-related items.
C.   Execution
4.17      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPT.  Con-
tracts for civil works would be procured by international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The construction work would be
divided into six sections, and bidders would have the opportunity to bid on
one or several sections, according to their capacity. Vehicle weighing
stations and portable weighing scales, and vehicles and equipment for super-
vision, in total estimated to cost US$0.3 million, would be procured through
local suppliers in accordance with Government competitive bidding procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank. This procedure is justified by the relative-
ly small amount to be procured and the advantage of ensuring standardization.
The procurement would be subject to Bank approval.



- 16 -
4.18      Supervision of the works would be carried out jointly by MOPT
(through DGV) and consultants, local or foreign. The number and qualifications
of MOPT staff on the supervisory team, the conditions and terms of reference
of the consultants, and the nature of the working arrangements between MOPT
and the consultants were agreed with the Government during negotiations.
4.19      To carry out the technical assistance, consultants acceptable to the
Bank would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.20      A schedule for project implementation was agreed during negotiations.
The schedule, including an indication of Bank involvement, is given in Annex 3.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      This economic evaluation concentrates on the construction of the
San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres and Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo highway (which, in-
cluding supervision, would represent about 93% of the estimated project
cost, with an economic return on the investment of about 18%); quantifiable
benefits are discussed in detail, and an indication is provided of the non-
quantifiable benefits which would result from the investment. A qualitative
assessment only is made of the proposed investments in the other components
of the project.
B.   Construction of the San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siguirres and Rio Sucio-Puerto
Viejo Highway
(i) General
5.02      The proposed 96-km San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres highway, together
with the 29-km Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo connnection, will be part of the basic
trunk road system of Costa Rica. This road completes the 57-km Siquirres-
Limon highway (Loan 664-CR) already under construction. The completion of
the San Jose-Limon highway would provide the first road link from the capital
to the seaport on the Atlantic (previously dependent on rail connections),
a link that is of particular importance for the development of exports and
the opening and development of new agricultural areas that would be served.
The construction of this project can be expected to produce benefits by:
(a) reducing operating costs to road users and providing all-weather
service to areas previously isolated, thus further stimulating
their development;
(b) facilitating the access to new agricultural and forested areas,
thus stimulating the full development of their productive capacity;
and



- 17 -
(c) reducing road maintenance costs on the existing roads. 1/
5.03      In selecting the project roads alignment, a comparative economic and
technical feasibility analysis of improving the existing San Jose-Siquirres
road (through Turrialba) and San Jose-Puerto Viejo road (through Ileredia)
was undertaken (para. 4.04). Table 11 shows that the proposed highwlay
(central corridor) provides the least transport cost alternative between
San Jose, Siquirres and Puerto Viejo. The proposed highway showed not only
a higher economic return (ER) (18% against 13% for improving the existing
road) but also presented a better technical solution while, at the same time,
providing road access to extensive areas of good agricultural potential
heretofore isolated. In addition, construction cost estimates for the
proposed project are about 20% lower than those for improving the existing
roads, which have very poor geometric standards and would need substantial
works in order to increase their capacity to carry the forecast traffic.
Some of the existing traffic that serves towns and points along these routes
will remain, requiring continued, although reduced, maintenance of the exist-
ing re-ads.
5.04      An alternative for meeting the traffic demand in the San Jose-
Siquirres corridor would involve a considerable expansion in the capacity
*of the JAPDEVA (Atlantic) Railway. However, its physical limitations, as
described in paragraph 2.09, would make major improvements of the line
between San Jose and Siquirres expensive and, thus, difficult to justify.
Even if the railway were improved, the type of traffic expected to be dev-
eloped by the project (passengers and less-than-carload freight), compounded
by the much longer rail route to San Jose 2/, would still make road services
more suitable to satisfy the demand.
5.05      The area of influence of the project road would cover some 4,000
km2 of the rich Atlantic plains between Puerto Viejo and Siquirres. Although
the San Jose-Rio Sucio section is also part of the project, its direct agri-
cultural development impact over adjacent areas is negligible. The highway
traverses rugged terrain on this section between the Irazu and Barba volcanos
in an area covered, particularly on the northern slope, by dense forest.
There are plans to convert this extensive area into a Government forest
reserve. 3/ The area along the Puerto Viejo-Rio Sucio-Siquirres project
road is presently under partial cultivation and has great potential for
development given its available natural resources. To the west of Rio Sucio
(Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo section), the region is sparsely developed. Transport
I/   However, overall, road maintenance costs would increase because of the
new highways added to the system.  These costs have been incorporated
in the calculations of economic return.
2/   Distance between Guapiles and San Jose, 59 km by proposed highway; 136
km by Atlantic railway.
3/   The 104,000 hectares "Reserva Forestal de la Cordillera Volcanica
Central".



- 18 -
infrastructure is almost non-existent in this section except for the access
to Puerto Viejo from the west (San Jose-Puerto Viejo existing road) and a
dry-weather road connecting Puerto Viejo with Rio Frio. The area population
is about 20,000. To the east of Rio Sucio (Rio Sucio-Siquirres section),
the region has achieved a somewhat higher level of development, originally
based on the expansion of the Guapiles-Siquirres rail line, and, particularly
since 1963, on the establishment of large banana plantations. The area popu-
lation is estimated4at about 50,000, with half of it in the town of Guapiles,
the commercial center of the region. The region from Guapiles to the east
is dependent upon the JAPDEVA (Atlantic) railway for transport services but
otherwise lacks surface transport connections with the rest of the country.
5.06      Bananas, livestock and forestry are the main activities in the area.
Banana plantations occupy close to 15,000 hectares, most of which are in the
hands of small independent growers. This activity generates about 25 million
boxes (in 1974) for export, which is transported over the JAPDEVA railway to the
port of Limon. Banana exports are expected to continue to use the railway
after the road project is built. Forestry, livestock and farming, however,
are expected to be considerably influenced by the proposed road. Today over
60% of the land is occupied by dense forest. There were about 140,000 head of
livestock in 1971, and principal crops among the wide range grown in the area
were corn, cassava, plantains and pineapple. Surplus production of these major
crops from the area is usually marketed in the central valley region, while
minor crops such as oranges, sugar cane, coffee and cacao are consumed locally.
Forestry has traditionally been an unorganized activity, resulting from land
clearing activities. Production is processed in the San Jose region and the
Turrialba, particularly if it is for export. Local needs are filled by 21
small sawmills.
(ii) Traffic
5.07      Existing traffic volumes on the roads between San Jose-Siquirres and
San Jose-Puerto Viejo were established through traffic surveys conducted in
1972 by MOPT at the request of the consultants BEL-EK. On the San Jose-
Siquirres road, traffic averaged about: 2,740 vehicles per day (33% heavy)
in the San Jose-Paraiso section; 910 vehicles per day (33% heavy) in the
Paraiso-Eslabon section; and 210 vehicles per day in the Eslabon-Siquirres
section. Annual growth rates for the 1965-1972 period averaged 11.9 for the
total San Jose-Siquirres road. On the San Jose-Puerto Viejo road, traffic
averaged about 320 vehicles per day (32% heavy vehicles) in the San Jose-Vara
Blanca section (counted past Heredia), 170 vehicles per day (36% heavy
vehicles) in the Vara Blanca-San Miguel section and 140 vehicles per day
(39% heavy vehicles) in the San Miguel-Puerto Viejo section. Annual growth
rates for the 1965-1972 period averaged 5.7% for the total San Jose-Puerto
Viejo section.
5.08      A numerical model based on regional economic parameters was used by
the consultants in the development of traffic forecasts. This approach was
necessary because of the complexity of the road network being considered and
was particularly necessary to forecast traffic in those areas where no roads
exist. Traffic predictions resulting from this model were calibrated with



- 19 -
an existing developed area, and the calibration came within 10% of the actual
counts, which is acceptable. Traffic data from the consultants' model have
been averaged for the three basic road sections considered throughout this
report (Table 12).
5.09      Estimates of total traffic, made on the assumption that the three road
"legs" in the Y-configuration (para. 4.04) would be opened at the same time,
indicate traffic levels from 1,000 vehicles per day (AADT) in the Rio Sucio-
Puerto Viejo section to near 3,200 AADT in the San Jose-Rio Sucio section in
1980.  Diverted traffic accounts for about 45% of the traffic on the Rio
Sucio-Siquirres section and 76% on the Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo section. The
remaining traffic would be generated by the new highways and would be composed
of traffic developed by the opening of new agricultural areas and by increased
economic activities as a result of the highways. The ensuing 20-year traffic
forecast implied an overall average traffic growth rate of 8.5% per year until
1989 and of 6% thereafter (details in Table 12).
(iii) Benefits from the Project
5.10      Total quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction
were calculated as the sum of (a) the direct benefits derived by highway
users - reduced vehicle operating costs and time savings, and (b) particu-
larly where no road access existed before, the net agricultural value added
attributable to the project.
5.11      The direct benefits derived by highway users accounted for over
80% of the total project benefits. Vehicle operating costs are high on the
present roads in comparison with the proposed highway, due partly to present
road lengths and partly to their poor riding surface and alignment. The new
highway, with a paved surface, shorter length, reduced number of curves and
grades and allowing higher average speeds, would reduce user operating costs
significantly. Details of the vehicle operating costs are shown in Table 13.
Based on the experience with previous highways in Costa Rica, 1/ the benefits
resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs are expected to be largely
transferred to the producers and consumers of the goods which are transported.
Producers and consumers benefit in two ways: first, for these highways, the
savings in vehicle operating costs have been observed to result in a gradual
reduction in the rates charged, at constant prices, by truck and bus operators
(about 10% in the first year). Second, and more important, the opening of
these new highways has been observed to have had a markedly beneficial im-
pact on consumers by making quality-service, around-the-clock transport
available. This had the effect of reducing the local retail price of most
consumption items drastically 2/ and apparently quite independently from
1/   Barranca-Liberia highway, completed in 1970, and San Jose-San Ramon
highway, completed in 1971, both financed by CABEI.
2/   This appears to be the result of breaking up common trade monopolistic
structures that develop, favored by the isolation of the area. In the
Guanacaste area (Barranca-Liberia road), real-term reductions of up to
50% in consumer goods retail prices were observed after the opening of
the highway.



- 20 -
the slight reduction in truck tariffs. The benefits derived by the local
producers were, again, not only those stemming from reductions in truck
tariffs but, also, apparently resulting from the increased availability of
transport and the quality of services. 1/ These two benefits are expected
to increase the competitiveness of agricultural production originating in
the area of influence of the project.
5.12      The net agricultural value added is expected to arise from the
more intense use of the land and the opening of new potentially productive
areas. In order to calculate the value added accruing to the project, the
analysis was limited to those areas not presently accessible by road and
that are expected to increase production only if the project highway is
built. The consultants selected some 90,000 hectares meeting this criterion.
The benefits were measured as the net value of agricultural output at farm
gate prices less production costs, including all capital investments required,
other than the highway project. These value-added benefits account for about
20% of total project benefits. This is considered to be a very conservative
estimation of development benefits. A large part of these benefits, such as
those derived by light vehicles and buses or generated in areas other than
those indicated above, were accounted for by the traffic model and were
measured as road user savings. 2/
5.13      Value-added benefits would be the result of combined efforts in the
highway project, feeder roads (para. 5.16) and the agricultural sector. The
consultants estimated that a total of about 96,000 hectares 3/ would be brought
under cultivation by 1999 as a result of these efforts. They estimate that
the production increase would range from 8% to 10% annually over a 20-year
period after the opening of the project highway. These increases would take
place as the forests, which occupy over 60% of all the land area in the region,
are gradually cleared. Large increases are expected to occur in pasture lands,
where beef and milk production to supply the urban centers of central Costa
Rica would constitute the bulk of the expansion. These activities would be
complemented by annual and perennial crops and preceded by land clearing where
commercial timber would be utilized. 4/ Annex 4 discusses these benefits in
more detail and Table 14 shows a summary of the value added for selected years.
1/   By improving the highway to Guanacaste (Barranca-Liberia road), efficiency
and speed were brought to the trucking services. Substantially increased
availability of everyday service made it possible for producers to reach
distant markets with tomatoes, oranges, rice, milk and other products for
the first time. This appears to have been achieved, as in the case above,
independently from the reduction in truck tariffs.
2/   To avoid double-counting, no development traffic resulting from value-
added production was included in the road user benefits calculation.
3/   Forty-six thousand hectares in the Rio Sucio-Siquirres area and 50,000
hectares in the Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo area.
4/   At present, a large proportion of commercial timber is abandoned in
land clearing operations due to lack of roads.



- 21 -
5.14      Total investments required to bring about this production were esti-
mated by the consultants to be on the order of ¢ 625 million over a 20-year
period. Of this total, 75% is the present value of the project highway, 5%
the present value of feeder roads and 20% the present value of the investments
required to start agricultural production. Agricultural investments, includ-
ing land clearing, land preparation and leveling, fencing, housing and initial
investment in crops and animals, amount to an annual average estimated by the
consultants at about ¢ 11.0 million, starting in 1980; this appears well within
the investment capacity of the sector. However, this investment should be the
result of the combined efforts of Government and private farmers. The Govern-
ment is promoting colonization schemes in the area, such as the 20,000-hectare
Colonia Cariari Settlement. 1/
5.15      The achievement of the project's value-added benefits is dependent
on adequate access to the highway's area of influence. Access, although in
general primitive, is more or less developed in the region, in particular,
in the Guapiles-Siquirres area. Transportation here has been provided for
some years by "tramways" using a network of railway tracks feeding into the
JAPDEVA (Atlantic) railway trunk lines. More recently, many of these tramway
lines were converted into feeder roads. This system of feeder roads is in
most places isolated from the rest of the highway network, and motor vehicles
have to be transported in and out on railway flat cars. The proposed highway
would solve this isolation, but improving and enlarging the existing feeder
road system would further stimulate economic activity in the region and in-
corporate and develop remote areas.
5.16      The Government, through the Instituto de Fomento y Asesoria Municipal
(IFAM), a decentralized agency, is preparing an extensive feeder road program.
Phase I of this program, under AID financing, has already preselected 4,000
km of feeder roads, a number of them located in the area of direct influence
of the project. Phase II, feasibility studies of preselected roads, is being
carried out by consultants (AITEC, US) under the IDB-financed OFIPLAN's pre-
investment fund. Construction of a number of the feeder roads may be financed
later by IDB as Phase III of the program. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on a tentative plan for the development of an
adequate feeder road system, within the area of influence of the proposed
highway. An implementation timetable would be submitted to the Bank by
January 1, 1977.
(iv) Economic Evaluation
5.17      The proposed project is well justified, with an economic return
(ER), based on the best estimates, of 18%,'. As indicated in Table 15, the
1/   Organized by the Instituto de Tierras y Colonizacion (ITCO), Colonia
Cariari has already settled 400 families. The Government, through ITCO,
owns another 120,000 hectares in the area, most in the land immediately
east of Colonia Cariari and some to the west near Rio Frio, and is
expected to continue expanding its colonization efforts.



- 22 -
three sections of the highway are individually justified, 1/ with ER's
including time benefits 2/ and agricultural value added, ranging from 16%
to 19%, and first year returns (FYR's) from 10% to 14%. Sensitivity
analyses have been carried out on the main parameters affecting the eco-
nomic evaluation (cost and benefits), showing that the ER would, even under
adverse assumptions, still be acceptable (Table 15).
5.18      To reflect the uncertainties associated with some of the factors
used in the evaluation, the ER was also calculated on a probabilistic basis
for which the assumptions are given in Annex 5. The probability analysis
indicates that the project has a 90% chance of a return of at least 15%. On
the upper side, there is about a 5% chance that the project's ER would be 20%
or higher, which makes it amply justified in economic terms (Annex 5, Figure 2).
C.   Other Project Components
5.19      The project includes provision of (a) vehicles and equipment neces-
sary for supervison of the civil works and (b) two permanent and five portable
vehicle weighing scales. Benefits were not quantified for purchase of the
vehicles and equipment, which are justified for the necessary supervision of
the civil works. Benefits'derived from the provision of two vehicle weighing
stations (to be installed near each end of the project highway) would consist
of savings on road maintenance costs and deferment of pavement overlay. These
benefits were accounted for in the economic analysis of the project highway,
made on the assumption that vehicle weight limits would not be exceeded, and
no separate economic analysis was made. Benefits in road maintenance would
also be obtained by the use of the portable scales elsewhere in Costa Rica.
5.20      The project also includes provision of consulting services for tech-
nical assistance for (a) transport planning and (b) preparation of an urban
transport project for San Jose. The technical assistance for transport plan-
ning is expected to help ensure, by participating in the organization of TSPO
and by advising and training Costa Rican counterparts, that future investments
in the transport sector would be made according to an integrated transport
plan and on a sound economic basis. The technical assistance for consulting
services for an urban project in San Jose would assist DGTA in implementing
transit and traffic engineering measures for central San Jose.
1/   Because of the corridor characteristic of funneling traffic destined to
San Jose, with relatively minor local traffic volumes, the economic
evaluation of each of the highway sections is dependent upon the others
remaining open to traffic.
2/   Time benefits due to reductions in travel times were computed based on
the average national industrial wage when traveling for business purposes.



- 23 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      Agreement was reached during negotiations with the Government on
the following points:
(a)  that future investments in its transport sector would be
carried out on the basis of adequate studies demonstrating
the economic justifications of such investments (para. 2.15);
(b)  the terms of reference for retaining consultants and the appointment
to TSPO of adequate personnel to act as counterparts for transport
planning (para. 4.09);
(c)  the terms of reference for retaining consultants and the assignment
of DGTA personnel to act as counterparts for preparation of an urban
transport project for San Jose (para. 4.09);
(d)  the number and qualifications of MOPT staff on the civil works
supervisory team, the conditions and terms of reference of the
consultants, and the nature of the working arrangements between
MOPT and the consultants (para. 4.18); and
(e)  the development of an adequate feeder road system, according to
a tentative plan and timetable, within the area of influence of
the proposed highway (para. 5.16).
6.02      The project provides a suitable basis for a loan of US$39.0 million
equivalent for a period of 25 years, including a five-year grace period.
December 15, 1975






TABLE 1
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Investment (Transportation)
(Millions of Colones)
Actual:
Year     Highways /  Railways 2/  Airports         Ports      Pipelines      Total
1966       45.7           0.6           0.3          -           25.0         71.6
1967       66.3           0.6           0.2         0.2          25.0         92.3
1968       55.6           1.2           0.4         2.9           -           60.1
1969       79.0           2.1           0.7         8.1           -           89.9
1970       81.1           2.8           1.5        12.7           -           98.1
1971       93,5           2.5           6.5         4.0           -          106.5
1972      135.0           2.4           9.5        20.0           -         166.9
1973      104.5           2.5           6.o        20.0           -          133.0
1974(est.) 121.0           4/          19.6-/              -                 140.6
Forecast:
1975      215.6            4/         10.2         25.7           -          251.5
1976      318.0            17/         23.5       112.5           -         454.0
1977      314.0            1/          23.5        72.5           -         410.0
1978      315.0            iT/        11.0         56.o           -          382.0
1979      240.0            1/         10.0          -             -          250.0
1! 3£xclusive of equiipment.
2/ Only INCOP (Pacific Railway).
3/ Santamaria International Airport (San Jose) expansion (Phase I).
_/ Nlot available.
Source:  General Directorate of Planning, MOPT
December 197h



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGIIWAY PROJFCT
Divelopment of the Highway Network
(in kilometers)
Year       1962.      196,       1964       1965      1966       12_6       1968      1969       1970       1971      1972       197
National Hfighways
Paved    j                 611       615         625        643       656        678        752       784        841       895        997      1,009
Lmproved 2/                550       618         692        708       751        802        723       691        653       570        511        499
Totals       1,161      1,233      1,317      1,351      1,1407    1,480      1,475     1,475      1,494      1,1465     1,508     1,508
Regional Highways
Paved    1,/               3514      371         371        381       386        391       426        1426       503       519        519        519
Improved 2/                1427      1439       1457        457       460        465      1h34        434        347       347        334        334
Totals         781        810        828        838        846       856        860       860        850        866        853       853
Secondary and Feeder Roads
Paved    1/                 95       103         124        1214      124        121       121        123        111       111        120        120
Tmproved E/              1,512     2,118       3,173     3,297      3,350      3,425     3,675      4,057     4,020      4,280      4,640      5,840
Farth    2/             10,274    10,142      10,618    12,000    11,948    12,178    12,290    12,280    14,100    14,260    14,620    14,770
Totals      11,881    12,363      13,915    15,421    15,422    15,724    16,086    16,460    18,231    18,651    19,380    20,730
Total (All Systems)
Paved    L/              1,060     1,089       1,120     1,148      1,166      1,190     1,299      1,333     1,455      1,525      1,636      1,648
Lmproved Z/              2,489     3,175       4,322     4,462    14,561       4,692     4,832      5,182     5,020      5,197      5,485      6,673
Earth    3/             10,2714    10,142     10,618    12,000    11,948    12,178    12,290    12,280    14,100    14,260    14,620    14,770
GRAND TOTALS            13,823    14,406      16,060    17,610    17,675    18,060    18,421    18,795    20,575    20,982    21,741    23,091
1/   Concrete or asphalt pavements.
2    Surfaced with gravel or selected materials.
2    Trafficable only during dry season.
Source:  General Directorate of Planning, MOPT
December, 1974



TABLE 3
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGIWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(1960 - 1973)
Passenger          Trucks
Years           Cars          Light & Heavy           Buses         Total
1960           15,952               8,397             1,289        25,638
1961           17,160              7,924              1,339        26,423
1962           17,736              7,823              1,371        26,930
1963           18,630              8,195              1,505        28,330
1964           20,328              8,932              1,540        30,800
1965           22,733             10,195              1,952        34,880
1966           27,154             12,287              2,058        41,499
1967           29,350             13,484              2,183        45,017
1968           31,813             15,107               2,338       49,258
1969           34,829             17,391              2,517        54,737
1970           39,260             20.,413             2,736        62,409
1971           43,439             23,448               3,001       69,888
1972           47,478             26,963              3,146        77,587
1973           52,093             31,063              3,299        86,46o
Average rate
of growth
1960-73        9.5%              1lo6%                7.5%         9.8%
Average rate
of growth
1968-73       10.4%               15 5?e              7.1%        11.9%
Source:  General Directorate of Planning, MOPT
December 1974



IABLE 4
COSTA RIOA
FOURTH HIG11NAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption
(Millions of US Gallons)
Year             Gasoline           Diesel          Total
1963               17.7               7.9            25.6
1.96L              17.8              10.5            28.3
1965               18.8              13.4            32.2
19 66'             19.6              13.8            33.4
1967 1/           17.9              l.4             28.3
1968               23.4              11.2            34.6
L969               24.3              12.3            36.6
1070               32.1              17.9            50.0
1971               31.2              10.4            50.6
1972               36.6              20.3            56.9
1073               44.9              25.5            7.14
AnnuaLl Rate of Growth
1963-1973 = 10710  (Total for gasoline and diesel)
1/  T1nsatisfled demand due to import restrictions resulting
'rom beginning of domestic refinement.
Source: Gerieral Di rectorate o f Planni ng, VI0PT
December 1974



TABLE 5
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Erpenditures 1966-1980
(millions of colones)
Interest on
Year   Studies   Foreign Loans    Construction  Maintenance  Administration  Equipment  Total
1965      -           4.5                38.4         22.9            5.5           5.6      76.9
196-     1.1          5.4                45.7         28.6            5.8           0.5      87.1
1967     0.9          5.3                66.3         20.7            4.5           2.6    100.3
1968     1.5          4.4                55.6         19.9            5.8            -       87.2
1969     1.9          6.0                79.0         17.9            4.1            -      108.9
1970     2.3          5.8                81.1         20.1           5,9k            -      115.2
1971     6.2         10.7                93,5         20.4           11,7          55.9    198.4
1972     6.0         12.2               135.0         34.7          14.6           32.4    234.9
1973     6.2         17.0/2             104.5         35.4          16.0k           6.o    185 1
1974     7,7         15.0               1210LZ2       38.0           24.0           5.2    210.9Z
FORECAST
1975     9.4         16.0               215.64        140.0          26.0            -      307.0
1P76     2.0         19.0               318.         142,0          28.0           40.0    449.0
1;77     5.o         24.0               314. v        44.0          29.0             -     416.0
1970     6.o         29.0               315.          46.o          30.0             -     426.0
1979     6.0         32.0               240.          48.0          30.0           50.0    406.0
1/ The increase from previous years is mainly due to a general increase in salaries
L' Estimated
j/ Tncludes maintenance and improvement programs with foreign financhng
Source: General Directorate of Planning, MOPT
July 1975



COSTA RICA
FOURT:H HIGHWAY PROJECT
Hgyag_ Sources of Funds 1965-78
(lillion of Colones)
Other
½i-rerument   Rank!                                         IJ.S. 1/     Private 2/                     External
'¢ear   _Funds        IDA    CABFI R     D9   EximBank   [JSAID    BPR         ForeiJn Banks   A t, J.C. 3/   Sources    -OTAL
L9r )1C;.8  13.4       -     2.0        0.5      5.4      0.1             -.8                             -        76.9
nrA'o.   148.8        11.1       -      9.6        0.1      3.3      0.3           5.9             8.0               _       87.1
I-)5.2      19.3       -     7.1,       1.4      1.9      5.0           2.8             3.3               -       100.3
43.0          -      11.5    2.2       15.5       -      12.7             -             2.3               -        87.2
48 2          _     22.1    3.8        10.7       -      22.7             -             1.4                       1OR.o
°7'   55,.8   _      22.2    8.2        7.7       -      19.6             -             1.7               -       115.2
1071      82.5          1.3    2°.5    6.1         6.7      1.0    13.9             -              1.5             55.9      198.h
1Q77)    102.6       25.0    37.3    8.3         9.7    10.9    21.1                             6.3             1.8-
-1 C 7R    07.9        30.'    22.2    3.7         4.2      5.7      9.8            -              5.1              6.0      I85. 1
1'771     6'.7         31.      33.3   30.2        4.1    29.0       4.0                           8.0              5.       ,10_0
I075       93.9        39*5   100.0   64.0           -      0.6       -                            9.0               -       ,C7.:
()7^     1> 7.1      56.5   132.0   54.0---                                                      10.()           59.L
1077     1J,8.R        93.2    82.5   38.6           -       -        -              -            11.0             31.,9     b 16 C
107       176.6       126.4    50.9   16.8           -       -        -              _            12.0             433.3      6.C
1Ct 177.4  56.5    80.7    9.0           -       -                                    1 _  ]3.0        69.4
7W  low t'edera! Highway Acbninistration
C /   cadow  3rook Bank
_,  municipalities and 1,ocal Road Councils
.;ujrce:  rG-enera.l Directorate of Planning, 40PT and M1:ission Estimates
July 1975



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGIHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges
(MI.lions of 2olones)
1963     1964      196's    1'66      1967    1968       1969      1970      1971     17f72
T-r-ft duties on vehicles           7     22.2      1803      1908      16.1    25.6      310      4?. 1     42 
-                                       5ees  -.  59  5.9   70J     l0oO      905      12?3     116      1Oo1      11o5
:l,^-.'r Die' Taxes              2o06      30.0     2h.6      3123      25.8    33.9      38302     h6.h      h7 0      COv7
/2
Texes on Tires                     o        ?o6      2.7       3c3       h00o    L02       h7                  h Q2      4. 1
Taxes on TLubricsnts             '0.4      o05       Oo6      05        1.3     007       1~0       1.2       1,3       1.5
Tolls                              -         -       009       1.9       2cl     204       2.6       3.1       3.6       L5
Tot;ii     L9c9      61.5      53.0     63.8      59.3    76.3       89.9    110.6    1;8.7    l1'.0
P   ",ee Footnote on T:tt,'i
D omestic production begun
0ouirce:  General Mirectorate of Planning, IMOPT
December, 1974



COSTA RICA
FCUJRTH HIGHJAIY PROJECT
Design tandards_ for Project Roads
Type of Terrain
Design Element                                Fiat         Rolling         Mountainous
Design speed                       (kmA.)      96            96                56
Minimum passing  sight distance   (m)         170          10                 72
Miinimuim horizontal radius         (mn)       2)           35                1lO
muximum grade                       ()          35                              7
Pavement width                      (m)         7.3 1/        7.3 1/            6.7
'3houlder width                     (m)         1.8 1/        1.5               1.2
'idth of' right-of-way              (m)        50            50                50
Design loading of bridges--AASHO H?O-S16--
1/  For the Rio 3ucio-Puer',o Viejo section, the pavement width'has been
reduced to 6.7 m and the shoulder width has been reduced to 1.5 n.
Sources:  Vialidad and BEL/EK
July  1975



TABLE 9
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consulting Services by Fanction for:
(A) Technical Assistance for
Transport Planning
Estimated Han-Months
Team leader/coordinator                                       28
Transport Economist                                           18
Statistician                                                   3
Financial Specialist                                           2
Information Specialist                                         3
Other Specialists:
Railways                                                6
Highways                                                5
Ports and Shipping                                      6
Aviation and Airports                                   3
Urban Planning                                          3
Road Transport                                          2
TOTAL                       79
(B) Technical Assistance for
Preparation of an Urban Transport
Project in San Jos6
Transit Operations                                            15
Traffic Engineering                                           15
30
SOURCE:s Mission
July 1975



TABLE 10
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
e Millions         US$ Millions Equival.   Exchange            Bank
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Component %   Participation
I. Civil Works
(a)   San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres Section
(i)  Ruta 102-Mata de Cafe       5.7    15.5      21.2    0.66    1.81    2.47
(ii)  Mata de Cafe-Rio Patria  41.7   112.7    154.4    4.85   13.11   17.96
(iii)  Rio Patria-Guacimo         16.2    43.9      60.1    1.89    5.11    7.00
(iv)  Guacimo-Siquirres          16.7    45.3      62.0    1.94    5.26    7.20
(v)  Six major bridges          15.4    41.6      57.0    1.79    4.84    6.63
Sub-Total       95.7       259.0    354.7   11.13   30.13   41.26
(b)   Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo Section
(vi)  Rio Sucio-Pto. Viejo       10.1    27.2      37.3    1.17    3.17    4.34
Sub-Total (a) and (b)   105.8   286.2    392.0   12.30   33.30   45.60          73               26.30
(c)   Right-of-Way                     6.0      -         6.0    0.70      -      0.70       0
II.  Supervision of Civil Works    25.8        1.3      27.1    3.00    0.15    3.15        5                0.15
III.  Establishment of Weighing
Stations and Procurement of
Portable Scales and Vehicles/
Equipment for Supervision        0.1      2.6      2.7    0.02    0.30    0.32        93               0.30
IV.  Technical Assistance For:
(i)  Transport Planning          3.4     4.3       7.7    0.40    0.50    0.90
(ii)  Urban Transport Project   0.9       1.7       2.6    0.10    0.20    0.30
Sub-Total IV    4.3      6.0      10.3    0.50    0.70    1.20 2/  58                  0.70
V. Contingencies
(i) Physical (10% of I(a)+(b)) 10.6    28.6        39.2    1.23    3.35    4.58        73
(ii) Price 1/                     47.8   110.9    158.7    5.55   12.90   18.45         70
Sub-Total V    58.4   139.5    197.9    6.78   16.25   23.03          70              11.55
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    200.4   435.6    636.0   23.30   50.70   74.00          68              39.00
1/  Price contingency is based on the following yearly prices increases (%):
Consulting Services/Equipment       Civil Works
1975                  12                          16
1976                  10                          14
1977-79                8                          12
2/ Based on consultants' cost of US$6,000/man-month of expert service.
SOURCE: MOPT, BEL-EK, and mission.
July 1975



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHAY PROJ3CT
Comparison and Economic Return of
Alternative Routes Between San Jose, Siquirres and Puerto Viejo
Best 'Estimate of
Distance       Travel Time       Transport Cost         Total Conat.IReconst.              Ecoromic Return
Routes                         (ki)          (hours)12           (e ton)L2             Cost (4illion e)                      mR)I4
By          combined           By             Combined
Section        Project         Section           Project
P. ?roposed Highway t-
(a)  San Jose-Siquirres                    96               1.4               16.00              379.0                            18
(b)  San Jose-Puerto Viejo                  76              1.1               12.90              255.2            422419
2 E. xisting laighwaysis
(a)  San Jose-Siquirres                   100               1.9               20.10              317.0            599             14
(b)  Sen Jse-Puerto Vielo                  95               1.6               20.40              282.4                            12
/1 Maintenance and costs of existing roads as required by local traffic included.
/2 Average travel times on the existing routes (unimproved): San Jose-Siquirres, 2,8 hours,
San Jose-Puerto Viejo, 2.9 hours.
/3  Vehicle operating costs (economic) of average truck, (7-ton capacity), assuming looT.
utilization plus drivers' tine.
/4  in comparison with "do-iothing" alternative (existing roads uattiproved).
/5  Assuming existing routes San Jose-Siquirres and San Jose-Puerto Viejo are improved
and paved.
SOURCE:  Mission estimates.
December 1974



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
San Jose-Siguirres-Puerto Viejo Highway
Traffic Flows (AADT) /1
Estimated 1980
Actual                Light                                Average Annual Growth
Highway            Alternative    Section/Traffic         1972     Total    Vehicles    Buses    Trucks    65/72    72/80    80/89    89/99
San Jose-Siquirres          Exist. Road    San Jose-Paraiso    2,740        3,19 02    2,140         350       700
Paraiso-Eslabon        910      1,03          800         30       200
Eslabon-Siquirres      210        170--       155          5        10
I1.912.    9.0      6.0       4.5
San Jose-Puerto Viejo       Exist. Road    San Jose-Vara Blanca  320           320/2      230         30        60
Vara Blalca-&a Migwl   170         2 /2        16          2         2
San Miguel.-Pto.Vie4o   140       740         590         50       200
5.717     8.3      5.0       4.0
San Jose-Rio Sucio          Proposed        Diverted                -       1,580       1,140        160       280
Generated and
Development         -        1,590       1,330         70       190
Total             -        3,170       2,470        230      470                  -        8.1       5.3
Rio Sucio-Siquirres        Proposed         Diverted                -         610         380         80       150
Generated and
Development         -          790         690         30        70
Total             -        1,400       1,070        110      220        -         -       10.3       7.2
Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo    Proposed          Diverted                -          790        600         70       120
Generated and
Development         -          250         110         40       100
Total                  -  l,040          710        110      220        _         -        6.8       6.8
/1  Traffic projections were based on a Numerical Model which consisted of approximately 45 segments on
the proposed road.  For simplicity of presentation on this Table, the segmented traffic volumes
were averaged for the three highway sections,
/2  Traffic expected to remain on the existing roads if proposed highway is built.
/3  Based on traffic counts taken at Cartago and Heredia.
SOURCE: BEL-EK Feasibility Study
December 1974



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs-
(Colones/km)
Proposed Road                         Existing Road
Type of Vehicle    San Jose-    Rio Sucio-       Rio Sucio-    San Jose-        San Jose-
Rio Sucio    Siguirres    Puerto Viejo    Siquirres    Puerto Viejo
Light Vehicle          0.33         0.28            0.28           0.49           0.66
Bus                    0.94         0.85            0.85           1.33           1.96
Truck                  1.12          1.01           1.01           1.59           2.34
,/l  inonotraic eots, uxc Iudinb drivers' saLaries for buses and truc;s.
(th,sc  sal,tries were however includedl in the economic anal-rsis).
('C'.?.2.:  T,T,,.-.  feasibility stvidy,. ad  u.tecI by the appra,isal mlissiorf
DeccOrii)r , 1974                                                                              ,



TABLE 14
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWJAY PROJECT
Summary of Agricultural Value
Added1 For Selected Years
(millions of Colones)
Rio Sucio-Siquirres    Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo              Total
1980    1989    1999    1980    1989    1999    19o0    1989    1999
Livestock
Beef         0.9      2.7     8.6     0.5      3.0     9.3      1.4     5.7   17.9
Milk         0.8      1.9     3.7     0.3      1.2     2.9      1.2     3.1    6.6
C,rops
Annual       0.7      2.5     3.5     0.1      0.4     0.7      0.8     2.9      4.2
Perennial    0.1      o.4     o.6      -       0.1     o.6      0.1     o.6      1.2
Forestry          0.3      1.1     3.0      1.5     5.2    12.1      1.8     6.3    15.1
TOTAL             2.8      8.6    19.4      2.4    10.0    25.6      5.2    18.6    45.0
1/ Net value added attributable to the highway pro,^,ect.
SOURCE:  BEK-IK feasibility study, adj:usted  by the appraisal mission.
December, 1974



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Results of Road Sections
Financial/l      Economic/2      Economic Evaluation Based on Best Estimates/3        -Sensitivity Analysis (ER)
Section                Length     Cost              Cost         Without time BenefitsL _  With Time BenefitsL_
(Km)    (¢J/million)     (¢/million)       ER/6        FYR/7          ER/6     FYR/7         Cost + 15%      Benefit -25%
San Jose-Rio Sucio                  47        211.8             184.9          18          12            19         14               16               16
Rio Sucio-Siquirres                 49        167.2             145.9          15           8            16         10               14               13
Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo              29         43.4               38.8         17          12            18         14               15               14
San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres        96        379.0             330.8          17          11            18         12               16               15
Total All Road Sections            i25        422.4             369.6          17          11            18         12               16               15
Lj  Based on 1974 cost estimates, including physical contingencies and project supervision and right of way.
/2  Financial cost net of taxes.
/3  Basis for best estimates - (i) annual traffic and growth rates per Table 12; (ii) costs and benefits
in 1974 prices; (iii) construction period, four years (1976-1979); (v) economic life of project, 20 years.
/4  Savings in vehicle operating costs, including professional drivers' salaries, road maintenance costs, and
value added benefits.
/5  Time benefits due to reductions in travel times were computed for all sections, based on the average
national industrial wage when travelling for business purposes.
/6  ER = Economic Return.
/7  FYR = First Year Return.
SOURCE: BEL-EK feasibility study, adjusted by the appraisal mission, December 1974.
July 1975



COSTA RICA
FOUHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway External Financing by Agencies Other Than the Bank Group
Dates of Agreement       Amount                            Purpose
(US0oo0)
A.  By the Export-Import Bank and USAID
1960                 3     /000 I    Construction San Jose-El Coco Highway
1963                  ,000-/   Construction Pan American Highway
1963                 2000/   Construction of National and Regional Highways
1966                 7,00Q-    Ccnstruction Pan American Highway
1967                   450     Construction Parones-Siquirres Highway
1970                 7,100     Road Maintenance
34,55o
E.  By the InterAmerican Development Bank
196i)                 4,000    Construction feeder roads - Phase I
1969                7,500      Construction feeder roads - Phase II
1973                   400     Studies Tilaran-Puerto Viejo Highway
1974                -6,000     Construction and improvement programs
27,900
C.  By CABET
567                  4,700     Construction San Ramon-Rio Colorado IHighway
1968                 5,800     Construction El Coco-Rio Poas Highway
1969                   500     Pre-investment studies, Pacific Coast Highway
1969                 1,800     Construction Arizona-Penas Blancas Highway
1970                 1,600     Construction Arizona-Pehas Blancas Highway
1970                   40O     Pre-investment Studies - Heredia-Puerto Viejo Highway
1070                   600     Pre-investment Studies - Naranjo-Los Chiles Highway
1970                 3,600     Addition - El Coco-ban .Rpmon Highway
1972                   900     Construction Arizona-Liberia Highway
1972                4,900      Construction Tres Rios-Curridabat :Highway
1973                 4,6o0     Construction Liberia-Pe-nas Blancas Highway
1974                 7,000     Construction Tarcoles-Jaco (Pacific Highway)
197L4                3,200     Construction Sabana-Escazn Highway
197l4                9,000     Construction Escazu-Colon Highway
1974  5,000                    Construction Naranjo (Terron Colorado) - Los Chiles Hwy.
1975                6,800      Construction El Roble-Caldera Highway
7L0, )00
1/ Excort-Import Bank
ource: General Directorate of Planning, I'IOPT
July 1975



ANNEX 2
COSTA RICAt
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and                    at End of Quarter
Quarter Ending                              (Us$ '000)
1975/76
March 31, 1976                                   -
June 30, 1976                                  1,500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                             2,000
December 31, 1976                              2,500
March 31, 1977                                 4,000
June 30, 1977                                  6,500
1977/78
September 30, 1977                             9,000
December 31, 1977                             12,000
March 31, 1978                                15,000
June 30, 1978                                 18,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                            21,000
December 31, 1978                             23,500
March 31, 1979                                26,000
June 30, 1979                                 28,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                            30,000
December 31, 1979                             32,000
March 31, 1980                                34,000
June 30, 1980                                 36,000
1980/81
September 30, 1980                            38,000
December 31, 1980                             39,000
Assumptions
Award of Civil Contracts            April, 1976
Start of Construction               May, 1976
Completion of Construction          May 1980
Source: Appraisal Mission
December 1975



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HTGHWAY PROJECT
Project Tmplemntction Sched,nIe
1                                                  197~~~~~~~~~~~~_____  1076,                                                  107P                          10'                          lPo
A C TI V I T I E S                                        I9r |17                                    '      -      |17                                        Q91E
.A S Ov, D  J F M A M J .1 A S O  l D  J             F M A M J J A S  '  J F M A M J . A S O  N D  J F M A M J J A S O   N D  J F IN  A M J J A S O  N D
CONSTRUCTION
Prequalification of Contractors
Contract Documents
Invitation to Tender
Adjudication                                                       i
Legalization                                                       I
Construction _
SUPERVISION BY CONSULTANTS
Invitation
Adjudication
Legalization
Execution
CONSULTING SERVICES
Invitation to Participate
Preparation of Short List
Invitation for Proposals
57 2Adjudication
Legalization                                                                     ()
a               Execution
REMARKS:  Bank Involvemnnt
1. Approval of prequalified contrmetors and contract documents.
2. Approval of winning bidder.
3. Approval of selection procedures.
4.  Approval of iainner.
5. Approval of short list.
6. Approval of selection procedures.
7. Approval of winner(s).
B. Two copies of signed contract to Rank.
9. Two copies of signed contract(s) to Bank.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimation of the Agricultural Value Added
1.        Total quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction
were calculated as the sum of (a) road user benefits and (b) the net agricul-
tural value added attributable to the project.
2.        Road user benefits were calculated by the consultants using a
numerical model. The model, which included traffic assignation and pro-
jections using the FRATAR method, operated in accordance with preestablished
indicators of population, vehicle ownership, agricultural production and
general economic activity in the area. It was calibrated analyzing over
500 road segments in already developed areas of central Costa Rica. The
project road itself was divided into 45 segments, and all calculations,
from traffic assignment and forecasts to road user savings projections,
were made by the consultants on a computerized model.
3.        The net agricultural value-added benefits, as estimated by the
consultants, amounted to about 20% of total project benefits. As such, they
appear to be very conservatively estimated. It should be noted, ho'wever,
that generated and development traffic projected by the consultants' model
(para. 2) account for the rest of these benefits in the form of road user
savings. This complementary measure of development benefits results because
no precise rationale is known for quantifying the impact of the new highway
on agricultural production. Therefore, for purposes of calculating value-
added benefits, a number of assumptions have been made. First, it was assumed
that agricultural production and land utilization in the area will continue
to expand, even if the project is not implemented. Second, it was assumed
that value-added benefits would be generated only in those areas where devel-
opment would clearly take place only if a road were built. Increases in
production resulting from higher yields obtained in other areas were not
considered, even when they are expected to occur partly as a result of
general trends observed in Costa Rica (particularly in beef production), but
mostly due to incentives and extension services made possible by the new
highway.  Third, it was assumed that all capital investments, other than the
project highway, that are necessary to bring about increased production over
and above expected normal growth, are to yield a competitive rate of return. 1/
This interest on the investments, together with depreciation, was included in
all agricultural production costs. The first two assumptions were put forward
by the consultants and the third by the appraisal mission. As a result of the
first two, value-added benefits were conservatively estimated. The third is
1/ Estimated at 12% annually, at constant prices.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
based on the assumption that lack of transport is the only constraint preventing
full development of the selected area, and the highway project is therefore
entitled to receive the full benefit of this agricultural value added.
4.        Most of the highway project's agricultural value added would be
generated in areas around the Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo section and in areas
north of the Rio Sucio-Siquirres section. These selected areas, at present
covered by forests, are highly suitable for agricultural production.
Rainfall and soil characteristics are particularly suitable for pastures
apt to sustain intensive beef and milk production activities. The
ecological conditions of the area are also suitable for various cash crops
such as corn, cassava, plantains, pineapple and rice. 1/ The total land
incorporated by the project is shown in Table A below:
TABLE A
Estimate of Land Use in 1971 and in 1999 after
Implementation of the Highway Project (Hectares)
1971                                1999
Types of   Rio Sucio-  Rio Sucio-            Rio Sucio-  Rio Sucio-
Activities Siguirres Puerto Viejo Total Siquirres Puerto Viejo Total
Crop Lands  20,000          6,000    26,000   36,000        10,000      46,000
Pastures    70.000         74,000   144,000  100,000       120,000    220,000
TOTAL  90,000         80,000   170,000  136,000       130,000    266,000
/1   Including bananas.
Source:   BEL-EK feasibility study, adjusted by the appraisal mission
December 1974
1/   Although banana plantations presently constitute the largest activity
in the region, occupying close to 15,000 hectares, all forecasts
indicate a small increase in planted areas. Furthermore, the effect
of the highway project on this activity is not expected to be
important. Its transport needs are served by the Atlantic railway and,
by and large, would continue to be served by it. Banana export traffic
to Limon (25.0 million boxes in 1974) provides the bulk of the railway
traffic, for which it is best suited.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
5.        Cropland benefits included in the value added would be generated by
various annual and perennial crops. An estimate of the various crops and
their annual product for selected years is shown in Table B. They are ex-
pected to supply local and national markets, mainly the San Jose region,
where ample demand exists. Net value-added benefits of this produce include
the benefit of increased local consumption and are measured at farm gate
prices. The value added for all crops was estimated to be 4 900,000 in 1980,
reaching t 5.4 million in 1999, of which about 75% is generated by annual crops
and the rest by perennial plantations. A summary of these benefits by road
section and for selected years is shown in Table 14 of the main text.
TABLE B
Estimate of the Additional Production
Resulting from the Highway Project (tons)
1980                                1999
Types of         Rio Sucio-  Rio Sucio-            Rio Sucio-  Rio Sucio-
Crops            Siquirres  Puerto Viejo  Total  Siquirres  Puerto Viejo  Total
Annual Crops
Corn                300          -          300    2,800        1,000       3,800
Cassava           1,400         300       1,700    5,100        2,500       7,600
Others /1           -            -          -        100          500         600
Sub-Total        1,700         300      2,000    8,000         4,000      12,000
Perennial Crops
Plantain            200          -          200      500        1,200       1,700
Pineapple        t  /2)          -       (  /2)  (/2  )         3,000       3,000
Others /3         1 600       1,200      2,800    9,500        22,800      32,300
Sub-Total        1,800       1,200      3,000   10,000        27,000      37,000
TOTAL          3,500       1,500      5,000   18,000        31,000      49,000
/1   Rice and yam.
/2   Included with others.
/3   Coconut trees, oranges, coffee and cacao.
Source:   BEL-EK feasibility study, adjusted by the appraisal mission
December 1974



ANNEX
Page 4
6.        Pasture land benefits would be generated by production of beef
and milk. Both cattle on the hoof and processed beef would be com-
mercialized. An estimate of production for selected years is shown in
Table C. They are expected to supply basically the local and national
markets, especially the San Jose region. However, part of the processed
beef is expected to be exported, reaching 5,000 tons in 1999, or about 50%
of the additional production generated by the project. Total value added
generated by livestock activities was estimated to be ¢ 2.6 million in 1980,
reaching 0 24.5 million in 1999, of which about 75% is generated by beef
production and the rest by dairy activities. A summary of these benefits by
road section and for selected years is given in Table 14 of the main text.
TABLE C
Estimate of the Additional Production
Resulting from the Highway Project
1980                                 1999
Rio Sucio- Rio Sucio-          Rio Sucio-  Rio Sucio-
Siguirres Puerto Viejo Total  Siquirres  Puerto Viejo Total
Cattle (head)        2,000      1,500      3,500    17,000       23,000    40,000
Milk
(Million Liter)       1.8        1.4        3.2      15.0         21.0      36.0
Source:   BEL-EK feasibility study, adjusted by the appraisal mission
December 1974
7.        In addition to the value added generated by crops, beef and milk
production, forestry benefits were also considered. At present, land-
clearing activities do not always profit from the available commercial
timber due to the lack of adequate road transport. Moreover, and for the
same reason, lumbering on a commercial scale has not developed in the area
in spite of the large resources available. There is a strong indication that,
if an adequate road system were built, forestry production would increase
in the area of influence of the project at a rate of over 8% annually.
Most of this production, coming in particular from the Rio Sucio-Puerto
Viejo area, would be absorbed by domestic demand. Timber exports are re-
stricted, but some plywood exports generated from the area of influence are
expected, reaching some 7,000 tons in 1999. Value added generated by forestry
activities was estimated to be 0 1.8 million in 1980, reaching ¢ 15.1 million
in 1999. A summary of these benefits by road section and for selected years
is given in Table 14 of the main text.
8.        Value-added benefits are expected to be reasonablv distributed
among the rural population. Today, small holdings account for between 80%
to 90% of total farm units in the area of influence of the road as shown



ANNEX 4
Page 5
in Table D. If, as expected, these patterns remain stable after completion
of the proposed highway and thereafter, value-added benefits would be dis-
tributed among farmers, according to the consultants, as shown in Table D.
TABLE D
1974 Land Distribution in the Area of Influence of the Road
and Estimated Distribution of Value-Added Benefits
According to Farm Size /1
Rio Sucio-Siguirres Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo        Total
Small     Large       Small      Large      Small    Large
Description         Holdings  Holdings   Holdings   Holdings   Holdings Holdings
Average Size           25 Ha     270 Ha       80 Ha     500 Ha       37 Ha  360 Ha
General Average             42 Ha                  145 Ha                66 Ha
Number of Farms    2,045         155         590        100       2,635     255
Percentage of Farms   93%          7%         85%        15%         90%     10%
Value-added
distribution        66%         34%/2      40%         60%/3       46%     43%/4
/1   Excluding banana plantations where land tenure is as follows:
Size (Ha)      Number of Farms
Standard Fruit                   3,200                1
BANDECO                          2,200                1
Independent farmers              9,600               230
Total           15,000               232
/2   Includes 5% derived by forestry operators.
/3   Includes 13% derived by forestry operators.
/    Includes 11% derived by forestry operators.
Source:   BEL-EK, March 1975
April 1975



ANNEX 5
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Probability Analysis of the Economic
Rate of Return
In order to introduce into the ER calculations the degree of
uncertainty associated with the basic parameters used in the estimation
of project costs and benefits, a probability analysis was carried out.
Conventional sensitivity analysis shows the effect of variations in some
of the assumptions (para. 5.15 of the text), but it does not express
judgment on the likelihood of simultaneous variations in these assumptions
and their effects on the ER.
2.        The basic assumptions concerning the type and value of probability
distribution for the variables entering the ER calculation (construction
costs, traffic forecast, vehicle operating costs, time values and value-
added benefits 1/) are given in Figure 1 of this annex. This figure
gives the mission estimates of the likely variations from the best estimates
which were designed in collaboration with the consultants and Government
officials.
3.        The results of the probability analysis indicate that the most
likely economic return (mean of the probability distribution) would be
about 17.5%. The analysis also gives the distribution of the ER as follows
(Figure 2 of this annex):
ER              Cumulative Probability
15%                       10%
16%                       25%
17%                       50%
18%                       75%
19%                       90%
20%                       95%
The analysis shows that, even by measuring only the readily quantifiable
benefits of the project, there is only a 10% chance that the project will
return less than 15%, while there is a 5% chance that the project's return
will be higher than 20%. It can be said, therefore, that the project is
economically very attractive, with little chance that the ER will result
below an acceptable minimum.
I/   The basic distributions for traffic forecast, vehicle operating costs
and time values were combined, for use in the CBPACK model, into two
derived distributions, one for vehicle operating savings and the other
for time savings.



ANNEX 5
ri"gur-e l
COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Probability Analysis
llistogrnms of
Ttajor Inputs                 Traffic
Pro ections
GonEtruction
Costs
~~~2                                                       15      19 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
15% 1o      8  15%  12%                           10%              12
-4u/%' -30% -20% -10%  0    10% 20%  30%  40%  50%           -20% -10%  0    10%  20%  30%
Vehicle Operating Cost
Old Road
Time Cost
20%  12  1  12  2                                          I
I                                 1    1~~~~~o%   12 15% 1
-30%  -20% -10%   0   10'  2C%  30%              -30% -20%  -10%   O   10%  20% 30%   40%
V.hicle Operating Cost
liew Road
Value Added Benefits
60%
10  p 0
20A, 20,%
10%,ffl        10% llOdl                     10% 15%               15%  10%
-20% -10%   0   10%  20%                -4X0 -30% -20% -lo%  0    10% 20%  30%  40%
Source:  Mission estimates based on consultations with BEL-LK and MOP.
December, 1974



ANNEX 5
100%                                                                                 Figure 2
__                   ._  __EpXi e. -I- --t-                                                 - -t__ 
Accuru41tvePjol,abilt
90                                        1
80 -0
(Proba- ility that the EI is
less t han the value shown)--
70              I             ;.
Io    -                   -                                   
.:: X, __.__ ___:_-                           .                            ----___ ;
r0 _____                       __   ___                 _ __           ___-__-__-
F~~~~~~ ~    ~      ~      ~~~~~               ~      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .          I   
1X         -'-      -X1                                 .f+ 
20                     ---   --  - ---- ---           -   -
10 ------         .         ___ ......                               - v       --  '-  /-
°10          12                          16            18            20           22            2h
3conon,iic R.eturn
SOURC3~:  Mission Estim,ates 



COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
GEN DIRECTORATE OF
HIGHWAYS
SUB-DIRECTORATE
PLANNING DEPT
DEPT. OF PROCEDURES      DP.O   OK                     DEPT. OF ROAD           DEPT. OF BRIDGE       DEFT. OF MATERIAL'S      DPT OSPECIFIC
MAINTENANCE DEPT          AN  SrCIATIONS            BY CONTRCT                      DESIGN        IDESIGN                                                    ESG
ADMINISTRATION
VWorld Bank-9693(R)






COSTA RICA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
MINISTER
LEA         D    -G                                                 DIRECTORATE
I LEGAL DEPARTMENT ~ !nIOFATI
I       A         ION
PUBLIC RE
VICE MINISTER
~~~ t  ~~~~~CHIEF CLERK                   |
IDEPT OF ORGANIZATION 
| AND METHuuS    IT_1HNIC
|DEPT OF CONTROLIL
IAND COOP ERATIVE 
PLANS ~   ~         ~        ~         AADISR
11                                                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|GENERAL DIRECTORATE| I C.EN DIREC ORATE OF I I GEN D ORATE1 I GEN DIHECTORATE OF  IGENF D I R ECTORATE IJF IGEN, DIRECTORATE  I I GEN DIRECTORATE  I I GEN DIRELTORIATE OF II GEN DIRECTORATEIOF
I O C+IL VIAIONI  UTOMOIVE TRANPR                                      I GEGAE1  NTrT    DIITRATION   I     FOPERATION    |OFEUPMrNT & MACHIN|1 I   OF HIGHVVAYS    I     OTS _WORK    NAT'L, CONSTRUCTION|
VVorId B-,k -96941RI






IBRD0-11661 R
LAKE    NICARAOUA                                                      -   =                                                                                                               DECEMBER 1
c                  A -7   7-.     :       : -.-         U          A -
____                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA FRICA
7                  AOLA                 =                                        T0)                                                                     FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.>-                                                                            '.O; k 
; t     _                           ., CLARAS~~~~~~~~~~     ~          ~~~ ~ URALADT      
'a~~~~~~~~~~.C
CA I DCR        o  AREN .Tc pCUtA
BA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0   C5 \N21"AT A              5                         A                                                               CNA'"AUIN
vetCoCoit"U">t^Al  b- d '    A - I ^ dul   1\ d~ -
EL GALL To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                       A    '\           NN
ARTSPAt;O-.O O/RT-COHI%      0150LE0H       AJA\                                                      NAICOAb   NANAL EA    REIOAIGHWAYS
EoEN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b= ONURAT  
E.A   C   4      "     '           ANA         IA0                    .................  A
A :Rl7A                                                                                                                                                             A- \- 6VRIAcNcAER
O C                             F  A    N                                                                                                              z.N:T10TE AMR I1B P=IPA=
WA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~., C-d. I>R i. tAf
LA,PR.......... ...... ND b.  .   .                            ,                                                                                                                                         '
TONI> co4ocgoNN  TO DOPINGO
SANANA 5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ LAND  OD
N~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,                                 SNIIR  ECRND FNJREDNHWY.ROEC
\0 tARAVAn S I  ..A '   *   EL GALL To   \',ENA OINA HE IEGIONAL HIGHWHWYA PR OJEETL                                                                                                                          =    -
T .RRU ,,  d4- CARES I    Z      AAL S(                                                                C;;..s~ t.. Gr , siq, --  Dr   Ieraeoil. "d _sNvoJ'
sGRr-clA * <Xv }/ t * )} ' tir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ldec CoccArtctoli oc mpovmn Ac IcAcpTU[NOATAAD===TINI
f/   \   *  D  \ \    @.   //        yo                               +;+*== Fir~~~~~~~~~~~~~EjEt Bacck/IDX Righc ac hejedtXi>v<==   
\  (R G E N TI N PI= R       O          /                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEEDERl 0505 CStOINSTRUiCTED W.ITlI IPB PARTICIPATION    
LA AAc -TA                                + S T         O    ONIINGO                           I---I - I-4  PLANNED ROAD>/w,                                                                                                 ^      _    _ 
<1   / N       guX            \)Si s   /  G ~~~~AN  AIDeS< SE CORONADO      - --_-  FOIIRTH HIGHWVAY PROiECT                                                                                               ,__--_D-
.A                           GUA_  \  1  tSECOND HIGHWSAD  PROJECT                                                                  . -
TURNUCARES                    STIA.ALNA                                                                   HHS A ostein STUqIES . PRJECiTgn                                      e    m .  .>7
V5~    5 LLN                   ...ANS. F.EcAciEltcE' Sdy & D,It.iTd EA,gm ...ENAg
S   t     &ot! gG 0           #        @        t       ^        SLLANO GqcRAN ec $ & SAI- oAr PIAtI Viejo Ro-d.
PIEDRAS           __- aTVILLA  COLON             GR    E       G        A      .        .                  (Two Opticcu  Indite I
NEGRAS       %                    DEsAMPARAOOsJl   +>        TRES PldG                             MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS LIMITS
OCAOTSSC       St AINTENANC:E SltOPS
)JARIs  2                         aZ  \*                         FCAPTAGO          C DESArPARA                                                                                                               - - --  - -_- --
GR FO    04    *                        5       1 0//         *                         P              *       VLAO°5-                                                                               0            =,      M               ____
ALTO   "R'PURISCALAKILOMETER5L/WAY*,                            \                                   -.-=-R--t 5.4                                                                                                        E
PN.AISCAL            KILOVOETERS0 g  *.                                  (



