Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2 .g Z_  -  C -t
Report No. 9041-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 16, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of February 1991)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 - Y5.22
Y1.00 - US$0.192
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MIEASURES
1 meter (m)      - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
1 hectare        - 15 mu
1 ton (t)        - 1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds
1 kg             - 2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACkONYMS USED
ABC       -   Agricultural Bank of China
APC       -   Aquatic Products Company
BAH       -    Bureau of Animal Husbandry
BF        -    Bureau of Forestry
BOA       -    Bureau of Agriculture
BOF       -    Bureau of Finance
CBPC      -    County Broiler Production Company
CCPG      -    Central China Power Grid
CMIEC     -    China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
CSC       -    County Seed Company
DAP       -    Diammonium Phosphate
EH        -    Engineering Headquarters
EPB       -    Environmental Protection Bureau
HAAS      -   Henan Academy of Agricultural Sciences
HTAHICC   -    Henan Tangyin Animal Husbandry Industries & Commercial Corp.
HAU       -    Henan Agricultural University
HPAPRI    -   Henan Provincial Aquatic Product Research Institute
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
ICID      -    International Commission for Irrigation and Drainage
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MWR       -   Ministry of Water Resources
NCPAP     -   North China Plain Agriculture Project
PEPB      -    Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
PCBC      -    People's Construction Bank of China
PPMO      -    Provincial Project Management Office
PMO       -    Project Management Office
PLG       -    Project Leading Group
PSA       -    Provincial Seed Administration
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
SMC       -    Supply and Marketing Corporation
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
TSP       -   Triple Superphosphate
WCB       -   Water Conservancy Bureau
YRCC      -   Yellow River Conservancy Commission
YRDS      -   Yellow River Divetsion Scheme



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
HEN~AN AGRICULTURAL DErVELOPMENT PROJECT
Zredit and Project SummarX
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
BeneficI&ar:       Henan Province
SDR 81.4 million (US$110 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-LendinF  Term:s  From Government to Henan Province: 15 years, including five
years of grace, with interest at 5.5% per annum. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by Honan Provincial Government.
On-lending rates to farmers would be no less than Agricutural
Bank of China charges for subloans for similar purposes with
similar maturities and on-londi±ng rates for enterprises would
be no less than People's Construction Bank of China charges
for subloans for similar purposes with simLlar maturities.
Obiectives_and
Descrigtions:      The project would alleviate poverty in several of the poorest
counties in Henan Provinc, by increasing crop, livestock and
fish production and productivity. The project would: (i)
improve and expand four Yellow River Diversion Schemes (YRDS)
and sink 4,900 wells for conjunctive water use within tha
schemes; (ii) sink 8,900 wells and rehabilitate anotter 3,600
in areas outside the YRDSs; (iii) eliminate waterlogging and
salinity problems by providing drainage and flood protection
schemes; (iv) provide needed inputs; (v) strengthen research
and extension; (vi) increase efficiency of livestock
production through better feed, breeds, and veterinary
services; (vii) develop low-lying areas for fish production,
and (viii) invest in agroprocessing and agroindustry so as to
utilize project outputs and by-products. The project would
strengthen overall project management and environmental
r'otection programs by providing equipment, technical
assistance and training.
Benefitsj and      At full development, the project would annually produce
Ralsk             633,000 tons of crops valued at US$94 million  145;000 tons
of fruit valued at US$30 million and 27,700 mi of timber and
11,250 tons of wicker valued at US$3 million. Incremental
production of livestock and aquaculture would be US$9
million. Value added in agroprocessing and agroindustry
would be US$10 million. The project has an overall economic
rate of return of 36%. Per capita income in the project area
would increase by an average of 198% for 630,000 poor farm
families. Significant employment, especially for women,
would be created in all components. There are a few risks,
which have been satisfactorily minimized.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the l,orformance
of their omielal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bamsia authoriation.



D= - =u4                Lo,c~Li 
Estimated Cogtg                     oa            Zsx.i          Tta
--..-(US$ million) ----------
Irrigation and Drainage            55.8           32.2            88.0
Agriculture                         8.1           11.4            19.5
Livestock                          12.0            8.1            20.1
Aquaculture                         5.8            3.9             9.7
Agroindustry                       14.3           20.1            34.4
Institutional Support               0.6            1.0             1.6
Base Costs a/                      96.6           76.7           173.3
Physical Contingencies              5.5            6.1            11.6
Price Contingencies                 2.7            8.4            11.1
.,.     ... ,.,....,
Tot.l Project Costs            104.8           91.2           196.0
a/ Project is exempt from taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                    Local          Ereai          Total
- ''''--------(US$ million)---------
IDA                                18.8           91.2           110.0
Provincial Government              38.5            0.0            38.5
Prefectural/Municipal Governments   9.6            0.0             9.6
County Governments                 19.8            0.0            19.8
People's Construction Bank of
China, enterprises and farmers     18.1            0.0            18.1
,,, .      , *.....       .....
Z&otal                    104.8            91.2          196.0
Estimaged Disbursement
Bank/IDA FY   1922       1923      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
-------------------------(US$ million)-------------------------
Annual         10.0      16.0      24.0      27.0      17.0      11.0      5.0
Cumulative     10.0      26.0      50.0      77.0      94.0    105.0   110.0
Eonomic Rate of Return:  Crops  38%, Fruit & Tree Crops 37%, Aquacult,Are 25%,
Livestock 29%, Agroindustry 32%, Overall Project 36%



HENAN AGBYCT22MUUA  D!VEIoIbm1N  PROJECT
Table of Contents
I* BACKGROUND   **e@****@es***@@ 
A. Cntroducton ..... .......................... .......... 1
3. Economic Deve1opments...........................         1
C. The Agriculture Sector ..........................*.      2
D.  The Livestock Subsector o. o......................      2
E.  Thel fsherlis Subsector .  ..... ...........o*o......   3
F.  Sectoral Objectlves and Bank Lending    .............   3
G.  Agriculture in Henan ......................... ooo.     5
H. Rural Poverty in Hena   ...... . . .   ...... ... . . ... . . ...    7
r.  Project Formulatlon and Rationale ..... o...........    7
II.  THE PROJECT AREAS ..........o.......................... 
A. Location .......  ............* ....................     8
B. Climate, Topography and8011 ......o..............        8
C. Water Resources, IrrLgatlon and DraLnage ..........      8
D. Land Use, Farm Size and PopulatLon        ...............    10
Z. Poverty ln the Projct Area ............. .........    11
Fo Present Development * - * * *...*.*...*.... .......... .... .....  11
0.  Support Servicess                              ..0      14
H.  Infrastructure .                                        16
1II.  THE PROJECT ..   ...............                            17
A.  Project Description .... ...... ..  ........... . . ... ..    17
Bo Detailed Features ........ ..        ...........  ,      18
C.  Status of PreparatLon ..... .. .. ...  ......... . ... ... .  27
D.  Implamentation Schedule ..........................      28
Z.  Cost EZtimates                                          28
F.  Financing .... ..                *                      29
G. Procurement ............. .o   .......................    30
H.  Disbursements ............     .......................    32
-. Accounts and Audits .... ...................... .....    32
J. Environmental Impact ..*.o.o ... ... .... o ........... ..    32
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMNT o .........................    34
A.  Project Organization ..o..o. ... .o.o.. ..   ..o.o... .............    34
B.  Management of ProductLon Activlties ......0.....4'...    35
Co FinancLal Management ......      ....... ........... .    36
D.  Execution of Project Works         .......................  37
B.  operation and Maintenance ........................      37
F.  Project Launch Workshop .....     .....................  38
O. Monitoring, EvaluatLon and Reporting  .............      38
ThLi report Ls based on the findLngs of en appralsal ssLiLon in
act/Wovember 1990. Members of the appraLsal team Lncluded R. JaLsaard
(MiLsion Leader) and U. El-Hanbali (IDA), p. Judd, 0. Guo, A.C. Brandsnbutq,
A. MaboLn, Tao Shan and Wang TLan-hou (Consultants).  others Lnvolved in the
preappraLsal were Messrs. Lo-ChaL Chan and C. Chew (Consultants). n Pr
revLwerc comprised Messrs./M55. ChoL, Price, lSrkoff (ASTAg); HLll, Tay
(A83AG)l Chalk (UNTIE) and de Haan (AGRPS). The Division Chief is r. J.J
Goldberg and the Departsient DLrector ls Mr. Shahld J&v0d Burki.



* 1.'v .
Page No
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES                               39
A. Productioni.............                               39
B. Markets . ....................................    41
C.  Prices ....      ... ......................   43
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .....................      4
A. Benefits .        ..............................      441..
B.  Employment and Incomes ..........................    45
C.  Employment Opportunities for Women ..............    45
D. Cost Rsc'very ...... . ....      ....... . . ....     46
E.  Financial and Economic Analysis .      ........      46
F. Risks ......     ......... . ... ....                 48
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..........   ...        49
Text Tables
3.1 Project Cost Summary
3.2 Procurement Profile
Annem*3
1.   Basic Provincial and Project Area Statistics
Climate
Water Supply and Demand
Basic Data for Each Sub-Component
Research and Training Programs
2.    Project Cost Summary
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Summary Accounts by Project Component
Project Component by Year
Procurement of Machinery, Equipment and Material
Estimated Disbursement Schodulo
3.   Cropped Areas, Yield and Productlon
Crop Budgets
Farm Models
Livestock
Rent and Cost Recovery
Main Conversion Factors Used
Border Prices for Principal Products and Inputs
Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis
Key Monitoring Intdicators
4.   Environmental Monitorlng Program
5.   Artificial Groundwater Recharge
6.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files



- v -
Charts
1. Organization
2.  Implementation Schedule
3. Procuroment Schedule
4. Cropping Calendar of Main Annual Crops
Ka           IBRD No. 22692  Project Areas



CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I, BACKGROMUND
A. Int;oductign
1.1       The Government of China has requested IDA assistance to finance an
integrated agricultural development project in the Province of Henan. The
project would cover 20 counties in Jiaozuo, Xinxiang, Puyang and Kaifeng
municipalities and Shangqiu Prefecture. The main objectives of the project are
to assist the government in accelerating and diversifying agricultural
dtvelopment in order to alleviate poverty, raise farmer incomes and increase
rural employment. The proposed project would emphasize the effective use of
water end other inputs to increase agricultural productivity in low-yielding
areas, develop marginal land for crop and fruit production, integrate the use of
crop by-products in livestock production, develop low-lying areas for fish
production and invest in related agroprocessing activities. The project was
identified in May 1989 and prepared in November/December 1989 by the Henan
Provincial Government with assistance from FAO/CP. A preappraisal mission
visited the project area in May/June 1990, and appraisal took place in
October/November 1990.
B. Economic Developments
1.2       Beginnuing in 1978 China Lnitiated economic reforms, first in rural
areas, then in urban areas and the external sector. These reform policies
contributed significantly to China's rapid GDP growth, which has averaged 9.5%
per annum over the last decade.  China's high investment rate (over 35% of GDP
since 1985) and its strong domestic savings performance also contributed to this
rapid growth. The reforms have affected the structure of the economy in the
following fundamental ways. Private product markets have been allowed to develop
widely in both rural and urban sectors. Fewer commodities are subject to
mandatory central plan targnts, and the share of key products distributed through
state-controlled channels has been reduced. Enterprises now have greater freedom
to determine the composition and prieing of output and decide on the disposition
of retained earnings. The volume and scope of finanial instruments and
transaction is vastly increased. Budgetary support of investment has been
significantly augmented by resources mobilized by the financial sector.
Provineial and local authorities have been given greater authority than in the
past to collect taxes, allocate resources, and plan aud manage economie activity.
1.3       Given the scope and depth of these reforms, the Government sineo 1985
has experienced difficulties in combining its growth and refora objectives with
the maintenance of macroeconomie stabillty. As long as fiscal and monetary
policies remained under effectlve central control, as they were in the early
years of reform, structural imbalances were contalned, but as the reforms
deepened, the central government's traditional control over both tho money supply
and revenue derived from state enterprises weakened, resulting in over-rapid
credit expansion and central government deficits during the 1985-1988 period.
The ensuing inflation induci6d the government to undertake stabilization efforts,
which comamnced in earnest in early 1989. While the Government's stabilitatLon
effort has relied too heavily on the reimposition of administrative controls -



with the result that there has been an unnecessary reduction in growth - greater
experience E the use of indirect controls has been and is being gained and
institutional development to support tham is proceeding apace.
1.4       While the offl.cial GNP growth rate was targeted at 5S in 1990, it will
probably only reach 2.7% because of the stabilization program, but the
government's intention is to resume rapid growth (in the 6% range) as soon as
possible. The Government's ability to achieve and sustain high rates of growth,
and at the same time maintain stable prices, will depend both on its success in
continuing the process of price and enterprise reform and on its ability to
substitute indirect for direct restraints on economic activity.
C. The Agriculture Sector
1.5       Agriculture in China - including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries - provides sustenance for over 1.16 billion people; it is an important
source of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30% of
the country's GDP. Only about 137 million ha of China's land araa of 960 million
ha are araole. Farming systems are intensive with heavy inputs of labor,
fertilizer, small machinery and water, Nearly half of the cropped area is
irrigated. Foodgrains occupy about 70% of total cropland and account for about
one-third of the value of agricultural output. Intensive farming has allowed
China to meet the basic food requirements of its population, about 22% of the
world's total, and to produce an increasingly sophisticated mix of cash and
commercial crops, from less than 118 of the world's arable land.
1.6        China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the
agricultural sector, provided impressive growth and structural change through the
introduction of the production responsibility system, increased producer prices
and enlarged the role of the market. The gross value of agricultural output
(GVAO) increased by 83% in real terms during the 1978-88 period (5.7% p.a.),
substantially faster than during the previous .5-year period (3.2% p .a.). While
significant growth in grain production was achieved in the early pkrt of the
period (peaking at 407 million tons in 1984), stagnating grain production has
been the Government's central concern in recent years with production ranging
between 391-402 million tons during the 1985-1988 period as farmers substituted
other crops for grain. Major recent efforts have been made to increase grain
production and the 1984 record was surpassed with 408 million tons in 1989 and
435 million tons in 1990. The Government's strategy to increase grain production
includes diverse measures, such as increasing state investment in agriculture,
mainly in irrigation rehabilitation and expansion, and introducing partial
reforms in grain procurement, distribution, prices and subsidies.
D. The Livestock Subsector
1.7       In 1989 livestock contributed 21% of GVAO, compared to 15% in 1978.
This change reflects the reformed incentives provided by liberalized livestock
production and markets.  Between 1985 and 1989 total meat production increased by
7% annually. The largest growth rates were for beef (22% p.a.) followed by
poultry meat (17%) and pork (6%). Cow milk and egg production grew by nearly 11%
and 8t pV.., respectively, in the same period. Animals provide food, additional
sources of income, organic crop manure, draft power and security. Draft animals
play a major role in rural transportation. In number and breadth of ownership,



3-
pigs predominate, with almost every household rearing at least cne or two on
household and crop residues. By weight, pork is estimated to comprise about 83%
of total meat consumption. Although livestock keeping remains largely
traditional for most farmers, there has been a rapid introduction of improved
commercial livescock production systems, particularly for pigs and poultry.
1.8       Despite the impressive growth in output, China's annual per capita meat
consumption of araund 11 kg is still among the lowest in the world. Per capita
milk consumptiott of only 4 kg is also extremely low, although it is much higher
in the larger cities. Vhile low, domestic demand for all livestock products is
increasing along with disposable income, which has nearly quadrupled in real
terms since 1978. Moreover, consumption patterns for livestock products are
changing in favor of leaner meat and dairy products, especially in urban areas.
Wool consumption has also increased substantially, and China is now a major
importer of raw wool.
E. The Fisheiea  Subseotor
1.9       China's fisheries subsector includes production of fish and shellfish
from both capture and culture. In both cases the products are harvested from
marine and fresh-water sources. Total output reached a record 11.7 million tons
in 1989, compared with 5.3 million in 1983, an increase of 117% in six years.
Marine aquatic products accounted for 6.6 million tons of the total and increased
by 10.9% in 1989 over 1987. The fresh-water catch accounted for 4.9 million tons
in 1989 and its volume increased by 11.9% over the -previous year. Out of the
total fresh-water catch in 1989, 3.8 million tons were from aquaculture (2.8
million tons from fish ponds and 1.0 million tons from culture in lakes,
reservoirs, and paddy fields). Ninety-seven percent of the .fresh-water
aquaculture production was fin fish and 3S crustaceans and molluscs.
1.10      The increase in production of aquatic products is mainly due to
increased production of cultured marine shrimp and fresh-water fish, which in
turn are mainly due to a large increase in pond area, better hatchery and
cultural technologies, and improved price incentives. Pond area increased from
0.9 million ha in 1982 to 1.4 million ha in 1988. Yields also inreased substan-
tially from 1982 to 1989 - from 0.7 t/ha to 2 t/ha for shrimp and from 1.0 t/ha
to 2.1 t/ha for fish. Production of shrimp grew at an average annual rate of 79*
between 1980-1989 (from 2,600 tons to 190,000 tons), and China is now the world's
largest producer of cultured shrimp with 32% of world production. Production of
fish grew at the average annual rate of 13%. Fresh-water fish are mainly for
domestic consumption and are an important source of protein in the Ch$nese diet.
Annual average consumption of aquatic products is about 9 kg per capita.
P. SF ctorAl Obiectives and Bank
1.11      The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector are
to increase production to meet the requirements created by population and income
growth and to increase income and employment in rural areas. Given China's
shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development planners have focused on
the need to increase the productivity of presently cropped areas and to develop
efficiently the few remaining areas of unutilized lands. A. major objective is to
stabilize grain output. Per capita and total value added in the crop subsector
are to be raised primarily by increasing the yield and quality of food, feed,



- 4
orchard, and industrial crops and aLso by increasing the volume of fgro-
processing. Although investment ln agriculture (including irrigation) declined
markedly during tho initial reforms of 1980-85, due to the enhanced profitability
of non-agricultural investments to sub-national levels of government and their
freedom to make these investments, agricultural investment has since rebounded at
all levels due to firm national and provincial commitmert to increasing
production.
1.12      The Government's objectives for iivestock and fisheries development are
to increase production for domestic consumption and exports and thereby improve
nutrition, earn foreign exchange end provide an additional source of income for
the rural population. High-value livestock products (meat and exotic wools) and
aquatic products (shrimp, eels, and pearls) are being targeted for export
markets. The livestock development strategy emphasizes superior breoding stock,
better quality feod, industrial (stall-fed) management systems, pasture
Improvement, new pasture specles, additional processing plants, and improved
veterinary and breeding servicms. The aquatic development strategy emphasizes
establishment of aquaculture systems on land unsuitable for crop cultivation -
fresh-water culture in swamps, floodplains, marshes and poorly drained land and
marine culture in coastal lowlands, shoals and mudflats.
1.13      Bank Group agricultural lending to date has comprised 25 operations
amounting to US62.5 billion and has covered a wide spectrum of geographic areas
and subsectors, with overall focuses on land development, irrigation and drainage
(5 projects), upgradin- of agricultural support services including agricultural
research, education, credit and seed improvement (7 projects), development of
specialized subsectors including rubber, forestry, fruit and fisherics (8
projects), and area development (5 projects). It is designed to support the
Covernment's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production through
more efficlent use of land, water, capital end labor resources and through the
improvement of support services such as credit, research and agricultural
education. In recent years, the Bank Group has supported a series of provincial
development projects in which an area development approach has been applied. In
these projects, the responsibility for proposing, preparing and imp1ementing the
projects and repaying project funds rests with provincial and lower-level
governments.  A major objective of several recent Bank projtc._ has been to
assist in the Government's ongoing reform process. The Rural Sector Adjustment
Loan (Cr. 1932-CHA & Ln. 2967-CHA), which was approved during 1988, contributed
to the articulation of the overall reform process, and several projects approved
in 1989 and 1990, notably the National Afforestation (Cr. 2145-CHA), Mid-Yangtze
Agricultural Development (Cr. 2172-CHA) and Fourth Rural Credit'projlects (Ln.
3265-CHA & Cr. 2182-CHA), contain significant subsectoral reform elements.
1.14      Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule. Experience in previous Bank agricultural
projects in China is that physical works have been completed on time or ahead of
schedule.  Disbursements for agricultural projects, in fact, usually outpace
those in other sectors.  Notable features of all the projects are che high
standard of project management, the active participation of farmers and the
effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels. Two projects
that supported land development and agricultural intensification [North China
Plain Agriculture Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) and Heilongjiang Land Reclamation
Project (Ln. 2261-CHA & Cr. 1347-CHA)I and the First Rural Credit Project (Cr.



- S -
1462-CHA) have been comploted. The project completion reports for these projects
indit.ate that implementation was successful, that sconomic rates of return
reached or exceeded appraisal estimates, and that the technology used for lay d
development and drainage was sound and appropriate for wider application.
1.15      Lessons learnod from closely related completed projects have been used
in the design of this project. Much of the present project area lies in the
North Chlna Plain, and successful agricultural development dependr on many of the
sain design features that contrLbuted to the successful Lmplomentation of the
North China Plain Agrlculture Development Project (NCPAP). The most important
lessons learned ln the NCPAP were: (a) specific irrigation and drainage
technologies must be used to correct waterlogging and soll salLnity problems,
(b) sufficient inputs must be supplied to maintain agricultural productivity in
reclaimed are, (c) thore must be effective coordLnation of organizational units
at all levels, and (d) the Project Management Office (PMO) must have financial
and implementation autonomy.
1.16      Lessons learned from the rmcently completed Bank-managed IFAD Hebei
Agricultural Development Project, which lncreased agricultural production through
a program of groundwater development, improved drainage and decreased salinity.
are dlrectly relevant because of the similar ecological conditions of the two
provinces. These lessons were that: (a) effectlve salinity control has to
carefully balance conjunctive use of surface and groundwater, (b) alfalfa is a
suLtable crop for reducing soil salinity, and (c) the nutritional value of crop
residues can be significantly increased by amonification. These lessons have
been Lncorporated in the design of the proposed project.
G. Agriculture in Henan
.?17    Henan Province is situated astrlde the Yellow River In east-central
China. It is bordered by Shandong and Anhui provinces to the east, Hebei and
Shanxi provinces to the north, Shaanxi. provinec to the west and Hubel province to
the south (IBRD Map No. 22692). The province has a population of about 82 million
- the second largest in China - with 87% in farm households. It has a land area
of about 167,000 km2. About 56% of the land is flat land in the North China
Plain; the remainder is composed mostly of hlIly and undulating lands outside the
plain. Administratively, the provinee is divided into five prefectures and 12
municipalities, with 120 counties and 2,116 townships ln all. The elimate is
continental and monsoonal with average annual rainfall of 785 mm, ran;ing from
600 to 1,200 mm. Of the 16.7 million ha in the province, 6.9 million (42%) are
arable and 3.4 milllon of these (49%) aro irrigated. Pasture coves -bout 0.3
million ha (2% of the total area of the province), fruit orchards about 0.5
million ha (3%), forest about 1.7 million ha (10), and wasteland and non-
agrieultural land about 7.3 aillion ha (430). The total cropped area in 1989 was
estimated at 11.7 million ha, indicating a 167S cropping intensity. Wheat is the
most important crop, covering 49S of the cropped area, followed by corn 21%,
cotton 9S, soybeans 7S, sweet potatoes 6*, ricea 4, and peanuts 4%.
1.18      Agriculture accounted for Y45 billion in 1989, or about 32% of the
gross provincial output of Y140 billlon. WLthin the agricultural sector, crops
accounted for 69% of gross provincial agricultural output, livestock for 18%,
forestry for 4S, fishery for 1% and village ..ndustry and crop processing for 8S.
Grain, the major crop category, increased rapidly from 16.7 million tons in 1978



- 6-
to 25 million tons in 1984, fluctuated around that level thereafter and reached a
total output of 31.5 million tons in 1989. Cotton production increased from 0.2
million tons of lint in 1978 to 0.9 million tons in 1984 and then declined to 0.5
million tons in 1989. Oil seeds, mainly peanuts, rapeseed and sesame, increased
from 0.4 million tons in 1978, to 0.5 million tons in 1984 and then to 1.2
million tons in 1989. Henan ranks third in grain and cotton production among
Chinese provinces. Tree crops, both fruit and forest species, form an integral
part of the farming systems in the province. It has been estimated that about
2.2 million ha, representing 13% of the total land area in the province, is under
tree crops.
1.19      The livestock population in the province is estimated to include 8
million cattle. 1.2 million sheep, 10 million goats and 14 million pigs. Pig
production, which is more intensive in foed than ruminant production, increased
by only 4% pa. during 1987-89, compared to 14% p.a. for ruminants, because the
price of feed increased faster during the period than the value of the residues
and by-products fed to ruminants. Provincial fish production in 1988 is
estimated at 93,900 tons, 88% of which was from culture. Fresh-water culture
fishery has developed rapidly since 1984, with pond areas increasing from 940 ha
in 1984 to 69,000 ha in 1988. Fish production over the period incrwbsed even
more rapidly than meat production, with an Lncrease of 22% pa.
1.20      Henan's Eighth Five Year Plan (1991-1995) emphasizes rural reforms and
the development of the agricultural sector as important mechanisms to accelerate
economic growth. It forecasts real gross provincial product to increase by 8%
pa. and real gross provincial agricultural output by 4% p.a. The Provincial
Government continues to support the development of the household responsibility
system and plans to assist farmers with increased provision of technical
services. In this effort, the Province expects to increase its investment in
water resources and the development of high-yield, disease-resistant crops. In
line with national policies, plans have been made to adjust output prices of
grains and cotton so as to increase farmer incentives and also to increase the
supply of inputs and credit for both crop and livestock production. The Province
will continue to support the development of rural enterprises and has targeted
their development in poor areas of the province in order to alleviate poverty and
income disparities.
1.21      The major constraints to increasing crop yields and production in the
province are the lack of fertilizers, irrigation water and certified seeds of
improved varieties, on the one hand, and the presence of waterlogging. excess
salinity, drought and flooding, on the other. The reduction in provLsncial grain
production in 1986, for instance, was attributed to drought. With better water
resource management to produce more reliable water supplies, the effects of
drought could be minimized and moro land could be brought into cultivation,
providing that price incentives were also available. Timely availability of
water, along with appropriate and adequate inputs, would substantially improve
crop yields in the areas of low to medium productivity.
1.22      Water Resources in Henan:  The Yellow Riverl is the major water
resource in Henan. The average annual runoff entering and passing through Henan
is 41.3 billion m3 out of total of 47.4 billion m3. The planned utilizable
1   The Yellow River originates on the North side of Bayangela Mountain
Range, flows through Sichuan, Gansu, Ningxia, Inner Mongolia, Shanxi, Henan
and Shandong Provinces and finally emptLes into the Bo Sea. There are



. 7 -
surface water for year 2000 would be 20.74 billion m3 at 75% probability, of
which 5.54 billion m3 is allocated to Henan by the Yellow River Conservancy
Commission (YRCC). The average annual shallow groundwater resource amounts to
20.5 billion m3 of whlch about 11.7 billion m3 ar drawn nnually.  Deep aquifers
exist but are little exploited as yet. The uneven geographical distribution and
seasonal concentration of rainfall - about 60% occurs during July/September -
inevitably result in periodic floods, waterlogging and drought in various parts
of the province. Irrigation, drainage and flood protection works have been
undertaken in the past to address these problems, and available water resources
are being used with considerable intensity. So far 9,400 irrigation schemes,
almost all of them (97%) irrigating less than 600 ha per scheme, have been
constructed. There are 2,500 reservoirs of different sizes with & total storage
capacity of 15 blllion m3. In total, 440,000 shallow wells and 9,500 low lift
pumps have been installed throughout the province. There is still considerable
scope for expanding irrigation further through better water management.
additional wells to exploit shallow groundwater, and the conjunctive use of
surface and groundwster rosources in certain areas.
H. Rural Poverty in Han=
1.23      The rural agricultural population of Henan is very poor compared with
the national rural population.  In 1989, per capital rural income in Henan was
Y457 (US$88), as compared to the national r4ral average of Y602 (US$116), ranking
26th out of 30 provinces and autonomous regions. According to a 1985 household
survey, there were 13.8 million rural people with income below Y200 (US$38) in
China and 2.9 million or about 20% of these were in Henan. In 1989, Henan still
had 30 counties that have an average per capita income of Y338 (US$65) and the
Government has classified them as poor counties. The main reasons for this
poverty are: (a) poor resource endowments - infertile lands with limited
irrigation water and significant salinity and waterlogging, (b) susceptibility to
floods and droughts and to unpredictably severe weather, (c) poor transport
infrastructure, (d) poor communications, which limits farmers', opportunities to
learn about new agricultural technologies (particularly in remote areas), and (a
poorly developed commercial infrastructure, which diminishes farmers' production
incentives. The project would serve several of the poorest areas in Henan.
I. Project Formulation and Rationale
1.24      The integrated agricultural development approach of the proposed
project is designed to address most of the major constraints limiting
agricultural productivity in Henan's poorest areas.  Bank Croup involvement in
the project would extend and promote the efficient use of limited resources,
introduce new production technologies and encourage effective environmental
protection practices. Experience from recently completed Bank-financed projects
would be used in formulating the project design (paras. 1.15-1.16). Bank
involvement would introduce now techitology by strengthening rcsearch and
extension facilities, by training farmers, researchers and extension agents and
by providing technical assistance. It would also introduce environmental
standards in the design of agroprocessing plants, develop monitoring systems and
enforce effluent control standards.
several storage dams constructed on the Yellow River. Henan is planning to
construct the XLaolangdi Dam in year 2000, for storage, river regulation,
power and sediment reduction downstream from the Dam.



II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Locatlon
2.1       The proposed project area is situated on both sides of the Yellow
River in the northern and eastern parts of Henan province, with a total area of
2.2 million ha. It covers 20 counties in Jiaozuo, Xinxiang, Puyang, Kaifeng
municipalities and Shangqiu Prefecture and comprises 352 townships and 9,526
villages. Project locations are shown on IBRD Map No. 22692 and area statistics
are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
B. Climate. To2ograhX and Soils
2.2       Climate.  The project area has a continental monsoon climate, windy
and dry in spring (March-May), hot and rainy in summer (June-August), cool and
rainy in autumn (September-November) and very cold and dry in winter (December
to February). The mean annual temperature is 140C. The maximum temperature is
about 270C in July and the minimum is -40C in January. The frost-free period is
about 210 days, and there is sunshine about 2,400 hours per year. Annual
average rainfall for the project area is 589 mm compared with 785 mm for the
province.  Inter-annual variations in rainfall are large, ranging from 322 mm to
1,190 mm. Most rainfall occurs during July to September resulting in floods,
excessive water run-off and waterlogging in certain parts of the project area.
Rainfall is low from November to April, and severe drought occurs about once in
ten years. Mean annual evaporation in the project area ranges from 1,500 to
2,000 mm. Sand storms occur during spring, for an average of about 10 days/yr.
and adversely affect crop yields. Climatological data are compiled in Annex 1,
Table 2.
2.3       ToDogranhv and Soils.    The project area is in the alluvial plains of
the Yellow River and is generally flat with a slight slope from the west to the
east (the slope ranges from 1:3000 in the west to 1:6000 in the east). Average
elevation above sea level decreases from 100 m in the west to 40 m in the east.
The flatness of the land has resulted in a number of low-lying areas that are
partially saline due to slow natural drainage. The soil is typically a mixture
of sand, silt and loam deposited from the old course of the Yellow River. This
typical soil is easy to cultivate because of its fine texture, but it retains
water poorly. Overall it has low fertility, being low in total nitrogen and
phosphorous, but it does have adequate potassium. On wastelands, the soils are
even lower in fertility. The majority of soils in the project area :will sustain
satisfactory crop yields, providing that irrigation, drainage, nitrogen and
phosphorous requirements are met.
C. Water Resources. Irrigation and Drainage
2.4       Water Resources.  There are three major sources of water for
irrigation in the project area: Yellow River water groundwater and local
surface water. An average volume of 3.2 billion ml of Yellow River water is
diverted annually through 26 diversion schemes mainly by gravity to areas
varying in size from 1,000 to 80,000 ha. The four diversion schemes to be
improved by the project currently utilize an average of about 0.5 billion m3 of
water. With the project, this would be expected to increase to 0.9 billion m3



X 9 X
in year 2000. An additional 1.I blllion m3 of river water would also be
required for aquifer recharge if all the province's recharge schemes are
implemented (para. 2.8), resultLng In an incremental requirement for river water
of 1.5 billion m3. At present, the province diverts 3.8 billion m3 from the
Yellow River for both agriculture and other uses. Slnce the province's Yellow
River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) allocatlon in the yoar 2000 is 5.54 billion
m3, there is ample scope to meet the increased river water requirements of the
project. The construction of the proposed Xiaolangdi Dam upstream of the
project area would not affect the overall YRCC allocation to the province. It
would have an important effect on evening out seasonal flows and would markedly
increase water availabillty durlng the critical months of June and July (Annex
1, Table 3.1).
2.5       Shallow groundwater is another source of water. The total amount of
shallow groundwater resources annually available in the project area is
estimated at 4.9 billion m3, with the minimum utilizable amount estimated at 3.8
billion m3. The project would utilize groundwater in two ways: (a)
conjunctively with river water within the four diversion schemes, and (b) as the
sole water source in the areas outside the diversion schemes. The proiect would
use only 0.35 billion m3 for conjunctive use by the year 2000, an amount that
would be easily available. The area outside the diversion schemes would also
have a surplus of potential well water in year 2000. Projections show that
supply of groundwater in this area would be about 1.5 billion, and the demand
for well irri ation water (and also municipal and industrial use) would be about
1.1 billion m , resulting in a surplus of 0.4 billion m3.
2.6      Local surface runoff from small rivers and streams in Henan, the final
source, is estimated at 2.0 billion m3. Unfortunately, the amount in any given
year is unreliable, and thus this resource has limitsd use. The project would
use only 0.038 billion m3. (Detailed analysis can be found in Annex 1, Table
3.2).
2.7       IrrigatLon   In the project area, 0.7 million ha out of the total of
1.2 million ha of cultivated land are under irrigation. Of this, about 68% is
Irrigated by shallow tubewells, 30% by the diversion schemes and 2% by other
surface irrigation sources. The 26 diversion schemes in the project area have
large headworks facilities and main canals, constructed with central government
funds under an overall Yellow River flood control programme. Most of these
schemes, however, have incomplete conveyance and distribution networks and
associated structures, except for the People's Victory Canal Project. For lack
of proper infrastructure and sufficient integration of surface and groundwater
use, only about 20% of the originally designed command areas in these schemes
are under irrigation. The four diversion schemes selected under the project
have the least major investment beyond the headworks and the main canals, and
assistance is badly needed due to the limited ability of local governments in
the poor areas to develop the schemes themselves.
2.8       Groundwater development in the project area has grown steadlly durlng
the last few years. At present there are some 141,400 shallow wells irrigating
about 0.5 million ha. Most of these are 40-60 m deep, 85% of them are equipped
with diesel or electrlc pumps deslgned to yIeld about 40 m3/hr and irrigate an
average command area of about 3-4 ha/well. An estlmated 6,000 of these wells
requlre rehabilitation and 2,000 need to be permanently abandoned because they



- 10 -
are sited too densely or because of exorbitant rehabilitation costs. It is also
estimated that a further 18,000 shallow wells are under-performing because of
silting and failure of pumping equipment. While several localities in the
project area have potential for further groundwater irrigation development, in
some localities, groundwater has been excessively drawn, especially in Puyang
Municipality. The Provincial Government is currently planning to invest in four
compensation schemes to divert 1.1 billion m3 of Yellow River water annually to
recharge such groundwater areas, and one of these schemes would be financed as a
pilot scheme under the project.
2.9       Drainage and Flood Contrgl.  Inadequate drainage was the main cause of
failure of early efforts to use diverted Yellow River water for irrigation.
This deficiency has been partially alleviated in many areas through improvement
of the main drainage channels, but the laterals and sub-latorals often remain
incomplete with spacing that is too wide and ditches that are too shallow.
Improvements aimed to correct these deficioncies would be financed under the
project in 40,200 ha in three counties of Shangqiu prefecture.1
2.10      At present, land in Dongsha river basin2 suffers from frequent
waterlogging due to the low drainage capability of the river and the damming
effect of undersized of broken bridges. As a result, groundwater levels rise
regularly to 20 cm below ground surface in flood season and cause serious crop
damage. Some works to regulate the river were carried out under the NCPAP. The
project would finance the completion of the system.
D. Land Use. Farm Size and Pogulation
2.11       Approximately 55% of the project area (2.2 million ha) is cultivated
with annual crops (1.2 million ha), orchards (0.05 million ha), grassland (0.3
million ha), forest (0.1 million ha) and uncultivated land (0.6 million ha).
The Government considers that the potential exists to improve the productivity
of 0.5 million ha of low-yielding land and convert 7,365 ha of wasteland into
orchards. The low yielding land includes rainfed, waterlogged, and flood- or
drought-affected areas. The total population of the project area is about 12
million people (15% of the province), of whom 94% are engaged in agriculture.
There are about 2.6 million farm families with an average of 4.5 members in each
household. The average land-holding is 0.1 ha per person, of about 0.45 ha per
family. Almost all farmers own less than one hectare of land. Agricultural
lands are operated under contract by individual households. In general the time
period of contracts is about 15 years but in the case of orchards, which have a
long production cycle, contracts typically run for 30 to 50 years. Because of
the limited land available for agriculture production, cultivation is intensive.
I   In Shangqui Prefecture, the project would not cover the 35,000 ha of
formerly waterlogged/saline/alkaline/wasteland areas sucessfully reclaimed
under the Bank-financed North China Plain Agriculture Project.
2 Dongsha river is the largest tributory of Huihe river in Shangqui
Prefecture. It originates from the south side of the old Yellow River
course, flows through Shangqui city and several counties before it joins
the Huihe river, with total length of 106 km and catchment area of 394 sq
km. It does not provide water for irrigation under the project.



- 11. -
E. Poverty in the Proiect Area
2.12      Farmers in the project area are very poor even in comparison with the
rest of the province, with annual per capita income of about Y392 (US$75). The
poorest 47 townships (with 16% of the project-area population), have an average
per capita income of less than Y300 (US$58), and there are two townships that
have an average per capita income of less than Y200 (US$38). The project area
is poorer than the province as a whole (Para. 1.23) because being in the flood
plain of the Yellow River, it experiences frequent floods and the land is
especially infertile, saline and waterlogged. Agricultural production is
characterized by lower yields and less diversification than in the rest of the
province. As in the rest of the province, poor infrastructure and
communications limit market access and opportunities to learn about new
technologies, and poorly developed commercial infrastructure limits farmers'
incentives to increase production. There is also little rural industry to
provide employment. The project area also has a relatively high population
growth rate (1.8% p.a. vs. the provincial rate of 1.4%), which has contributed
to a decline in farm size and to a relatively high dependency ratio.
2.13      The Province has attempted to combat poverty by food relief, provision
of income generating resources - e.g., goats and land for cultivating fodder,
assistance in farming activities, and promotion of non-agricultural employment
by developing village and township enterprises. Funding constraints have
limited these efforts, and only a minor proportion (20%) of the affected
population has benefitted to date. The proposed project would assist the
Government in providing development assistance to the poor farm population in
the project area.
F. Present Development
2.14      Atricul-tur.   In the area proposed for irrigation and drainage
improvement, the net cultivated area is 282,000 ha and the total crop area is
472,000 ha giving an overall cropping intensity of 167%. Wheat is the major
crop in the project area, accounting for 50% of the total cropped area followed
by corn, paddy and soybeans (29% for the three), oilseeds (10%), cotton (8%) and
other crops (3%). Approximately 64% of the cropped area is rainfed, 16% is
subject to seasonal waterlogging and associated salinity and only about 20% is
partially irrigated.
2.15      The present crop rotations are as follows: 60% of the cultivated area
is planted to winter wheat followed by or intercropped with cotton, corn or
peanuts, 30% is planted to wheat followed by soybean and sesame or corn, 7% is
planted to cotton and the remaining area (3%) is planted to rapeseed followed by
sesame and peanuts. Since wheat is not harvested until June, cotton is often
relay-planted in the wheat fields, thereby increasing intensity. This .s
achieved by 3kip-row planting of wheat and either direct seeding or trans-
planting cotton seedlings in the spaces. Corn is also relay-planted with wheat.
With early-maturing hybrid corn varieties, planting can be delayed until after
the wheat harvest, and this is practiced to a limited extent in the project
area. Soybeans are often directly seeded into wheat stubble. Most of the
peanut crop is sown in the spring under rainfed conditions on the lighter sandy
soils. Rice is transplanted in some low lying areas. Farming is mainly carried
out by hand labor with simple equipment which is considered adequate to handle



- 12 -
present farm requirements. Plowing and cultivation are carried out using a mix
of small tractors, oxen and hand labor. Most farmers attempt to use improved
high yielding varieties of most crops but are sometimes constrained by
availability of seeds. The average yield of most crops in the project area is
below the provincial average.
2.16      Fruit orchards occupied about 107,000 ha in 18 counties in the project
area, comprising apples (74%) and apricots, plums, pomegranates, grapes and
Chinese dates (ZizoRhus juiuba) (26%). These orchards are concentrated in
specific regions depending on tradition, farmer knowledge and soil types.
Shangqui produces apples and grapes, Kaifang apricots and pomegranates and
Jiaozuo plums, etc. Production of fruits has increased substantially in the
last few years due to the higher prices allowed by liberalized fruit markets.
However, fruit yields are low due to old varieties, outdated technologies, and
poor management. The Bureau of Forestry (BF) has recently developed high-yield
varieties producing quality fruit and plans to promote fruit production in the
project area. The sandy loam soil in the project area is good for fruit
production. To increase farmers' income, the project would develop 14,400 ha of
low productivity land presently used for field crops and also 1,900 ha of
village wasteland into orchards.
2.17      Vegetables for winter consumption have been produced in tunnel
greenhouses in moderate quantities in Henan Province since 1970, and production
technology is adequate. Development has been delayed, however, due to limited
supply of plastic sheets for greenhouses. The project would provide this
construction material, other inputs and training.
2.18     Fertilizer and Pesticides.   Compost from straw, animal manure and
night soil is commonly used but the supply is inadequate. Due to lack of animal
manure; heavy reliance is therefore placed on chemical fertilizer, with emphasis
on the use of nitrogen. Most fertilizer used is low grade, domestically
produced with low analysis. Nitrogen usage for wheat doubled over the past
decade, but average yields have leveled off recently because existing wheat
varieties are susceptible to lodging and are not tolerant to pest and disease.
Research institutes recommend the increase use of phosphate and organic manure
in order to reduce lodging and obtain significant yield increases. In addition
more emphasis should be diverted to varietal development.
2.19      The principal pests and diseases on major crops in the project area
are: wheat - rust, powdery mildew and aphids; cotton - aphid and leaf blight;
corn - corn borer, and peanuts - leaf spot. A wide range of insects attacks
vegetables and fruit trees. Control measures are well documented for most
diseases and pests. Biological control and integrated pest management
especially for cotton are well-duveloped but due to inadequate linkages between
the research and extension services, available pest-control technology is not
widely applied. A majority of farmers use agrochemicals for pest control on
cotton, wheat, fruit and vegetables. Limited availability, variable quality and
pest resistance to some local products are the main constraints leading to
significant crop losses. In 1990, pests and disease reduced yields by 30%.
Present wheat varieties have low resistance to the new race of rust and are also
susceptable to powdery mildew. Since breeding and distribution of high-yield,
resistant varieties takes many years, control in the short run will be dependent
on cultural techniques, e.g., planting density, rates 'f nitrogen, phosphate and
organic manure application, and use of pesticides.



- 13 -
2.20      Aed.  Currently all project counties have seed processing centers and
distribution networks handling wheat, corn, rice, peanut, soybean and cotton
seeds but only about 50% of the wheat, corn and peanut seed, 30% of the cotton
seed and 20% of soybean seed that is required is available. The quality of seeds
is poor due to a shortage of pure quality breeder seeds and untested hybrid
corn, soybean and peanut seeds are provided for multiplication. County seed
centers have limited processing capacities (0.5-1.3 t/hr.) and are only equipped
with primary cleaning equipment. The project would assist in increasing
processing capacity. The Provincial Seed Administration (PSA) would organize an
adequate supply of quality seed for the project, inspect the quality of field
supervison, and promote marketing and distribution. Cotton seed processing is
managed by separate units within several of the County Seed CompanLes (CSCs)
with substantial cotton production. There are three recently built, large
cotton seed ginneries in the project area, but they are poorly maintained. The
field inspection, seed certification and seed testing system for cotton needs to
be improved. The project would upgrade the performance of the cotton seed
units.
2.21      Tree crops seedlings produced by BF nurseries are not adequate for the
project. The BF would contract private nurseries to produce the required
seedlings and would train operators of these nurseries in production, supplied
them at costs seeds, root stocks and grafting materials, and provide technical
support and supervision.
2.22      Livestock.  There are 3.9 million large animals (cattle and equines),
3.9 million pigs, 2.7 million goats and 0.5 million sheep in the project area.
Cattle production has been increasing since 1986 due to higher meat prices and
an increased use of by-products from wheat and other crops as fodder. Goat
production has increased substantially due probably to the recent development of
an export market for goat hides. The sheep population, however, declined over
the last seven years due to increasing competition for forage resources from
cattle and the increased cost of concentrate for ewes and lambs. Pig production
has been fluctuating depending on the relative prices of feed and pork but has
been following a moderately increasing trend.
2.23      Livestock productivity in the project area is low due to lack of
quality feed, poor quality breeds, inadequate farm management, and poorly
supported veterinary and animal husbandry extension programs. Cattle production
is particularly constrained by the lack of quality feed, especially in the
winter, and by inferior breeds.  For most farmers, cattle production is a side
line depending largely on straw, hay, leaves, wheat bran and corn stover for
fodder. The average household sells a fattened steer or heifer every third year
and a breeder every 5-6 years. Sheep and goat production is also typically a
sideline enterprise for households. The average flock consists of 2 to 5 ewes,
with one ram shared among 25 families, and annual household offtake is four to
ten market lambs. The management system is semi-extensive, and sheep rely heavily
on grazing and crop by-products. The Henan Huai goat breed is famous for Lts
quality hide. To a somewhat greater extent than sheep, goats graze on marginal
pasture and forage on tree leaves and consume weeds pulled from cropland.
Typically, they have occasional access to crop by-products. The average goat
flock size is two to five does producing about 2 to 3 kids each per year.



- 14 -
2.24      The Henan Bureau of Animal Hub'6andry (HBAH) is beginning to implement a
grassland improvement program. Of the total 105,600 ha of unimproved grassland
in the project area, about 26,000 ha are currently being developed outside the
project for livestock grazing or fodder production and about 25,000 ha for
alfalfa. The project would develop an additional 10,500 ha for alfalfa
production and would emphasize soil development and stabilization to prevent
overgrazing on the existing ranges. Straw ammonification Ls an important
technique as is intercropping of green feeds for spring feeding to help alleviate
seasonal nutritional imbalances of ruminants.
2.25      Broiler chicken production in Henan is a relatively new enterprise but
is growing very rapidly. Broilers are started off as day-old chicks under gas-
lit or electrical brooders, after which they are tt,sferred to grower houses on
deep-bedded floors. Broiler feeds are routinely medicated with growth promoters.
Production technology is in need of much improvement. Most mortality is due to
inadequately vaccinated parent stock, poor hatchery hygiene and egg-transferred
infections. Building designs lack adequate ventilation, resulting in the
cessation of production in July, the hottest month. Hatcheries also have
inadequate equipment and hygiene. Abattoir capacity is limited.
2.26      Pig numbers have increased in the province as a result'of higher prices
derived from the free market system. Pig production in Henan can be divided into
household and commercial productlon. Backyard pig production utilizes household
and farm by-products and very little commercial feed and produces low-value fatty
meat for local markets. In contrast, commercial farms produce lean pork and
superior breeds, and proper feeding is required. National policy is to increase
the lean-to-fat ratio and dressing percentage of commercial producers by
encouraging them to use exotic breeds and proper feeding practices, but the
impact of this policy has been limited because of the price differential between
lean and fat pork, which is too small to cover the extra costs of lean pork
production; commercial pig farms producing lean pork therefore have to rely on
exports (largely to Hong Kong).
G. SuMoort Services
2.27      Research. The Provincial Science and Technology Committee, a permanent
body reporting to the Governor's office, is the principal body in the Province
determining policy and priorities for research, reviewing research results and
allocating funds for special research projects in all subsectors. The Henan
Academy of Agricultural Sciences (HAAS) is the major research organization in the
Province. It has 12 specialized commodity institutes with a-well equipped
central research laboratory and an Agricultural Science and Tochnology
Information Institute. The Institute works through a network of 17 research
institutes at the municipality and prefectural levels and 32 experimental
stations at the county level. HAAS runs a comprehensive program on breeding,
agronomy, crop rotation, soil fertility and integrated pest management and has
achioved notable successes in breeding wheat, corn, soybean and peanut varieties.
It is an affiliate of the National Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
(CAAS), participates in National Research programs and has close professional
links with national commodity institutes. The National Instltute for Wheat, Corn
and Cotton Research supported under the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
1516-CHA) is located at Anyang in Henan Province, close to the project area.
This institute has advanced programs on wheat and cotton breeding, development of



- 15 -
pest and disease resistant varieties, and integrated pest management. Henan
Agricultural University (HAU) also plays an important role in research and
breeding programs. Limited operational budgets are a key constraint for research
activities. Beyond this, new technology and improved varieties have not been
adequately evaluated and disseminated.
2.28      For livestock, the HAU Faculty of Animal Science and Veterinary
Medicine and the HAAS have comprehensive research programs on disease control,
animal breeding, animal husbandry and fodder production. Imported Charolais and
Simmental bulls are being used to upgrade native Yellow and Nanyang Cattle.
Ammonification techniques on low feed value fodders are being investigated to
improve nutrition of beef cattle. The small-tail Han sheep is being upgraded by
crossing with superior imported mutton broeds. Broiler pr - %tion techniques are
being upgraded through the use of superior imported brood       tock, and a
hybridisation program is underway to improve the lean-to-f._ zatio in pigs, using
Landrace, Duroc and Hampshire boars on improved local stock.
2.29      The Water Conservancy Bureau (WCB), through the Water Conservancy
Institute and field stations, is carrying out resoarch on irrigation, crop and
water requirements, water saving techniques, and water management for waterlogged
and saline-akaline areas. Adaptive agricultural research is carried out by
County Agrotechnical Stations under the Bureau of Agriculture. The main
constraints to research and transfer of technology to farmers are limited
research budgets and inadequate linkages between research institutes and county
field services.
2.30      Extnuin.  Extension services serving agriculture, livestock,
fisheries and forestry are generally well established in the project area but
need to be strengthened at the lower levels. There ore agrotechnical centers at
provincial, prefectural/municipal and county levels, agrotechnical stations at
the township level, and farmer-operated demonstration farms and part-time trained
farmer-technicians at the village level. Extension services suffer from lack of
facilities, insufficient training, and inadequate equipment and materials. The
project would finance training and procurement of necessary facilities. A major
inadequacy in extension is the lack of adequate services for women. Since the
extension workers and technlcians who now serve the villages are almost all men,
there is often a social barrier impeding their ability to reach producers of
small livestock and certain crops, who are primarily women. There is therefore a
need for a significant number of female extension workers and village technicians
who could gain the confidence of female farmers.
2.31      Agricultural Credit.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is the
largest provider of institutional credit in Henan. It is widely represented
throughout the province with 20 branches at the prefecture level, 181 sub-
branches at the county levels, 6,584 business offices and 23,518 deposit offices
and rural credit cooperatives at the township and village levels. ABC resources
are obtained from deposits, loans, profits and state budgets. In 1990, the Henan
ABC has a portfolio of Y26.8 billioq of which 70% is for rural commerce (for
grain and cash crop purchases), 15% for agriculture, 10% for rural industries,
and 5 for state and collective industries. Among agricultural loans, seasonal
loans for inputs account for 80%, followed by loans for wells and machinery with
11%. Livestock, greenhouse and orchard loans account for the remaining 9%. The
maximum size of loan provided by ABC is small and not sufficient to cover all



- 16 -
investments desired by farmers. For example, loans for livestock, orchards,
greenhouses and wells are normally Y400, Y70-80/mu, Y500 and Y1,000-2,000,
respectively. Loans of this size enable farmers to obtain only half a cow, half
the seedlings needed for an orchard, plastic sheet for the greenhouse or a well
without any structure. Borrowers are expected to contribute up to 60% of the
value of the investment. Thus loans are only accessible in the main to higher
income farmers. The project would establish revolving funds aiming to relax this
constraint.
2.32      ABC's nominal rates of interest are now 10.1% and 18.0% for loans of
one year and over five years, respectively, which are somewhat lower than in 1989
due to the stabilization program. At the present rate of inflation of about 3-
4%, ABC rates of interest are positive in real terms.
H. Infrastructau
2.33      TXansRort.  Henan's transportation infrastructure is well developed.
Its rail network density ranks first in China and has a total length of 3,400 km.
It includes the important north-south Beijing-Guangzhou route and the east-west
Longhai railway.  Highways total about 400,000 km and connect the province well
to Shandong in the east, Shanxi in the west, Hebei in the north and Hubei in the
south. The rural road network linking counties with townships and villages is
adequate. The province has three airports and thirteen air-routes.
2.34      Power.  The Central China Power Grid (CCPG), which provides the main
electrical supply to the project area, is currently undergoing a major upgrade.
Extensive new generating capacity is being installed, and the distribution
network and sub-stations are being modernized. The CCPG operates at 5.00
kilovolts (kV) and covers the provinces of Henan, Jiangxi and Hubei, together
with all metropolitan cities in the region. The total generating capacity within
the province is 5,300 megawatts (MW).  Henan provided 29,900 gig: -Jatt 1 urs (gVh)
of electrical energy to the CCPG in 1989 at a capacity utilizatio.a of 64.2%.
Demand for electrical power in Henan has increased by 7-8% per annum during the
past five years and is projected by the Power Bureau to continue at this rate for
the next five years. Henan is cvrrently a net importer of power, largely from
Hubei Province. New generating capacity scheduled to come on line by the end of
1995 would generate an additional 3,000 mW and provide an estimated 17,OOOgWh/yr
to the CCPG. This would be more than adequate to meet the electrical energy
requirement of all components of the project, estimated at 690 gWh/yr. The Henan
Power Bureau has confirmed its commitment to provide all components of the
project with adequate power supply so as to ensure full utilization of equipment.



* 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
3.1       The project would assist Henan Province in its development plan, which
aims to alleviate poverty and increase farmer incomes by increasing the
productivity of agriculture, animal husbandry and fishery and by developing
agroprocessing and agroindustry. The pro'ect would: (a) provide additional
irrigation water by completing construction of four Yellow River Diversion
Schemes and sinking wells; (b) alleviate soil salinity and waterlogging problems
by investing in drainage and flood protection schemes; (c) increase the
productivity of existing low-yield farms by crop intensification and
diversification; (d) develop wastelands for crops, alfalfa and orchards; (e)
expand livestock production through effective use of crop residues; (f) develop
low-lying areas for fish production; (g) invest in agroprocessing and
agroindustry; (h) improve the province's ability to manage water resources
effectively; and (i) strengthen research, extension and environmental protection
programs.
A. Project Description
3.2    The proposed project would consist of five components:
(a)   Irritation and Drainage.  The project would provide additional water for
crop production by improving and expanding irrigation facilities in four Yellow
River Diversion Schemes (YRDS), improving and constructing drainage and flood
control works, and sinking wells.
(b)   Agriculture.  The project would also provide farm inputs, support seed
production and processing activities, diversify crop production, construct
greenhouses, and finance development of wastelands for fruit production.
(c)    iestoc. The project would support the planting of alfalfa on wasteland
to provide feed for cattle and small ruminants, promote the raising of small
ruminants to make use of available farm by-products, introduce superior breeding
stock and improved feed, finance broiler meat processing and freezing facilities
to improve packaging and marketing of higher value cuts, and strengthen animal
disease control and veterinary services through provision of medicines, modern
equipment and training.
(d)   Aauaculture.  The project would invest in the development of low-lying
wasteland for integrated fish farms. It would construct fish ponds and
associated water supply, water discharge and electrical facilities; construct
and equip hatcheries and feed mills; and support aquaculture research and
training programs.
(e)   Agronrocessing and Agroindustry.  The project would finance the
construction or expansion of various facilities for agroprocessing and
agroindustry, which utilize agricultural outputs or by-products. These include
mills to produce paper from wheat straw and dogbane, plants to produce fructose
and plant growth hormone from corn, and cold stores for vegetables, fruits and
meat.



- 18
3.3       The proposed project would also strengthen overall project management,
research and extension, and enviroramental protection programs by providing
equipment, technical assistance, and training.
B. Detailed Features
Irrigation and Drainage Component
3.4. An inadequate and unreliable water supply is the primary constraint
limiting the expansion of the irrigated area and the intensification of
agricultural production within the project area. The project would Improve and
expand existing diversion schemes, sink and rehabilitate shallow wells, improve
drainage and construct flood control works. These would bring 282,000 ha of
rainfed, partial irrigated, waterlogged areas to fully irrigated areas.
3.5       Yellow River Diversion Sghemes (YRS). The project would improve *nd
expand irrigation and drainage infrastructure for an area of about 146,500 ha
within four existing schemes (Zhoukou, Xiangfuzhu, Shitouzhuang and Qucun)
through (a) construction of five new desilting basins and improvement of five
existing ones; (b) enlargement and/or extension of main canals, branch canals,
laterals and sub-laterals totalling 7,200 km; (c) lining of about 1,160 E of
main canals; (d) improvement and construction of 6,300 km of drainage canals;
(e) construction of 984 canal control structures, 1,640 bridges and culverts and
about 45,600 on-farm irrigation structures; (f) sinking and equipping about
4,900 shallow wells; (g) provision of 4,300 pump sets for low-lift pumping from
canals and drains; and (h) provision of four pumping stations to pump water into
main and branch canals. The four YRDS would be redesigned to the extent
possible to facilitate conjunctive use of surface and groundwater.1
3.6       Groundwater D_veloomont Scheme.   Outside the YRDS, well irrigation
would cover the whole or part ot nine counties in Kaifeng, Xinxiang and Jiazuo
municipalities. The scheme would construct 8,932 now wells and rehabiLitate
3,617 existing ones (6% of the 65,000 wells in the project area). The new wells
would be constructed over a period of five years in areas where well density is
still relatively low. The proposed development would increase the groundwater
irrigated area from about 181,000 ha to about 265,000 ha. Incremental
extraction of groundwater is estimated at 330 million m3 per year. Farmers will
contribute 30-508 of well construction costs and borrow the balance. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that county BOFs would establish and maintain
groundwater development revolving funds for new wells and water-saving pipes at
ABC or other commercial banks.
3.7       New and rehabilitated shallow wells using water-saving pipes would
have a design command area of 6.7 ha (100 mu). They would have a design
discharge of 40-60 m3/hour, and well depth would range from 35m to 60m.
Depending on the pumping head, submersible pump sets would be installed in about
67% of all new and or rehabilitated wells, while 33% would be centrifugal pimps.
Of these 3* would be diesel-powered and 97% would be electrically driven.
1    Conjunctive use of surface and groundwater is the joint management of
the two resources so that the total yield over a period of years exceeds
the sum of the yields of the two resources managed separately.



* 19 -
3.8       Water-saving pipes are incorporated in the design of the well
irrigation system and would be financed from the groundwater development
revolving fund. Implementation would typically be delayed to years 4 and 5
because of farmer's credit constraints. Sinking the well would be likely to
initially exhaust their initial credit (or their willingness to be indebted).
After repaying their initial loans for %41ls (typically in years 3 or 4), they
might consider new loans for pipes. The incentive to install the water-saving
pipes would be that they would extend the well's command area from 3-4 ha with
open channel irrigation to 6.7 ha with the pipes.
3.9       Yu-Xia-Ygna Drainage and Well IrriRation Schemg.  This scheme, which
would cover 3 counties in Shangqui prefecture, would improve the drainage on
about 40,200 ha, eliminating waterlogging in about 21,000 ha, and would develop
well irrigation on 19,680 ha. It would involve the ;mprovement of 160 km of
main drain and branch drains, construction of about 800 km of lateral and sub-
lateral drains and construction of some 1,350 bridges and culverts. Sub-surface
drainage pipes would also be provided. Design criteria would be the same as in
the NCPAP, e.g., drains would be designed for 1 in 5 years return period for
flood flow. Water table level would be lowered to 0.3-0.5 m below ground level
by 2-3 days after rainfall. For well irrigation the scheme would construct
1,280 new shallow wells and rehabilitate 1,672 existing ones. Wells would
average 40 m in depth, have a discharge of 40 m3/hr and serve 6.7 ha.
3.10      Donfshahe River RegulAtion Scheme.  The initial 14.9 km of the
Dongshahe River is regulated under the NCPAP. Another 91.4 km would be
controlled and regulated under this project. The works would dred e the river
according to a 1 in 3 years return period flood with 4.5 million m of excavated
soil to raise the levees to take 1 in 10 years flnod, construct 74 new and
rehabilitated bridges and two control gates. These works would elim'.nate
waterlogging in 4,000 ha of low-lying lands, and would improve irrigation
conditions in 7,500 ha.
3.11      Oucun Pilot Recharse and Irrigation Sbheme.  Due to the excessive
exploitation of groundwater in the Puyang and Qingfeng counties in rocent years,
groundwater levels have dropped rapidly, in some areas to 20m or more below
ground level, resulting in Licreased lifting costs and difficulty in obtaining
adequate water discharge. The Qucun pilot scheme would divert Yellow River
water during the off-season to overdraft areas to recharge the aquifer. The
Qucun main canal would be lined and extended to convey water to Puyang, where a
network of branch canals, laterals and sub-laterals would be constructed along
with control structures to spread water in the pilot area. Groundwater would be
used conjunctively with Yellow River water and local surface water. Old wells
would be rehabilitated and new wells would be sunk in order to optimize crop
yields and spacing of existing wells. The area covered under this scheme would
be about 6,700 ha and would be used as a model for possible further expansion
after the project. A monitoring system would be established for the pilot area
to assess the adequacy of the recharge and provide data for planning of future
schemes.
3.12      Water Resources PlannAig.  The project includes funding for a program
to strengthen the planning, monitoring, operating and managing of the surface
and groundwater resources by the provincial Water Conservancy Bureau (WCB). The
project would provide equipment to collect, assimilate, monitor and evaluato



- 20 -
groundwater availability, determine areas of overexploitation, measure
groundwater level response to rainfall and select potential areas for new wells.
A range of personnel - from local township staff to the senior engineers ot the
provincial WCB - would receive local, in-service and overseas study tours.
Technical assistance would be provided to assist the WCB in preparing a water
resource management plan. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a water
management plan would be submitted to IDA for review by December 31, 1992, and
that the number of new and rehabilitated wells would be limited to those
financed under the project until IDA has reviewed the water resource management
plan and it is agreed that the assessment of groundwater potential would support
the establishment of additional new wells.
3.13   Water Re jurces Research.  The project would support applied research
within the WCP on the following topics of relevance to the project: (a) optimal
irrigation scheduling and water application rates; (b) conjunctive uso of
surface and groundwater; (c) minimization of energy requirements for pumped
irrigation; (d) water-saving techniques; (e) water management for waterlogging
and salinity/alkalinity control; and (f) aquifer recharge techniques.
Agriculture Comwonent.
3.14      The agriculture component is composed of sub-components as follows:
3.15      Seeds    The project would finance the construction of 20 seed
processing centers to produce, process and market good quality wheat, rice, corn
and soybean seed to meet existing and additional demand in the prcject area.
Each center would have an enclosed area of 0.33 ha with an office, processing
area, seed store, sales room, seed testing laboratory and canteen totalling 930
m2 and a drying floor of 1000 m2. The seed processing line would consist of a
receiving pit, an elevator, cleaners, graders, a grading unit, a weighing and
packing unit, two dust extracting units, a transformer, switch board and a 50 kW
stand-by generator. The design capacity would be 1.5 t/hr. Each center would
process about 800 tins of wheat, 130 tons of hybrid rice, 400 tons of hybrid
corn and 120 tons of soybean seed for, a total of 1,450 tons of seed per year.
Each centre would also be supplied with basic furniture and office equipment,
seed testing equipment, a pick-up truck and Y40,000 in working capital.
Provision would be made to train 120 county seed center staff (CSC) in seed
production, field inspection, processing, testing, storage and distribution.
The project would finance on-the-job management training for CSC managers and
the key staff of the three cotton ginneries at well run seed companies and
ginneries in Hebei and/or Shandong to improve their managerial effectiveness.
3.16      Fertilizer and Pesticides.  The project would finance the procurement
of fertilizers and pesticLdes. Twenty thousand tons of fertilizer would be
purchased, mostly diarmonium phosphate (DAP). In year 1, a small quantity of
triple superphosphate (TSP) would be purchased initially to evaluate its
acceptability to farmers and crop response. Based on the first year's
experience, additional quantities would be purchased later. Major crops in low
yield areas would receive priority for the allocation of fertilizer purchased
under the project. About 480 tons of pesticides would be provided to control
powdery mildew, insects and pests on wheat, cotton, vegetables and fruit trees.
Imported inputs would be distributed in a timely manner by the Supply and
Marketing Corporation (SMC) at provincial, prefecture, municipal, county,



- 21 -
township and village levels at prices that would cover the cost of procurement,
transportation and distribution. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
BOFs would establish and maintain revolving funds with proceeds from the sale of
inputs provided by the project at ABC or other commercial banks.
3.17      Tunnel Greenhouses.  The project would finance the establishment of
1,125 tunnel greenhouses in four counties and one city. The greenhouses would
be 220 m2 in size. The project would finance the purchase of bricks, cement
columns, steel frames, plastic sheets, straw mattresses and inputs for the first
crop. Farmers are expected to cultivate high quality vegetables twice a year.
They would receive training by BOA in the construction and maintenance of
greenhouses and crop production techniques.
3.18      Windbreak. Wicker and Orchard Development.  This subcomponent supports
the planting of trees for windbreaks, wicker development, and orchard
rehabilitation and development (Annex 1, Table 4.1). The project would finance
the planting of poplar and paulownia for windbreaks to protect 5,600 ha of
village land in the Yellow River Plain. The project would provide seedlings and
other inputs for establishment of windbreaks and farmers would contribute labor.
The project would also assist the counties of Kaifeng, Lankou and Qinxian in
their wicker development programs, which would total 1,500 ha. Wicker bushes to
produce materials for basket making are typically planted on the borders of
farmers' fields. The project would finance nurseries for improved wicker
planting material and would provide farmers with training in planting,
management and basket making. A special program to train 5,600 village women
and 2,400 village men in wicker production and quality basket making would be
carried out.
3.19      The project would support the rehabilitation of 2,000 ha of low-
yielding Chinese dates in Puyang municipality and the establishment of 7,200 ha
of fruit orchards on low-yielding and waste land in 14 counties (3,600 ha of
apples, 1,200 ha of plums, 800 ha of pomegranates, 800 ha of apricots and 800 ha
of grapes). It would finance loans to farmers for wells, pump sheds, power
connections, electrical installations, pumps, motors, tools, seedlings,
fertilizer and agrochemicals. In total the project would involve approximately
35,000 low income households. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
county BOFs would establish and maintain revolving funds to finance orchard
development at ABC or other commercial banks.
3.20      Agricultural Extension.   The project would finance some laboratory
and audiovisual equipment for each of the 20 county agrotechnical venters to
upgrade their capacity for water, soil and plant analysis, adaptive research,
extension, and technician and farmer training. The project would upgrade
township extension station facilities by financing the construction of a
training room and additional staff accommodation, basic furniture, office and
extension equipment and a mobile extension van for each station. Each extension
worker would be provided with a simple field kit. The project would also
support demonstration of the integrated pest management (IPM) approach developed
at HAAS and the National Wheat, Corn and Cotton Center at Anyang. The project
would recruit and train approximately 8,500 female village farmer technicians to
serve the special needs of women farmers.



- 22 -
3.21      Research.  The project would finance eight research programs and
technical workshops to strengthen linkages between the research and extension
services. The research topics financed under the project would be: (a)
effective methods to increase agricultural income in low income areas; (b)
development of improved farming systems and technology to increase and sustain
soil fertility, production and income; (c) on-farm trials to determine the
economic rate of organic manure and fertilizer applications in the wheat-corn
rotation on major soil types; (d) the effect of variety, fertilizer application
and grading techniques on disease resistance and yield of watermelon; (e)
evaluation and demonstration of new high-yielding hybrid corn varieties and
cultivation techniques; (f) evaluation and demonstration of improved soybean and
peanut varieties and cultural techniques; (g) evaluation of improved technology
for high yield fruit production including propagation techniques, foliar
analysis, fertilizer application and integrated pest and disease management and
(h) IPM for cotton, wheat, rice and soybean including upgrading the monitoring
and forcasting system and improve the data base. Regular technical workshops
would be held twice a year at the prefecture/municipality level to enable HAAS
and university research workers to transfer new technology to county subject
matter specialists (SMS) and for the SMSs to raise field problems with
researchers. A majority of research projects that will be conducted on behalf
of the PMO by the HAAS research institutes and the Agricultural university make
provision for the participation of County Agrotechnology Centers, training of
County staff and farmers, and demonstration and extension of proven technology
(Annex 1, Table 5.1).
3.22       rA-inla.  The project would finance an extensive training program for
county BOA and BF staff and for farmers participating in the project. Other
project, county and township staff would also be given technical and management
training to upgrade skills appropriate to the needs of the project. Provincial,
county and township crop protection staff would be given training in IPM with
emphasis on the new technology developed by the HAAS, National Wheat, Corn and
Cotton Center and HAU. Farmers participating in the tunnel greenhouse program
would receive intensive training on construction and production techniques. The
project would finance the training of village and farm group leaders on the
project's objectives and programs and their role in the system.
3.23      County project staff of the BF would receive intensive training in
project management and appropriate technical subjects (e.g., orchard planning
and design). Farmer technicians and farmers participating ln tree or orchard
development would receive appropriate training, emphasizing pest and disease
identification and control. Funds would be provided for agriculture .and
forestry technical personnel to undertake short domestic and oversea study
tours. Detailed training programs can be seen in Annex 1, Table 5.2.
LLvestogk Component.
3.24      The primary objective of the livestock component would be to raise
farm incomes by increasing and diversifying livestock production in 17 counties
in the project area (Annex 1, Table 4.2). These would be done through: (a)
improving feed quality; (b) introducing commercial poultry and pig production at
the household level; (c) upgrading the quality of veterinary and animal
husbandry extension services; and (d) supporting research and training programs.



- 23 -
3.25      Integrated Alfalfa Production for Livestock Households.  The project
would improve and increase the feed base by developing 10,500 ha of poor, sandy
and waste lands in several locations of the old flood plain of the Yellow River
for alfalfa (and a small amount of green corn) production. The project would
support 3,000 cattle and 1,500 sheep households to develop integrated alfalfa
and crop production, mostly for cattle and sheep feed. Each household's one
hectare of land would be divided into five equal sections, which would follow a
staggered rotation pattern of four years alfalfa cycle and one year forage crops
such as winter wheat, corn or peanuts. (Peanuts would provide both peanut hay
for forage and peanuts as a cash crop.) Cattle would be fed ammoniated wheat
straw, alfalfa, other crop by-products and supplementary concentrate. The
project would finance land development, simple animal sheds, amonification
ponds, silos and storage sheds; breeding stock and inputs; and a forage grinder
for every 20 sheep households.
3.26      Alfalfa Production Households.  A total of 1,200 households, each
allocated 5 ha of land along the northern border of the Yellow River, would
engage in production of alfalfa as a cash crop and to rehabilitate the soil.
Production would be phased in with three groups of 400 during years 1-3 of
project implementation and would produce alfalfa hay and meal and forage crops.
The project would finance seed, fertilizer and a storage shed -for each
household; a 20 hp tractor, an alfalfa cutter, a hay baler and a fodder grinder
for each ten households; and a 7.5 hp diesel engine for backup power for each 20
households. The five hectare plot would be divided into three sections, and
alfalfa would be rotated with forage crops among the sections similarly to the
plots of the cattle and sheep households.
3.27      Goat Production.     Hide-goat production is planned for 4,000
households in project areas where no sheep or cattle production is planned (five
counties in three municipalities). Forage would be farm by-products and grazing
on the harvested peanut or wheat fields. Pregnant does and kids would be fed
concentrate consisting of corn, cotton seed cake, alfalfa meal and minerals.
The project would focus on improving the carcass weight of the local Huai goat,
which has excellent hide quality but low meat productivity, by sire selection
and the diffusion of superior genetic pools using artificial insemination (Al).
A number of advanced households would produce breeding does and sires.
Extension and veterinary services would promote goat health and nutrition.
Provision under the project would be for goat sheds, Al equipment, and breeding
does. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that county BOFs would establish
and maintain livestock development revolving funds for lending to cattle, sheep
and goat farmers at ABC or other commercial banks.
3.28      Pig Production.  The project would assist six commercial pig farms and
300 households to produce lean pigs. Each commercial farm would have 700 sows
producing 9,918 weaned pigs per year, of which it would supply 50 households
with 60 wean pigs per year and retain the rest for its own production. The
commercial farms would guarantee a market for the household-produced lean pigs
meeting their standards. To ensure a smooth production flow, each farm would be
provided with separate buildings for breeding, gestation, farrowing, weaning and
fattening on a fenced-off tract with access to water and roads. Dormitories,
offices, a veterinary room, a disinfection entrance, production and manure-
disposal facilities, and fencing are included. A feedmill would also be
constructed in each farm to ensure feed sufficiency and quality for both farms



- 24 -
and households. The pig-producing households would depend on the commerical
farms for weaners and feed, technical advlce, marketing services and credit to
finance simple structures, troughs and working capital.
3.29      Broiler Production.  The project would help 2,100 households to
develop broiler production by financing a broiler house for each, along with
power and water supply rooms, equipment and working capital. The households
would be divided lnto seven groups of 300 each, and each group would have access
to a processing/cold storage plant. The project would construct seven modern
broiler processing plants with a capacity of 900,000 birds per year. To ensure
that feed quality is acceptable, the county feedmill manager would sit on the
board of the County Broiler Production Co. (CBPC), a township enterprise
established for the purpose of managing broiler production. The Henan Tangyin
Animal Husbandry Industries and Commercial Corp. (HTAHICC) already successfully
operates an integrated broiler production operation, which provides day-old
chicks, feed, other inputs, technical support and marketing services to farmers.
CBPC's operation would be similar to this.
3.30      Livestock Technical Suooort Services.  The project would strengthen a
number of livestock technical support services. Applied research projects to be
supported would be: (a) beef cattle improvement (selection, cross breeding and
registration), (b) feed and forage resource surveys, (c) the use of cottonseed
meal for pig and poultry feeding, and (d) sheep and goat improvement. The
research would be conducted primarily by the HAAS and HAU in collaboration with
county colleges of agriculture, extension agents and Henan BAH staff. The
project would also support training, veterinary services and technical
assistance. Training would be given to approximately 1,200 livestock
technicians and veterinarians who in turn would train 12,000 livestock
households. It would be carried out by HAU and would involve animal breeding,
Al services, nutrition, diagnosis of animal disease, farm management and agri-
business topics. Broiler households would recieve training from county Animal
Husbandry stations whose staffs would receive short term training from HAU.
Refresher courses would be given to veterinarians in nutrition, metabolic
diseases, immunology, post-mortem and pathology skills, specimen collection,
therapeutics and preventive medicine (Annex l, Table 5.3). In addition to
research and training, the project would support veterinary services by
financing initial village stocks of drugs and vaccines, which would be sold to
farmers for a slight mark-up, with the proceeds placed in the livestock
development revolving funds. An international technical specialist would be
provided by the project for one month to review the technical design of the
commercial and household pig and broiler operations and to evaluate the waste
disposal plans of commercial farms. Finally, the project would provide for
domestic training for managers and technical staff and international study tours
for livestock technical personnel.
Aguaculture Com2onent.
3.31      This component would convert swampy wasteland in 10 counties of
Jiaozuo, Xinxiang and Puyang municipalities and Shangqiu Prefecture into fish
ponds to produce Chinese carp in a polyculture system composed of grass carp,
silver carp, bighead and common carp. Grass carp would serve as the foundation
for the polyculture system. This flsh consumes a large quantity of grass and
the undigested portion of the grass ln its fecal waste fuels autotrophic and



- 25 -
heterotrophic production, serving as an additional source of nutrient for the
other fish ln the pond. Each pond is accompanied by an area of green fodder
equivalent to half the pond's area. The project would assist in the development
of 1014 ha of fish ponds - 887 ha production ponds and 127 ha nursery ponds.
The project would adopt 2 designs: (a) clusters of production and nursery ponds
in different areas contracted to separate groups of households, [one 0.67 ha (10
mu) production pond or two 0.33 ha (5 mu) nursery ponds per household] and (b) a
pairing of a 0.67 ha production and a 0.13 ha nursery pond for each household.
Most household operations would adopt the first design to allow minor economies
of scale in nursery production. Three fish farms in Yucheng would adopt the
second design to allow self sufficiency for the pond operator.
3.32      The project would support the development of the fish ponds by
financing earth works, 176 km of water supply and drainage canals and the lining
of 13,000 m3 of canals. The project would also provide 2,400 water-supply
control gates, 140 wells, 14 km of high-tension power lines, 63 km of low-
tension power lines, 8 transformers, 266 pumps and pumphouses, and working
capital. The project would also assist in constructing and equipping 4
feedmills and 4 hatcheries to provide reliable supplies of feed and fingerlings
to farmers.
3.33      Aguaculture Research and Traininu Programs.  A number of applied
research projects, carried out under the leadership of the Henan Provincial
Aquatic Product Research Institute (HPAPRI), would be financed by the project.
The following topics have been proposed: (a) determination of the best ratio of
nursery to production ponds at different stocking densities; (b) assessment of
the feasibility of shortening the breeding period; (c) investigation of the
prevention and treatment of grass carp disease; (d) model studies for common
carp, grass carp, silver carp and big head breeding; (e) experimentation with
production and utilization of different formulae for pellet feed; and (f)
investigation of integrated livestock and aquaculture production.
3.34      The project would support training of aquaculture technicians and
farmers at the ongoing courses conducted collaboratively by HPAPRI and the Henan
Provincial Aquatic Product Technological Extension Station. These institutions
offer several training sessions each year. The project would support the
training of 80 fish farm technicians and about 1,800 men and women farmers.
Funds would be provided to support study tours for technicians to visit
established aquaculture facilities within the country.
AgroDrocessing and Agroindustry Component.
3.35      The proposed project would support investment in agroprocessing and
agroindustry as a way to utilize the output of farmers assisted by the project
as raw materials. This activities would be located in the poorest areas of the
province and would create significant employment especially of women. The
plants would use modern, efficient technology and emphasize environmental
controls. The project would provide management training for plant managers.
The details of the plants are as follows:
3.36       Cold  Store.  Meat, fruit and vegetable cold stores would be
constructed in three counties, each with a capacity of 500 tons of produce. Two
would be divided into a 400 tons cool store for fruit and vegetables and a 100



- 26 *
tons cold store for meat. The third would be a 500 tons cold store for meat
only. The cold stores would benefit farmers in the three counties by ensuring
adequate markets at harvest time for produce and would help stabilize the market
for livestock products.
3.37      Wenxian Fructose Factory.  The project would finance the construction
and equipment of a processing plant in Wenxian county to produce 10,000 t/yr of
fructose from corn. The plant location would be in an area of intense corn
cultivation, which produced 94,000 tons of corn in 1989 and sold about 40,000
tons to other provinces. Output of the plant would reduce the province's net
imports of sugar and sweeteners from other provinces. The production of
fructose would increase the local demand for corn by about 16,000 tons per annum
and would provide value-added products and local revenue for this poor, rural
county (per capita income of Y295/yr).
3.38      Puvanf Plant Growth Hormone Factorv.  The project would finance a
factory to produce a plant growth hormone (gibberellin) from corn. The factory
would be built adjacent to an existing modern, well managed corn products
factory in Puyang but would be a separate enterprise. The 10 t/yr of
gibberellin produced by the new plant would increase productivity on 330,000 ha
of crop land in the project area and would benefit more than a million farmers.
3.39       The Dogbane Paper Project.  The project would support a set of
integrated crop production, processing and paper manufacturing activites chiefly
aimed at poverty alleviation for 72,500 farmers (each would cultivate 0.52 mu)
in Wuzhi County adjacent to the Yellow River, which has an average per capita
income of Y295. The pulping raw material would be dogbane, a Hibiscus shrub,
which would be grown on Yellow River flood banks. It is one of the few crops
that can be grown there, since it can withstand immersion during the rainy
season.  About 38,000 mu of dogbane would be cultivated mostly by female workers
and would be converted into 15,000 t/yr of unbleached kraft paper. A new 15,000
t/yr paper mill, with integrated pulp operations, would be constructed producing
a range of kraft papers for wrapping and linerboard from dogbane pulp.
3.40       Chanfvuan Paper Mill.  The project would support an 10,000t/yr
expansion of an existing 3,000 t/yr mill in Changyuan County to produce writing-
grade papers from straw and cotton pulp. Wheat grown in this county yields
about 300,000 t/yr of straw, which currently has very little value. The mill
would create demand for about 25,000 t/yr of straw at Y150-200/ton and would
provide factory employment in one of the poorest counties in Henan Province,
where five townships have a per capita income around Y200/year.
Institutional SupDort.
3.41        The project would strengthen the project management office, provide
technical assistance and support environmental protection programs as follows:
3.42      Proiect Management Office.  In addition to assisting research,
extension, and training programs in each component, the project would support
overall project management by providing training and technical assistance to the
PMOs at all levels, particularly to their monitoring and evaluation units. This
support would strengthen project management in cost accounting, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E), and reporting and evaluation systems. In addition, periodic



- 27 -
seminars would be held on agriculture, livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing to discuss M&E findings and resolve tachnical and management
problems. Funds would also be provided for short-term training and to invite
Chinese experts from appropriate tochnical and research institutions to advise
PMOs on project implementation. The training programs would be carried out in
accordance with schedules to be agreed at negotiations. Funds for the purchase
of equipment and furniture would also be provided.
3.43      Training & Technical Assistance.  Staff training has been included and
described in each component and is summarized in Annex 1, Tables 5.2-5.3. The
project would budget ten person-months in total for consultancy services: (a)
three person-months of experts to review plant layout and design and to assist
in equipment specification for the agroprocessing and agroindustry component,
(b) one person-month of livestock consultancy to review the technical design of
the commercial and household pig and broiler operations and to evaluate the
waste disposal plans of the commercial farms, (c) five person-months of
consultancy to assist in developing the water resources planning program and
operation and maintenance plans, and (d) one person-month of environmental
consultant.
3.44      Environmental Progrsms.  An environmental monitoring mechanism has
been set up for the project (Annex 4). The provincial PMO environmental unit
would be responsible for the managing and coordinating monitoring, data analysis
and reporting. Two existing laboratory centers would be equipped to carry out
project activities, one at the provincial BOA's agroenvironmental laboratory,
which would be responsible for analysing all soil and solid samples, gas
analysis and atmospheric tests, and another at the Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau (PEPB)'s laboratory, which would be reponsible for analysing
water and liquid samples. Both have to forward results and recommendations to
the PMO units. The project would also equip 20 county monitoring stations,
which would be responsible for collecting samples on a regularly scheduled
basis, carrying out simple sample analyses and sending the results and samples
to central laboratories. Institutional support would be provided in the form of
equipment, training and study tours, operating funds and technical assistance.
A forei6n consultant would be engaged to design and run some of the training
courses on specific subjects and also to introduce foreign experience on
environmental monitoring. Local consultants would be engaged on a regular basis
to carry out two surveys per year on the wetlands and historical sites (paras.
3.59-3.60). The PMO would begin environmental monitoring before project
implementation so as to establish baseline data for agroprocessing and
agroindustry and water quality.
C. Status of PreRaration
3.45      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Preliminary
designs have been prepared for all the components. For irrigation, the
preliminary designs for each of the YRDS were carried out by the Design
Institute of Henan UCB, and were based on sample gravity and pumping designs.
Designs have also been prepared for the well irrigation, drainage and
river-regulation schemes. Feasibility studies have been carried out for all
agroprocessing plants, and conceptual designs are generally at an advanced
stage. Detailed plant and construction drawings would be produced by architects
and plant designers as part of the project, and provision has been made for



- 28 *
these activities within individual plant investment costs. The design
institutes already involved in the conceptual designs and feasibility studies
would be responsible for writing the technical specifications for the tendering
agencies. Sites for the fishponds have been identified by the PMO and the
Provincial Bureau of Aquatic Products. Preliminary designs have been completed
for all fish and hatchery ponds except for pond drainage in Jiyuan County. The
preliminary designs for poultry and pig farms have also been completed.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.46      The project would be implemented over a five and a half year period
from 1991-1996 (Chart 2). The surface and well irrigation subcomponents would
be implemented over the five and a half year poriod, the river regulation schem
during years 1-3 and the Qucun pilot scheme during year 4-5. Construction and
commissioning of all processing plants would be completed during the first three
years of the project. Each plant has been individually scheduled to realistic
expectations, and production capacity would be phased in during the first two to
three years of operation. The proposed schedule is feasible and conservative,
considering that implementing agencies are already established, experienced, and
supplied with adequate human and institutional resources.. The schedules also
take into account the possible delays associated with procurement by ICB
procedures.
E. Cost Estimates
3.47      Total project cost is estimated at US$196.0 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$91.2 million, 47% of the total Project cost does not
include any significant tax element, since civil works and buildings are
essentially free of tax, and imported materials and equipment are exempt from
duties. Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from complete
preliminary designs (para 3.45) and from unit prices currently prevailing for
similar construction works and materials in the province and price lists of
local and overseas manufacturers for plants, machinery and equipment.
Engineering and management costs have been calculated at 5% of total costs for
works. Physical contingencies are 5% for civil works, 10% for irrigation works,
equipment and machinery and 5% for other categories, except labor and land
acquisition, for which they are zero. Price contigencies, for costs expressed
in US$, are based on an innual international price escalation rate of 3.6% for
all goods and services for 1991-96 and, for costs expressed in Yuan, on price
escalation rates of 10% for 1991, 8% for 1992 and 5% for 1993-96. Estimated
costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 2.



- 29 -
Table 3.1 Proisct Cost Summary
*               ~~~~%   ,
Yuan (Million) Total     US$ (Million)    Total
Component             ----------------------Base ------------------- FE Base
Local  Foreign Total CostsLocal ForeignTotal     Costs
..... ............____.___._................................................  _.______
Irrigation & Drainage  281.3 178.2  459.5  51  55.8  32.2 88.0  39  51
Agriculture            40.6  61.0  101.6  11  8.1  11.4  19.5 60  11
Livestock               60.6  44.3  104.9  11  12.0   8.1 20.1 42  11
Aquaculture             29.0  21.5   50.5   6  5.8   3.9  9.7 43    6
Agroindustry            71.9 108.0  179.9  20  14.3  20.1  34.4  60  20
Institutional Support    3.2   5.1    8.3   1  0.6   1.0  1.6 62    1
......... ......................  .. ... .......... ................. 
Base Costs            486.6 418.1  904.7 100  96.6  76.7 173.3 44  100
Physical Contingencies  28.9  32.0   60.9   7  5.5   6.1  11.6 53   7
Price Contingencies    104.9  88.2  193.1  21   2.7   8.4  11.1 76   6
.... ...... .. ... ... ......  -- - -- - - -- - -
Total Project Costs    620.4  538.3 1,158.7 128 104.8  91.2 196.0 47  113
F. Financing
3.48     Bank Group financing would be an IDA Credit of SDR 81.4 million
(US$110 million equivalent) and would cover 56 percent of total project costs.
The remaining 44 percent would be financed by Provincial, Prefecture/Municipal
and County Governments, and PCBC and beneficiaries. The contributions from each
source are as follows:
USS million
(a) IDA Credit                           110.0
(b) Provincial Government                 38.5
(c) Prefecture/Municipal Governments       9.6
(d) County Governments                    19.8
(e) People's Construction Bank of China,
enterprises and farmers               18 1
Total       19620
3.49     The governments at each level would be responsible to provide
counterpart funding to finance the project activities in their jurisdictions.
These funds would come from budgetary allocations according to each year's work
plans. To ensure that adequate counterpart funding would be provided in a
timely manner, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) Henan would
provide to IDA for the province and for each municipality/prefecture and county
in the project (i) a statement of proposed budgetary allocations for the project
by January 31 of each year and (ii) a detailed statement of approved budgetary
allocations by April 30 of each year, and (b) the PLGs would be responsible for
the mobilization of counterpart funding at each level.



* 30 -
G. Procuranmn
3.50      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Table 32: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Project element                  ICB       LCB     Other     N/A     Total
Land acquisition                 -         -                5.5       5.5
(0.0)    (0.0)
Works                            -        49.6    28.7               78.3
(22.0)  (12.8)            (34.8)
Machinery & equipment          25.0       10.2     3.5      -        38.7
(23.1)      (7.7)   (2.6)            (33.4)
Trucks & Utility                2.4        -       -        -        2.4
Vehicles                    (2.1)                                (2.1)
Materials                      19.9       13.2    12.2      -       45.3
(18.4)      (9.9)   (9.2)            (37.5)
Training                         -         -       2.0      -        2.0
(2.0)             (2.0)
Technical Assistance             -         -       0.2      -        0.2
(0.2)     -       (0.2)
Design, engineering              -         -       -        9.0      9.0
& management                                             (0.0)    (0.0)
Labor                                      -       -        6.5      6.5
(0.0)    (0.0)
Working Capital                 -          -                8.1      8.1
(0.0)    (0.0)
TotglL 47I 371    19620
(43.6)      (39.6)  (26.8)    (0.0)  (110.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA Credit.
3.51        Works. All the works in the project are too small for international
competitive bidding (ICB). They would include many small land development and
earthworks for irrigation canals and fish ponds, and would be scattered over a
wide area and scheduled over the life of the project. None could be packaged
into contracts exceeding US$0.5 million and would, therefore, not be of interest
to foreign contractors. Approximately 63 percent of the work (US$49.6 million)
would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA. The remaining works (US$28.7 million), consisting of many
small canals, drains, land development works and minor site preparations, would
normally be done by off-season labor contributions at the village and county
levels. The works would be too small (costing less than US$200,000 equivalent
per contract) and widely scattered throughout the project to be of interest to
contractors. They would therefore be undertaken through force account managed
by village and county engineers in coordination with provincial bureau staff.



- 31 -
3.52        Goods   Proj6ct goods consisting of machinery, equipment, vehicles
and materials are estimated at US$86.4 million. International competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for agroindustry equipment, vehicles,
large pumps and motors, fertilizers, pesticides and some of the construction
materials, for a total of US$47.3 million or 55 percent of all goods. Domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference on ICB equal to 15 percent
of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual custom duties and import
taxes, whichever is less. Passenger vehicles estimated at US$0.2 million would
be provided by Henan. The small pumps, motors, irrigation equipment, electrical
equipment, pipes, farm and livestock tools, seed and feed processing equipment,
materials and suapplies, costing about US$39.1 million (45 percent of all goods),
would be dispersed in location, spread over the project period and subject to
continuing after-sale service requirements to the oxtent that none of them could
be grouped in packages of more than US$200,000 and would therefore be unlikely
to be of interest to foreign suppliers without a significant local presence.
They would therefore normally be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding (LCB). Because of small packages (due to varied
requirements and high transport costs), miscellaneous small equipment, office
equipment, supplies and furnishings costing less than US$50,000 per package, and
not exceeding US$4 million in aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparisons of price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers according to local shopping procedures described in the Bank
guidelines. Some goods such as saplings, seedlings and breeding stock, costing
about US$8 million, would in practice be available from only a few sources,
often because of high transport costs. They may therefore be procured directly.
Specialized equipment for research and water monitoring, office equipment and
construction materials for greenhouses up to a value of US$1.0 million would be
procured under contracts awarded through local shopping on the basis of
comparison of quotations invited from a list of at least threa qualified
suppliers. A detailed listing of procurement arrangements for goods can be found
in Annex 2, Table 5.
3.53        Qthel.  Training and technical assistance would cost a total of
US$2.2 million and would be fully covered by IDA funding. The employment of
international consultants would be in accordance with IDA guidelines for the Use
of Consultants. Land acquisition, administration, engineering, design,
management, labor and working capital, which amount to US$29.1 million, would be
locally funded.
3.54        IDA Reia.  All procurement packages for works and goods in excess
of US$200,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review. That would cover about 10
percent of the works and about 40 percent of the goods by value, and would
consist of approximately 12 contracts. Other contracts would be subject to ex-
post review by IDA supervision missions. In addition, considering the large
number of contracts to be procured under LCB procedures, the PMO would use
standard documents approved by IDA for all these contracts. All contracts for
consultant services would subject to IDA's prior review and approval.  The
procurement schedule (Chart 3) gives detailed projections on how and when the 11
largest packages, which constitute 55 percent of the goods, would be put to bid.
The China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CMIEC) would be the
procurement agent. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the PHO would
furnish to IDA for its review and approval a plan for domestic and overseas
training and study tours for implementation during the next calendar year by
December 31 of each year during project implementation.



- 32 -
H.  Disbursements
3.55        Disbursements for construction and agroin4ustry equipment,
machinery, vehicles, and all imported items under ICB procurement would be for
100 percent of the foreign exchange cost, 100 percent of the ox-factory price
for locally manufactured items, or for 75 percent of local expenditures for
other items procured locally. Disbursement against civil works would be 45
percent of total expenditures excluding costs of construction materials (cement,
steel and timber). Disbursements for overseas training, study tours, consulting
services would be for 100 percent of total expenditures.
3.56        Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs)
in the cases of overseas training, study tours and contracts for goods and
services each costing less than US$200,000, and work on force account. SOEs for
civil works, irrigation and drainage, farm works, and earthworks carried out by
force account would be supported by progress reports showing physical quantities
and unit prices, the latter updated annually and approved by IDA. In order to
provide for efficient disbursements, the BOF would open a Special Account in a
bank acceptable to IDA and with a ceiling of US$ 6.1 million. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the
Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever
comes first. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 9.0 million would be made
against expenditures made between November 1, 1990 a-ad the date of signing of
the Development Credit Agreement.
3.57        It is estimated that the project would be completed by December 31,
1996 and that the closing date would be December 31, 1997. Disbursement experience
in China has been favorable and better than the Bank Group average. The project
disbursement profile is essentially in line with that for investment loans in
China. Estimated schedules of disbursements are given in Annax 2, Table 6.
'. Accounts and Audits
3.58        Records of expenditure on civil works, equipment and materials would
be maintained by the county PMOs. These records would be forwarded to the
prefectural/municipal PMOs for submission to the provincial PMO for review.  The
provincial PMO would be responsible for submitting the project consolidated
accounts and reports to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
provincial PMO would maintain consolidated accounts for all components for annual
auditing by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts
together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year. The audited accounts would include details of
withdrawals from the credit account made on the basis of SOEs and the auditors'
opinions as to whether such withdrawals were for expenditures eligible for
reimbursement by IDA. The State Audit Administration would carry out the audit-
ing of the project.
J. Environmental Imoact
3.59        In general terms, project components would have a positive effect on
the environment. The irrigation and drainage component would reduce ill effects
of drought, flooding, waterlogging and salinity on about 282,000 ha. The



- 33 -
conjunctive use of ground and surface water would lower water tables and prevent
salinization and alkalinity problems from developing. The diversion of Yellow
River water for irrigation would improve water supply in canals, drains and
groundwater aquifers and dilute effluent discharged into open drainage systems.
Silt deposition in irrigated fields would enhance soil fertility. The relatively
small reduction in Yellow River flow would be compensated for by on-going
upstream programs to improve the regulation of seasonal flow. The development of
10,000 ha of wasteland for fruit and alfalfa production would control soil
erosion and improve water retention and soil fertility. The increased production
of liv3stock manure would improve soil fertility and reduce the use of chAmical
fertilizer. Moreover, a resoutce evaluation carried out during appraisal
concluded that dogbane planted on the mudflats of the Yellow River would have a
positive impact on the riverine environment, and fishponds would have no
negative impacts on swampy areas.
3.60        A possible adverse ecological impact of the project concerns the
large 30 km2 wetland in Yanjin county, which serves as a sanctuary for waterfowl
and migratory birds. The government lists this area as a natural reserve and
legislation is in place to protect it. The project could indirectly affect this
area if the wells sunk in nearby project areas lower groundwater levels in the
wetland, dry out ponds and thereby destroy the environment for birds. Taking
this into consideration, the PM0 agreed that investment in well development in
Yanjin County would be delayed until the third year of project implementation,
following a favorable assessment of the impact of such development on the
wetlands. This study would be organized by a hydrologist from WCB in cooperation
with EPB and the PM0 and would be submitted to IDA for review. If the study
should indicate a negative environmental impact, well development would not be
allowed to take place in the areas that would be affected.
3.61        Since part of the project area would be in Kaifeng, an ancient Song
dynasty capital, a survey and analysis were carried out to investigate possible
adverse effects of the project on the historical sites. The resources survey
lists 10 ancient sites (S ancient towns, an ancient village and a group of
ancient tombs) at risk. The PEPB would monitor these sites to make sure that
project activities would not adversely affect them. The PM0 is obligated to
follow China's Land Management Law, which requires that (a) any land development
must be agreed with affected local governments, (b) economic loss caused by the
de.-eolpment must be compensated for, and (c) land of like quality must be
provided as compensation (alternative employment would given) for land taken for
development. Project cost estimates therefore include the costs of acquiring
land and compensating farmers.
3.62        Potential chemical pollution of the environment by project activities
would be effectively controlled. Effluent control and treatment measures have
been included in the design of all agroprocessing and agroindustrial plants to
meet nationally acceptable emission and effluent standards, and the PEPB would be
required to approve the final arrangements for waste disposal before project
implementation. Moreover, a monitoring system, which has already been set up,
would monitor agroprocessing and agroindustrial effluent and water quality under
the project. Potential damage from plant protection chemicals would also be
effectively controlled by various measures. First, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that all agrochemicals financed under the project would be approved
by IDA and used in accordance with guidelines acceptable to IDA. Second, most of



- 34 -
the plant protection chemicals to be procured under the project are degradable
and, in the quantities to be used, would not have significant negative effects on
the environment. Spraying personnel would be trained in safety measures. Third,
the IPM approach would be experimented with in part of the project area and
gradually extended to other project areas. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that; (a) the Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (PEPB)
would approve the final designs of the treatment facilities for each
agroprocessing and agroindustrial enterprise prior to construction and (b) these
enterprises would implement and maintain effluent monitoring and treatment
systems according to the final designs approved by the PEPB. The project would
finance monitoring, training and technical assistance for environmental
activities as described in para 3.44.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Ortanization
4.1       The Government of Henan would be responsible for overall project
implementation. Senior officials from concerned provincial agencies will serve
in the Provincial Project Leading Group (PPLG) and which would set policy for the
project and guide the Provincial Project Manangement Office (PPMO) the project
executing body, in policy matters. Similar PLGs and PMOs, would be establishad
at municipal/prefecture and county levels to carry out project policies and
activities, respectively, at these levels. Following project completion, all
project functions and responsibilities would revert to responsible line agencies.
The organization for project implementation is shown in Chart 1.
4.2       Project Leading Grouns (PLGs).  The PLGs wouid be chaired by the Vice
Governor at the provincial level, the Prefecture Chief or Mayor at the
prefecture/municipality level and county chiefs at the county level*. The PLGs at
all levels would include representatives from the Bureaus of Agriculture, Water
Conservancy, Forestry, Animal Husbandry, Aquatic Products, Environment, Light
Industry, and Planning and Finance. PCBC, ABC and other agencies involved in the
project would also be represented. The PLWs would be reponsible for formulating
policy guidelines, approving project plans, organizing counterpart funding and
facilitating inter-agency coordination. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Province would maintain the PLGs with composition and reponsibilities
acceptable to IDA.
4.3       Proiect Management Offices (PMOs).  The Provincial PMO would be staffed
with trained and qualified technical, administrative, financial and management
officers and headed by a Director. Most appointments have already been made,
including the Director, a former Director of the provincial Bureau of
Agriculture. The PPMO would: (i) draw up annual, detailed work programs and
budgets for the project; (ii) review and approve lower level PMO work plans;
(iii) monitor physical and financial progress of the project; (iv) coordinate and
supervise project implementation; (v) review and approve technical specifications
for agroprocessing and agroindustry, water conservancy, development of
agricultural, livestock and aquatic products; (vi) liaise with central and
provincial agencies regarding project implementation (e.g., procurement,
planning, finance, marketing, etc.); (vii) supervise procurement matters carried
out by CMIEC; (viii) prepare detailed project accounts, audits and progress
reports; and (ix) submit withdrawal applications to IDA. At lower levels the the



- 35 -
PMOs would assist agencies or entities involved in implementing project
components and would liaise between the project and various technical and
financial organizations that have support functions for the project. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Province would maintain the PMOs with
function and responsibilities acceptable to IDA and staffed by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
4.4       Five Engineering Headquarters (EHs) have been established for each of
the four YRDS and the Dongsha River Regulation Scheme to direct the technical
aspects of the irrigation earth works and civil works including construction
supervision and qulity control. EH technical staff would come from the WCBs at
various levels. After the completion of construction, these units would become
WCB administrative units and would be responsible for operation and maintenance
(O&M) and for collecting water charges within their schemes.
4.5       Scientific and Technical Committees (STCs).  Scientific and Technical
Committees (STCs) would be established to make recommendations on technical
aspects to PLGs and PMOs. According to present plans, they would be established
only at the provincial level but could be established at other levels as needed.
STCs would be involved in planning and designing technical aspects of the
project, including international training programs and technical assistance.
Periodic meetings between STCs and PMO staff would be undertaken to review
current technical plans and formulate future ones. The STCs would be composed of
senior technical staff of provincial bureaus and senior scientists from
cooperating research institutes.
B. Management of Production Activlties
4.6       Crops and Livestock.  The Bureaus of Agriculture (BOA), Animal
Husbandry (BAH) and Forestry (BF) at the provincial, prefectural/municipal and
county levels would carry out project production activities under the supervision
of the PMOs. The BOAs would coordinate with the WCBs and EHs on agriculture and
irrigation and drainage related activities. Seed companies, organized as
autonomous units under the county agriculture bureaus, would implement and manage
the seed activities in their counties; fruit tree seedlings would be provided by
local forestry bureaus. Fertilizers and pesticides would be available for
purchase primarily through the Supply and Marketing Corporation (SMC) and its
branches at the prefecture and county levels. SMC would manage supply of inputs
at the farm level in accordance with allocation plans drawn up by the agriculture
bureaus and the PMOs. With guidance from HAAS and the HAU, the BOAs and BAHs
would provide technical extension and training to project area farmers.
4.7       Orchards.  The BF would implement the tree crop subcomponent under the
supervision of the PMO.  County PMOs and BOFs and township and village
Governments would be reponsible for the final selection of land and participants.
Village heads and committees would be responsible for allocating village
wasteland and administering the village orchard program. Each group of
specilized fruit households would select a leader to manage well and water
distribution. These leaders would receive training in well operation and
maintenace from the local BWR water managment station. Each household would pay
Y50 at harvest time to establish a group fund to pay for major repairs and pump
and motor replacements. Each household would sign a lease contract, which would
specify agreed production and technical conditions, and also a loan contract,
which would specify repayment requirements.



- 36 -
4.8       A.uacultur. The implementation and supervision of aquaculture
activities would be under the general guidance of the provincial Aquatic Products
Bureau with most of the units being constructed by the county Aquatic Products
Companies (APCs). APCs would also be responsible for commercial operations,
including the operation of hatcheries and feedmills. The county companies would
make contracts with individuals or groups entrusting them with responsibility for
one or several fish ponds. The company farm managers would make contractual
agreements with individuals or groups for the supply of growing stock, feed and
other essential services.
4.9       Agronrocessing and Agoindustrv.  Agroprocessing and agroindustrial
plants would be owned by the counties and would be established by county economic
commissions (under the general supervision of the Provincial Planning Commission)
as autonomous commercial companies with Boards of Directors, charters and
business licenses. The management responsibility system, which provides for
independent managers, would be adopted by all enterprises under the project.
Enterprise operating guidelines are being drawn up; they would apply all new
enterprises and as much as possible to existing ones. Enterprises would receive
technical guidance from provincial and county technical bureaus, in particular,
the Department of Trade and Commerce, the Environmental Protection Bureaus, the
Department of Light Industry and the Supply and Marketing Corporations.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) draft operational guidelines
for the agroprocessing and agroindustrial enterprises would be provided to IDA
for review before finalization, (b) the enterprises would be managed by competent
staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and (c) they would be
financially sound, maintaining at all times a debt-equity ratio (determined in a
manner acceptable to IDA) no greater than 5:1.
C. Financial Management
4.10      FloL of Funds.  Proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the Henan Provincial Government (HPG) at an interest
rate of 5.5%, with repayment over 15 years, including a five-year grace period.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by HPG. The Provincial Bureau of
Finance (PBOF), representing HPG, would channel these funds to prefectural/
municipal and county governments. The county BOFs would pass on part of their
project funds to PMOs for public works and research, training and extension
activities and onlend another part through the banking channels to enterprises
and farmers for commercial investment. People's Construction Bank of China
(PCBC) would be used as the banking channel for county enterprises And ABC or
other commercial banks would be the banking channels for farmers. Funds made
available to enterprises and farmers would be only for activities that have been
preappraised and approved by the PMOs. Interest would be charged to such funds
at the rates no less than the PCBC rates (for enterprises) and ABC prevailing
rates (for farmers) for loans of similar purposes and terms. An assurance to
this effect with respect to interest rates was obtained at negotiations.  Assur-
ances were also obtained at negotiations that loans to farmers from the revolving
funds would also be at interest rates no less than ABC prevailing rates for
similar purposes and terms.
4.11      Domestic funds, which account -for 44 percent of project costs, would be
contributed by the provincial, prefecture/municipal and county governments and
project beneficiaries, who would contribute either in cash or in kind (e.g.,



- 37 -
labor and organic manure). PMOs would receive their funds through the
corresponding bureaus of finance at each level. PMOs would use PCBC and ABC as
their banks, with the latter bearing no credit risk. A Project Agreement
incorporating all project terms and conditions would be signed between IDA and
the Government of Henan. State Council approval of the Project Agreement as well
as the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Credit.
4.12      Recovery of Proiect Investments.  Local branches of the PCBC and ABC
would disburse and recover subloans extended to project beneficiaries. PCBC and
ABC would not charge fees on their services to the PMOs but would recover their
costs through an agreed commission on funds disbursed and recovered. Full
recovery of the IDA portion of total project funding would be guaranteed by the
bureaus of finance of the counties and prefectures/municipalities participating
in the project. Counties would repay prefectures/municipalities, which would
repay the province which, in turn, would repay MOF for the use of the IDA credit.
Domestic funds would be returned to the respective county bureaus of finance,
except funds loaned from the four revolving funds for farm inputs, groundwater,
orchard and livestock development, which would be returned to each revolving fund
to maintain its viability and continuity.
D. Execution of Project Works
4.13      Major civil works for surface irrigation and agroprocessing and
agroindustrial plants would be contracted to local companies under LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Construction contracts would be signed between the
construction companies and the county PMOs, which would be responsible for
contract management. County governments would organize local farm labor to carry
out earthworks, erect small structures, level land, develop land, and construct
ponds. Construction of buildings and minor civil works for the agriculture,
livestock, aquaculture and agroprocessing and agroindustry components would be
undertaken by enterprises through local contractors or direct labor contracts.
Installation of agroindustrial equipment would be undertaken as part of ICB
contracts for the equipment. Coordination of civil works construction and
equipment installation would be the primary responsibility of concerned
enterprises. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the PPMO would submit
to IDA for review an annual work plan of the civil works to be carried out in the
next year, including a proposed schedule and bugetary and financial arrangements,
by December 31 of each year.
E. Ooeration and Maintenance
4.14      Operation and maintenance (06M) of the irrigation and drainage
component would be organized and supervised by WCB in cooperation with
representatives of farmers and other users. The EH for each scheme would be in
charge of O&M and water charge collection. Individual households would be
assigned on a contract basis to tasks such as lateral canal and drain
maintenance. The headworks of the YRDS would continue to be operated and
maintained by the YRCC. In the case of well irrigation, the group of households
would directly perform all 01 activities for contracted wells. The project
includes acquisition of additional O& equipment to strengthen the capabilities
of the EHs. The costs of O&M in each of the 7 irrigation subcomponents would be
met by a combination of water use fees and some form of contributed water user



- 38 -
labor (either provided free or at a partial wage). The present fees would in most
cases be revised in accordance with the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) guide-
lines. Existing fees of Y0.009 to YOOll per cubic meter for cash crops and
YO008 to YO.01 for grain are not adequate and would need to be raised to Y 0.02
to at least cover all O&M costs. O&M plans for each scheme would be prepared by
Henan WCB (based on World Bank/ICID guidelines) and would be reviewed by IDA
prior to initiation of the operation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Henan would (a) submit revised O&M plans for each irrigation scheme to IDA
for review by December 31, 1992 and (b) review the water charges for surface
irrigation schemes financed under the project by February 28 of each year, with
such charges revised periodically in order to achieve levels sufficient to cover
all O&M costs by November 1, 1996.
F. Prolect Launch Workshop
4.15      To initiate implementation and review of detailed design particularly
for water conservancy and agroprocessing and agroindustry components, IDA and
local staff would conduct a project launch workshop in Zhengzhou in July 1991 for
staff of the provincial, municipal/prefectural and county PMOs. The purpose of
the workshop would be to review the total program for implementation and to cla-
rify tasks and responsibilities at each level. Topics to be covered would include
procurement and disbursement procedures, financial management, and monitoring and
evaluation.
C. Monitoring. Evaluation and Regorting
4.16      The provincial, prefectural/municipal, and county PHOs and their
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) units would monitor the project's progress and
evaluate the project's economic and financial benefits for each component and its
overall impact. The county PMOs would keep an account of physical and financial
progress of each of the project components. Physical indicators would include
such items as civil works and earthworks to be completed and equipment and
materials to be procured. Financial reports would detail project expenditures
and support claims for disbursement against credit proceeds. Information on
financial and physical progress would be submitted semiannually by the county
PMOs to the prefectural/ municipal PMOs, which would prepare and forward progress
reports to the provincial PMO for each component. Progress reports prepared by
the PHO would be forwarded to IDA every six months. Routine monitoring of
physLcal and financial progress would enable PMOs to identify problems and make
adjustments as required in the project's implementation arrangements. Monitoring
of water resources by WCB would be an important part of PO10s activities. The
synthesis and assembly of information needed to improve provincial water
resources planning would be an important goal, which would be documented in a
mid-term report indicating future water resource availability (par&. 3.21). A
list of key monitoring indicators for physical progress and project expenditures
and a plan for IDA supervision are given in Annex 3, Tables 10.1 and 10.2.
4.17      As part of the process of project evaluation, a baseline survey in
selected project areas of randomly selected beneficiaries would be undertaken by
the provincial PMO and its M&E unit in cooperation with the Agricultural
Economics Research Institute of the Henan Academy of Agriculcure. Draft
questionnaires for the baseline survey and standardized reporting systems by the
PMO would be agreed upon and finalized during the Launch Workshop. A mid-term



- 39 -
review for the project would be undertaken by the PMO by October 31, 1993 to
assess progress and chart implementation of the project in the remaining period,
with the completed review submitted to IDA by December 31, 1993. Progress
reports prepared by the PMO would be forwarded to IDA every six months on July
31 and January 31. The PMO would make a broad assessment of the project's
implementation in a draft project completion report to be submitted to IDA no
later than six months following the completion of the credit's disbursement.
Assurances to the above were obtained at negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETS MM PRICES
A. production
5.1       The project v  ld substantially increase crop output by significantly
increasing crop yields and moderately increasing planted area; it would also
increase livestock and fish output primarily through improved feed and breeds.
Crop Production
5.2       Production of wheat and corn in the project area would increase by
276,000 tons and 131,000 tons, respectively; that of cotton, peanuts and paddy
by 21,700 tons, 47,000 tons and 36,000 tons, respectively. In addition, 5,500
tons of corn and peanuts would be produced in integrated production with alfalfa
(para. 5.6). The project would also result in large increases of rapeseed,
soybeans, sweet potatoes, jute, vegetables and watermelons (see Annex 3, Table
1).
5.3       Yield. Yields would increase substantially under the project.
Extension of full irrigation capability to an additional 282,000 hectares, due
to the expansion of the four YRDS and the implementation of the river regulation
and well irrigation schemes, would be the major factor contributing to the
increase in project crop yields and, due to improved water availability and
temporal distribution, would also allow cropping intensity to increase from 167%
to 179%. Improved drainage, the introduction and dissemination of improved high
yielding varieties, the increased provision and effectiveness of modern inputs,
and strengthened programs of research, extension and training would also
contribute significantly. In the case of wheat, the yield increases would be
mainly due to improved irrigation in the spring and also to an increased supply
of phosphate and pesticides, the latter to control rust and mildew. The same is
true of corn and paddy, whose yields would also get a significant boost from
improved hybrid seeds.
5.4       The yield of wheat is projected to increase from 2.2- 2.5 t/ha without
the project to 4.0 t/ha with the project; corn from 2.1- 2.4 to 4.5 t/ha; cotton
(ginned) from 0.5-0.6 to 1.0 t/ha; peanuts from 1.2-1.4 to 2.5 t/ha, and paddy
from 2.8 to 4.5 t/ha. The yields of other crops would also increase signifi-
cantly (Annex 3, Tables 1.1-1.7). It is reasonable to expect that increases in
yields of this magnitude are achievable, since they have been achieved under
similar conditions both in the project area and in the NCPAP (para 1.15). Improved
seed, fertilizer and pesticides supply and improved extension services would be
fully effective by year .3, but full development of field crop production would not
be achieved until year 8, since the necessary physical work on the irrigation
systems would not be fully completed until year 5.



- 40 -
5.5       TreeZ Caro.  The production of apples, pomegranates and plums would
increase by 81,000 tons, 12,000 tons and 18,000 tons, respectively due to the
project; likewise the production of apricots, table grapes, dates and wLcker
shrubs would increase by 12,000 tonrs, 18,000 tons, 3,800 tons and 11,250 tons,
respectively. The windbreak production of paulownia would provide 27,720 m3 of
timber when harvested in year 15. As the planting of orchard crops is phased
over 3 years and the full yield potential of most fruit trees is not achieved
until year 7, full development of tree crop production would not be achieved
until year 10.
Livgstock
5.6       Mutton, beef, pork, broiler and goat meat, hides of cattle and goats,
wool forage products and manure would be the livestock outputs under the project.
Data on the incremental production are show in Annex 3, Table 4.1. Annual
incremental production of sheep and goats from 5,500 households would reach full
production at 188,900 head in year 4; incremental beef cattle production would be
22,500 head from year 4 onward; the production of lean pigs would reach 49,800
head in year 4; and the production of poultry would reach 5.25 milion head in
Year 4. These would generate 3,980 tons of pork, 4,050 tons of beef, 8,660 tons
of broiler meat, 670 tons of mutton, 60 tons of wool and 1,540 tons of goat meat
annually. Manure generated from these animals would be approximately 760,000t
annually. Incremental goat and cattle hides would total 141,000 and 25,500 pieces
annually. A total of 73,600 tons of compound feed would be produced by feed mills
and specialized households. Forage production from 5,700 households would reach
94,400 tons, of which 71,000 tons would be alfalfa hay.
5.7       At full development, a 0.67 ha pond would yield 1.25 tons of grass
carp, 2 tons of bighead and silver carp and 1.8 tons of common carp. This would
give a yield of fish of 5 t/pond or 7.5 tons per hectare of pond surface. Annual
production of the project's 833 ha of freshwater ponds would be around 6,250
tons.
Agronrocessing
5.8       Cold Stores.  The project would construct and equip three cold stores
for fruit and vegetables and/or meat, which, at full capacity, would store 1,400
tons of apples, apricots and oranges, 900 tons of vegetables and 4,700 tons of
meat annually. The cold stores would purchase fruit and vegetables from farmers
and pack and store them for the winter season. Meat would be purchased from
slaughterhouses or farmers and would be stored as carcasses or in frozen
packages. Most meat would be sliced, shredded or cubed for the Chinese cuisine.
In total the cold stores would handle about 1,600 tons of beef, 1,900 tons of
pork, 360 tons of chicken and 840 tons of mutton per year.
5.9       Seeds.   The 20 seed centers financed under the project would process
about 29,000 tons of wheat, hybrid corn, paddy, and soybean seeds annually. A
seed base of at least 270 ha would be established at each center with cropping
intensity of 200%. Each county would produce on average about 1,450 tons of
seeds annually (800 tons of wheat, 400 tons of hybrid corn, 130 tons of paddy and



- 41 -
120 tons of soybean). This planned production would provide seeds for planting
of 542,800 ha (145,000 ha of wheat, 320,000 ha of hybrid corn and 80,000 ha of
other crops). Since the project would develop 298,000 ha of land for wheat, corn
paddy and soybean, the 20 seed centers would be able to provide sufficient seeds
and would also be able to provide seeds for an additional 244,800 ha outside the
project area.
Agroindustrial Production
5.10      The major products from the agroindustries financed under the project
would be writing and kraft paper, fructose and gibberellin. The Changyuan paper
mill would produce about 10,000 tons per year of writing paper and the Wuzhi
paper mill would produce 15,000 tons of kraft paper. Output of the Weixian
fructose plant would be 10,000 tons of fructose, 330 tons of corn oil, 1,100 totis
of corn pulp and 1,000 tons of protein powder. The Puyang plant would produce
6.5 tons of gibberellin powder, 87.5 tons of gibberellin emulsion and 1,200 tons
of filtrate per year.
B. Markets
5.11      There should be little difficulty in finding markets for the
incremental production of the project, since domestic demand for food and raw
material is rising each year due to increasing population and income. The demand
for individual commodities produced by the project is generally favorable. In
fact, it is expected that most of the incremental crop and livestock production
of the project would be consumed in the project area or in nearby towns, except
goat hides and part of the lean pork, which would be exported.. The situation of
the individual markets is as follows:
5.12      Crops. China exceeded its grain production record of 1984 in 1989's
harvest of 408 million tons and 435 million tons in 1990. Nevertheless, China is
projected to import about 15 million tons of wheat and 1.2 million tons of paddy
in 1990. Henan's 1989 grain production was 31.5 million metric tons, which was
eight percent of national production. Grain demand/supply analysis in Henan
province showed a surplus of about 5 million tons in 1989. The incremental
production of the project, about 0.5 million tons, which would be more than
enough to meet the project area's increased requirements due to population growth
and increased livestock production, would add a relatively small amount to the
province's surplus and would be sold to the deficit areas. A small percentage of
the corn would be used as input for the fructose and gibberellin plants.
5.13      The national market situation in cotton has also been one of excess
demand in recent years. At present the country's textile industry is operating
well below capacity, mainly due to lack of raw materials. While total national
production has increased over the last several years, it has not kept pace with
textile industry demand, fueled in part by large, heretofore rapidly expanding
textile exports. Total demand for cotton is expected to be 4.5 million tons in
1990, with production trailing it at 3.8-4.0 million tons. The project's incre-
mental production of cotton of 21,700 tons would be less than one percent of
national production and would supply provincial textile industries, which are
experiencing a severe shortage of raw materials, due to an inability to import
sufficiont quantities interprovincially or from abroad. Peanuts, soybeans and



- 42 -
rapeseed from the project would -upply oil processors in the province, which now
are operating below capacity becauss of inability to obtain sufficient raw
materials.
5.14      The incremental production of fruit and vegetables would be marketed
within Henan or nearby provinces. Chinese dates are consumed widely in China,
both fresh and processed, and are used in Chinese medicine. Processed dates, in
dried and candied forms and as jam and wine, are produced for both domestic and
international markets.  The incremental date production of 3,800 tons under the
project, which would be marketed without difficulty, would be supplied to local
fresh fruit markets and to processing plants. Tho incromental production of
wicker would be used as raw material for furniture and basket making in village
industries and also sold to artisans in the towns. The incremental production of
logs from the project would be sold to sawmills, which would process them into
lumber for the construction materials industry, which is expected to continue its
rapid growth. Crop by-products, such as cottonseed cake and wheat bran, would be
used in livestock production, as would wheat straw and maize stalk, which would
be used for feeding ruminants. Wheat straw, along with cotton stalks, would also
be used in paper manufacturing.
5.15      Livestock Products.  Beef, mutton and goat meat produced under the
project would mainly supply domestic markets. Provincial domestic demand for red
meat has been growing, and there would not be any problem in the absorption of
the 6,300 tons of incremental production of beef, mutton and goat meat. Current
consumption of nonpork meat in the province is in the range of 110,000 t/yr and
an important market for nonpork meat exists among the Muslim minority. Lean pig
production under the project would be exported to Hongkong, Singapore and Macao
and supply domestic markets. The Henan Foreign Trade Corporation has an export
quota of 300,000 pigs per year but was only able to supply 230,000 pigs in 1989.
The incremental production from the project of 57,000 pigs would help to fulfill
this quota. If the export market proved weak, the lean pork could also be sold
in the domestic market, and could command a premium price in Beijing and other
major cities. Sixty percent of broiler production under the project would be
sold to the CBPC which has a network of collection points, processing facilities
and marketing channels; the rest would be for Henan markets.
5.16      Hide goats would be purchased by the provincial food processors, which
would cure the hides and process the meat. The hides would be sold to tanneries
that would process them and sell them to the provincial Foreign Trade
Corporation. Goat skins are in demand in fashion centers, particularly in Italy
and Spain, and the high quality hide of Henan Huai goats should find. buyers in
the export market. Cattle hides would be sold to leather processors, with most
ultimate demand in the domestic garment industry whose demand for loather is
growing. Cattle, sheep, chicken and pig manure has a ready market in the
province. It is used widely in crop production and commands a reasonable price.
Alfalfa hay and meal would be sold to livestock farmers in the project area.
5.17      1i.zh.  All the carp produced under the project would be sold to
private fishmongers at the pond side or would be transported in large wooden tubs
directly to the markets. Fish is typically a major food in the Chinese diet, but
consumption in Henan is relatively low (1.3 kg per year), because of low supplies
from the Province. The incremental production under the project should hence
find a ready market.



- 43 -
5.18     PaDer. Gibberellin and Fructose. None of the plants would appear to
have any difficulty in marketing its full production capacity in the province.
Each of the plants has letters of intent from local companies for the purchase of
their products, and in each case the indicated demand exceeds the maximum planned
production capacity. For paper, which is a major Chinese import, the major buyers
would be printing companies, paperboard manufacturers and industrial users. Gib-
berellin powder and emulsion are preparations containing respectively 85% and 4%
of the plant growth hormone gibberellic acid, which has been used for many years
in China to stimulate the yield of numerous field crops and fruit. Gibberellin
would be sold to SMCs, which in turn would sell to farmers. The fructose produced
by the project would be used as a sweetener in the growing provincial soft-drink
and canning industries. The corn oil and corn pulp produced by the project would
be respectively used as domestic cooking oil and as culture medium in food
processing.
C. Prices
5.19      China's agricultural price policy over the past decade has focused on
adjusting procurement prices of goods marketed through the state-run system and
reducing the number of goods subject to state monopoly purchase. While lifting
price controls, the Government has encouraged a more open marketing system for
many goods by easing restrictions on both private and public interprovincial trade
in agricultural commodities and sanctioning the establishment of free retail and
wholesale markets. The sum total of these measures has been creation of a more
diverse and competitive commercial environment in agriculture. During the decade
1978-89, national free market trade increased from Y 12.5 billion to Y 197.4
billion, mostly in agriculture. Producer prices for grain, vegetables, fruit,
meat and aquatic products have more than doubled over this period as commodities
have b,en traded in free markets. Consumers, both rural and urban, have also
benefitted from the wider availability and higher quality of farm products.
5.20      This success notwithstanding, prlce liberalization has stalled during
the last two years with the emergence of rising inflatlon and sharp supply and
price fluctuations. The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to achieving a
more market-oriented economy over the long term, but at the same time has
reverted to administrative controls in the short run. Government response has
included mounting state expenditures on consumer food subsidies and growing
involvement in the allocation and sale of farm inputs.
5.21      Out2ut Prig-U.  Grain and oilseeds are priced three ways - at contract
prices set by the government, at prices negotiated with state entities and at
prices determined in free markets. Since 1984 the contract procurement system
has been used instead of the quota procurement system. The contract prices for
major commodities are set based on national price policy and was stable from
1980-87 but increased substantially in 1988. The difference between free market
prices and the contract prices was small in 1985, but by 1988 the following free
market premia existed: wheat 60%, corn 75t, soybean 85% and peanuts 100%.
Negotiated prices, generally higher than contract and lower than market prices,
have in the last two years diverged from market prices, recently by about 15%.
5.22      In Henan, grains are mainly sold at negotiated prices (paddy 80%, corn
60%, soybeans 60% and wheat 30%). Many farmers prefer to sell through negotiated
channels rather than the free market, since transportation and handling is



- 44 -
normally provided by purkhasers.  The quantity of grain sold through free markets
is thus still a minor pe: -entago. In contrast to grains, frules, vegetables,
aquatic products and livestock products are mostly sold in the free market. All
products from the agroindustrial plants would be at free market prices. Dotailld
prices can be seen in Annex 3, Tables 8.1 - 8. 3.
5.23      Cotton Prices.  Cotton lint is the only product under the project that
is still subject to 100% state contract purchase at prices announced annually by
the government, with farmers required to produce according to production quotas.
The price of cotton was fixed at Y 2.9/kg from 1984 to 1988. This low prices was
primarily responsible for a decline in Henan cotton production from 0.87 million
tons in 1984 to 0.40 million tons in 1986 and 0.5 million tons in 1989. While
maintaining low cotton producer prices, the Government nevertheless attempted to
induce higher production by non-price incentives, such as providing fertilizer
and fuel at subsidized prices, but production has not returned to the 1984 level.
In 1988, the Government requested price recommendations from major producing
provinces. The Hebei Provincial Price Bureau conducted a price analysis to
determine what cotton price would be required to induce farmers to expand
production, and made recommendations to the National Price Bureau, which resulted
in a decision to increase prices to Y 4.7/kg in 1989 and Y 6.0/kg in 1990. Since
price increase decisions are made at the national level, ic is important that the
Henan Price Bureau should also analyze cotton supply incentives and communicate
its analyses and recommendations to the National Price Bureau prior to the
annual setting of cotton prices. An understanding was obtained at negotiations
that cotton price reviews would be undertaken by the Henan Price Bureau each
year and that the results of these reviews, accompanied by Provincial
recommendatlons, would be communicated to the National Price Bureau and IDA.
5.24      Imported Inout Prices.  Farm inputs, which are mostly distributed
through the state-run distribution system, continue to be underpriced in the
project area and throughout China - for example, prices of urea and DAP are sold
at 30% below border prices - and undersupplied.  Supplies that aro provided &Ire.
mostly tied to contract procurement of grain or cotton. It has been agreed that
inputs imported under the project would be distributed to project farmers by
local levels of the SHC which would act as agents for the PMOs. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the PMOs would charge farmers a price reflecting
the full cost of imported fertilizers and pesticides plus distribution margins
and that the PPMO would annually review these prices with IDA, and make the
adjustments required to achieve these prices. This would avoid the problem of
subsidized prices depleting the fertilizer revolving fund.
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The major benefits of the project would be incremental production and
increased rural incomes. At full development, the crop development component
would provide incremental production of 452,000 tons of grain (wheat, corn, paddy
and sweet potatoes), valued net of on-farm costs at US$53 million (1990 dollars);
21,700 tons of cotton valued at US$26 million; 62,200 tons of oil crops valued at
US$11.6 million; 97,000 tons of vegetables valued at US$3.5 million; 145,000 tons
of fruits valuod at US$30 million, and 27,700 m3 of wimber and 11,250 tons of
wicker valued at US$3 million. In total, the crop cow,.onent would generate



- 45 -
incremental value of US$127 million annually. The aquaculture component would
produce annual incremental output valued at US$2.3 million, net of production
costs. The livestock component would provide incremental production of beef,
pork, mutton, poultry and goat meat, wool, hide, skin and manure net of produc-
tion costs of US$6.5 million annually. The agroindustrial (paper, fructose and
gibberellin) and agroprocessing (cold stores) plants would produce total value
added of US$10 million per annum and would create a demand for straw and cotton
stalk, providing additional income of about US$0.9 million to project farmers.
B. EmDlovment and Incomes
6.2       EmployXean  opportunities created by the project would help reduce
seasonal underemployment among the rural labor force in and around the project
areas. The farming activities of the project in irrigated areas would increase
annual demand for labor by about 12 million person-days (50,000 person-years),
mainly from an increase in the labor intensity of agriculture. The tree and
fruit farming would increase labor demand by about 2.2 million person-days.
Livestock activities would create employment for 12,000 families and require an
additional 8,400 labor years. The agroindustrial activities would create about
2,114 full-time jobs and benefit about 160,000 people who would provide raw
materials tor agroindustries.
6.3       Incomes and Povertv Alleviation   In addition to the substantial
employment effect, the improved cultural practices introducec under the project
would markedly increase the labor productivity and double the incomes of project
beneficiaries, most of whom have incomes below the provincial average. At full
development, the project would more than double the incomes of 630,000 poor farm
families. Farm model analysis shows that inaomes of farm families in the MRDS
and groundwater-development areas would increase from Y1,168 ($225) and Yl,116
($215) respectively at present to Y2,839 ($546) and Y2,655 ($511) and per capita
income in the two areas would increase from Y259 ($50) and Y248 ($48)
respectively in the two areas to Y630 ($121) and Y590 ($113) (Annex 3, Tables
3.1-3.2). Incomes of farm families in the drainage and flood control areas would
increase from Y910 ($175) and Y996 ($190) at present to Y2,066 ($397) and Y2,330
($448) with the project and per capita income would increase from Y202 ($39) and
Y220 (42) to Y518 ($100) and Y460 ($88) repectively (Annex 3, Tables 3.3-3.4).
6.4       The 12,000 households that would integrate livestock in their farming
activities under the project would have additional income ranging from Y936
($180) for goat production to Y5,790 ($1,113) for alfalfa production. Net income
from pig and broiler enterprises would be from Y8.4 to Y3.6 millon annually. The
35,000 households who would develop orchards for fruit productiorr would earn
additional income ranging from Y7,400 ($1,423) for plum to Y13,500 ($2,596)
for apples annually. The 1,200 households who engaged in fLsh production
would each earn a not income of Y15,234 (52,930) annually.
C. Emoloyment OoRortunities for Women
6.5       A major social benefit derived from the project, apart from poverty
alleviation, would be the generation of employment opportunities for women in
poverty areas. The incremental production of cotton from the project would
require about 0.5 million person-days of picking workers. Since harvesting of
cotton is primarily done by women, this figure can be translated into seasonal



- 46 *
employment of about 12,500 female workers for 40 days per season. Textile
industries would also employ more workers (mainly female) as the raw material
constraint is relaxed, but no precLse estimate Is available. The project's small
anlmal actlvities would provlde employment for 2,210 women and engage about
10,000 women in household livestock production. Incremental female employment in
new processing activities, such as seed processing, meat packing and date
processing would be approxlmately 200. The four agroindustrial plants would
employ about 550 women. Production of dogbane and collection of straw would
benefLt about 80,000 women.
D. Cost Recoye
6.6       Cost recovery for thls project would have several major elements.  The
cost of chemical fertilizer, pesticides, plastlc film and seeds would be
recovered by payments from beneficiaries. The costs of extension, research and
training (Yll milllon) would be recovered through the 5% provincial crop tax and
the special product taxes for aquaculture and llvestock of 10 % and 6%,
respectively. (These t.xes would apply to the incremental production of the
project).  Services provlded by the water conservancy and veterinary bureaus
would be recovered through service fees.  Government investment in agroprocessing
and agroindustry in the form of equity would be recovered in the normal way from
the corresponding share of enterprise profits. (The Government would also collect
enterprise profit taxes.) Cost recovery for investment in irrigation would be
through labor contributions during project construction and O&M and through an
increase in revenues from water charges.   The cost recovery analysis in Annex 3,
Table 3.5 shows that at present tax rates, project charges would be sufficient to
cover project costs with a recovery index of 30%. Rent recovery at full
development averages 25%. Discounted over the life of the project, the rent
recovery index averages 91%.
E. Financial and Economic Analysis
6.7       Financial Analvsis.  Financlal analysis has been done separately for
the crop, livestock and aquaculture components of the project. Investment and
production costs are valued at 1990 prices. Water cost is estimated at Y.02/m3.
Labor includes family labor valued at Y4.5/person-day. Outputs of crops are
valued at a weighted average of contract, negotiated and market prlces. Prices
for livestock, aquaculture and agroindustry products are the prevailing market
prices less transportation and handling costs to reflect farm gate prices. The
analysis show acceptable rates of return for all components ranglng from 25% to
39% for crops, 17% to 53% for orchards, 26% to 69% for livestock, 19% to 39% for
flshery and 21% to 30% for agroineustry (Annex 3, Tables 8.4.1 - 8.4 6).  Cash
flow analyses show positive cash flow after debt servlce for all components.
Sensitivity analysis show that FRRs for household pig and poultry production are
very sensitive to changes in prices of feed and meat. All investments in
agroindustry, apart from the Wuzhi coldstore, have acceptable rates of return of
higher than 12% if the plants are operating at only 80% capacity or if the sale
prices are reduced by 10%. Detailed analysis can be found in the project files.
6.8       Economic Analysis.  Economic analyses have been carried out for the
principal components (crops, fruit and tree crops, livestock, aquaculture and
agroindustry) and for the project as a whole, using constant 1990 border prices.
In carrying out the analysis for the project as a whole, the seed and



- 47 -
agroprocessing subcomponents have been excluded since these activities are either
inputs to farms (e.g., seeds, feed and fingerlings) or their costs are deductable
from border prices to derive farmgate prices. Processing costs for relevant
commodities, (e.g., paddy, cotton lint, pork, beef and mutton) have been
estimated based on the costs of similar existing operations. All other
investment costs along with physical contingencies have been taken into account
in estimating the economic costs of the project.
6.9       World Bank price projections or average export prices actually realized
by China were used to estimate the farmgate economic prices in 1990 conetant
terms f,r traded inputs and outputs. Economic prices for non-traded goods were
estimated using conversion factors (Annex 3, Table 6). These conversion factors
were estimated based on an analysis of the deviation of social opportunity cost
from the actual financial prices prevailing in Henan caused by taxes and price
distortions in non-traded goods. All economic values were converted to local
currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of YS.2 to US$1. Farm and
unskilled labor has been valued at Y2.88 per manday, representing 64% of the
prevailing average wage rate of about Y4.5/manday in the project areas. Based on
the above, tle results of the economic analysis are summarized in Annex 3, Table
9.1 and sensitivity analysis are summarized in Annex 3, Table 9.2.
6.10      Cg2s:  Incremental costs and benefits for the crop component as a
whole have been estimated with and without the project. Incremental costs
include all investment costs plus physical contigencies, incremental 06M costs
and water pumping costs for both wells and surface irrigation. Fertilizer,
pesticides and other inputs are costed at farmgate economic prices. All farm
labor including family labor has been taken into consideration in calculating the
ERR. Incremental benefits, including by-products are estimated on the basis of
average yield projections from representative average cropping patterns with and
without the project. Economic prices for crops and principal inputs are
summarized in Annex 3, Tables 7.1-7.2. Based on the above assumptions, and a 20-
year period of analysis, the ERR of crop development in the seven irrigation
areas ranges from 27% to 50%. The ERR for the total component is estimated at
38%. This high return reflects the existence of sunk costs and the resulting
relatively low per-hectare investment cost. This component is not rendered
unprofitable by significant changes in costs and benefits: incremental yields
would need to be 48% lower than those estimated an4 incremental costs 94% higher
for the ERR to fall to 12%.
6.11      Tree Cros:  Economic analyses have been carried out for new fruit
orchards, windbreaks, wicker bushes, and Chinese dates intercropped with wheat.
Costs, including development and operating costs inclusive of family labor, were
converted to economic costs using the methods described above. Farmgate fruit,
wicker and lumbar prices were derived from 1990 Henan market prices adjusted for
processing, transportation and handling costs. It is assumed that fruit trees
have a production life of 20 years. The farmgate economic prices of dates were
based on prices received by the Foreign Trade Corporation adjusted for
transportation and handling costs. Under the above assumptions, fruit, windbreak
and wicker have ERRs of 42%, 19% and 25%, respectively. The ERR for the total
component is estimated 37%. The component is very sensitive in changes in the
prices of fruit; if prices fall by 10%, the ERR would reduce from 37% to 12%.



- 48 -
6.12      Livestock:  Economic analyses have been carried out for each
subcomponent, as well as for the livestock component as a whole. The values of
by-products were taken into consideration when computing economic farmgate
prices. These prices were based on average export prices for the different
categories of meat and the average import price of wool, discounted for quality
differentials and adjusted for domestic transport and handling costs. The costs
of alfalfa production and the cost of upgrading technical and veterinary support
services were included. Based on these assumptions, the ERRs ranged from 28% to
49% for the subcomponents and was 29% for the livestock component as a whole.
Sensitivity analysis shows that the pig and broiler household production are
highly sensitive to changes in the meat and feed prices. A reduction in meat
price by 10% would make the ERRs negative in both cases. An increase in costs by
6% would make the ERRs fall to 12% in both cases.
6.13      Aouaculture   All investment costs related to the establishment of the
ponds, including feed mills and hatcheries, the eosts of maintaining the
facilities, and the cost of technical support have been included in the analysis.
The economic farmgaLe price for fish was derived from the market price of fish in
Henan. The economic price for fish feed was estimated on the basis of the
economic prices of the component elements and estimated milling and other costs
(Annex 3, Table 7.3). On this basis, tha ERRs ranged from 21%-30% for the
subcomponent and was 26% for the aquaculture component as a whole. This
subcomponent is sensitive to changes in price of fish; a reduction in price by
10% would reduce the ERR from 26% to 20%.
6.14      Agroindustries.  Investment costs for agroindustries include site
preparation, buildings, purchasing and installation of equipment, and ovehead
costs. Operating costs include those for materials, labor, marketing and
maintenance.   The economic factory-gate prices of writing and kraft paper are
derived from the price of imported paper of the same quality. The economic
prices for fructose and plant hormone are derived from actual financial prices
received in previous-year contracts, adjusted for the economic prices of
transport and handling. On this basis, the ERRs ranged from 26% to 32%. This
component is marginally sensitive to reduction in product prices or increase in
costs of production.
6.15      Total Proect:  Based on the above analyses, the project's ERR is
35.8%. Its net present value (at a 12% discount rate) is Y2,063 billion.
F. Risks
6.16      The project faces no major organizational or technical risks.  The
Provincial Government is highly committed to it. The risks that do exist are
either small or have been effectively minimized. The risk of Inadequate
management capability in the project entity is minimized because management is
essentially in place and would be strengthened under the project. The risk of
inadequate coordination between agencies responsible for irrigation and
agriculture after the construction period has been minimized by having WCB staff
assigned to lower-level PMOs. The risk that the development of well irrigation
in Yanjin County might adversely affect wetlands has beetn minimized by delaying
implementation until satisfactory environmental evaluation has been made. The
risk that the recharge groundwater technology might not be effective has been
minimized by limiting the scale of the subcomponent to a pilot scheme. The risk



- 49 -
that the Government would not provide adequate price incentives for cotton has
been lessened with recent major government procurement price increases, by the
establishment of an annual cotton price review, and by institutionalizing
provincial input into the National Price Bureau. The risk of inadequate
counterpart funding has been minimized by assurances from Henan that it would
annually provide IDA with proposed and approved budgetary allocations in advance
and that the PLGs at each level would mobilize counterpart funding.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurar.:es were obtained from the Henan Province that:
(a) Four revolving funds would be established and maintained by county BOFs
for (i) groundwater development (para. 3.6); (ii) farm inputs (para.
3.16); (iii) orchard development (para. 3.19); and (iv) livestock
development (para. 3.27). Interest rates charged to farmers would be in
accordance with para. 7.1 (i);
(b) A water resource management plan would be submitted to IDA for review
by December 31, 1992, and the number of new and rehabilitated wells
would be limited to those financed under the project until IDA has
reviewed the water resource management plan and agreed that the
assesament of groundwater potential supports the establishment of
additienal new wells (para. 3.12);
(c) Henan would provide to IDA for the province and for each
municipality/prefecture and county in the project (i) a statement of
proposed budgetary allocations for the project by January 31 of each
year and (ii) a detailed statement of approved budgetary allocations by
April 30 of each year; the PLGs would be responsible for the
mobilization of counterpart funding at each level (para 3.49);
(d) The PMO would furnish to IDA for its review and approval a plan for
domestic and overseas training and study tours for implementation
during the next calendar year by December 31 of each year during
project implementation (para. 3.54);
(e) The Provincial PMO would establish and maintain consolidated accounts
for all components, which would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA.  The audited accoun  together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each financial year and would include details of withdrawals
from the credit account made on the basis of SOEs and the auditor's
opinions as to whether such withdrawals were against expenditures
eligible for reimbursement by IDA. The State Audit Administration
would carry out the auditing of the project (para. 3.58);
(f) All agrochemicals financed under the project would be approved by IDA
and used in accordance with guidelines acceptable to IDA (para. 3.62).
The PEPB would approve the final designs of the treatment facilities
for each agroprocessing and agroindustrial enterprise prior to



- 50 -
construction, and these enterprises would implement and maintain
effluent monitoring and treatment systems according to the final
designs approved by the PEPB (para. 3.62);
(g) It would maintain the PLGs with composition and reponsibilities
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.2) and the PMOs with function and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA and staffed by competent staff in
adequate numbers (para. 4.3);
(h) Draft operational guidelines for the agroprocessing and agroindustrial
enterprises would be provided for review by IDA before finalization,
the enterprises would be managed by competent staff with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA, and they would be financially sound,
maintaining at all times a debt-equity ratio (determined in a manner
acceptable to IDA) no greater than 5:1 (para.4.9);
(i) Funds made available to project enterprises and farmers would be at
interest rates no less than the prevailing rates for PCBC and ABC for
loans of similar purposes and terms (para. 4.10);
(j) The PPMO, by December 31 of each year, would submit to IDA for review
an annual work plan for civil works to be carried out in the following
year, including a proposed schedule and bugetary and financial
arrangements (para. 4.13);
(k) Henan would submit rovised O&M plans for each irrigation scheme to IDA
for review by December 31, 1992 and would review the water charges for
surface irrigation schemes financed under the project by February 28 of
each year, with such charges revised periodically in order to achieve
levels sufficient to cover all O&M costs by November 1, 1996 (para.
4.14);
(1) The PPMO would: (i) prepare progress reports to be forwarded to IDA by
January 31 and July 31 of each year during project implementation and
(ii) undertake a mid-torm review by October 31, 1993 and submit the
raeviow report to IDA by December 31, 1993 (para 4.17); and
(m) The PMOs would charge farmers prices reflecting the full cost of
imported fertilizer and pesticides plus distribution margins, and the
PPMO would annually review these prices with IDA and make the required
adjustments to achieve these prices (para. 5.24). 
7.2       Understandings were obtained at negotiations that (a) passenger
vehicles would be provided by Henan (para 3.52) and (b) a review of cotton prices
would be undertaken each year by the Henan Price Bureau and the results and
recommendations would be communicated to tho National Price Bureau and IDA (para.
5.23).
7.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed projoct would constitute
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 81.4 million (US$110 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the People's Republic
of China.



CHIIU
KM  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Basic Provincial wd Project Area Statistics
. ._..  __............... ..............................._._.__._ _............._.__. ._..................................................................................................................................... .....
Jiaeu         Xirzsia           PuPn               Kalfang        Shnigqiu         Total            X
.............................................._.__.._....._._. ......  _  _............                       Of
ItoelDcription           Ulit  Proince  Totat Proj Arcs Total Proj Area Total Proj Area Total Proj Area Totat ProJ Aref  Total Proj AreaProvince
_...___......_ ..__ ._ _ .....................................................................................................................................
Total Ltd Area          S000 h   16,700      590      360      8       490      410      260     620      Sa0   1.040      500   3.460   2,190        13
Totat Cuttivated Laid   B0S0 ha   6,940      217      131      364     201      255      163     372      358      634     28S  1,862   1.141         16
irrigatedArea            000 1h    3.430     176       67      303     195      201      129     248      237     280       89   1,208      717       21
Foret                   coSo he   1,670       68       13      104      27       12       10     117      114      64       26      365     190       11
Orasstd                 1 h00 a   3,800       50       23      166      95       39       32      12       10      175     109      U2       269       7
PopLtation:
Total                      1000  82.310   3,333    1.760   4,618   2,634   2.962    1.757   4.006   3.327   6,606   2,874  21,525   12,352            15
Agriattre                 1060  71,660   2,648    1.601    3,857   2.432   2.610    1,534   3.326   3,146   6,109   2,726   18,550   11,439          16
Fam Laboers                1000  27.064   1,169       503    1,622     965   1.042       651    1,461   1,379   2.918   1,345   8,212   4.843         18
Fmllies                    1000  16,654      605      270      863     524      571      341     741      736   1.402      665   4,182   2,536        1s
Tornlips                    go.   2,125      102       42      152      97       77       44      93       a5      196      86      622      354      17
Adinistrative vitllas       Eo.  47,678   2,324       965   3,530   2,454   2,928    1.680   2.217   2,068   2.104   4,470   13.103   11,657          24
Creged Areas:
Ilseet e000 ha  47,334   1,499                        8W    2,689   1.007   1835    1,185   2.7B1    2,706   4,414   2.093  13,218   8,685            18
pa"                     'oo he   4,267        36       36      2s      211      123       65      42       23        0       0      488     335        8
Camn                    060 ha  20,312   1.082        631   1,293      65S      690      470     774      762   2,504   1,266   6,343   3,786         19
cotton                  "0O  ha   6,362      la7      a6       678     472      394      207     969      969   1,108      553   3.356   2,302        28    u
li  cmp                 0oo6       9,154     l70      139      415     306      225      174     766      743      752     263   2,326    1,645       18 l
Vewgt*es                 600 ha   4,176      165       a7      194      93      161      119     261      207      392     150   1,173      656       16
Pktalms00e he   2,032                         33       20       53      44       78       46      89       77      154      62      407     249       12
Proiwttfen
6raim                    1.00St  31,494   1,465       890   2,077   1,303   1.296        849   1,436   1,390   2.546   1,243   8.820   5,675          18
Cotton                   1,O0Ot      527      17        6       59      37       33       18      72       72       58      29      239      162      31
oil Crps                 1.0ot    1I15        33       26       72      51       44       33     16       159       68      15      361      286      24
VeetdAles                1,01ot   6,935      sUB      252      637     234      349      266     512      311      626     289   2,712   1,352        1s
Helms                    1,Ooft   3,a55       97       54      108      63      134       75     159      124      313     1s1      811     487       13
"Mt                      1,01St   1.215       52       27       47      28       32       21      59       56   1,159       54   1,349       186      15
Fruits                  1,O0t      760       38       21       22      11       19       9       30       29      67       26      176      96       13
Dqatic Prads             1,OOt      9g        o        0        3       3        1        0       3        1        1       4        a       a        6
Livetock PapalatJa-
Lage Animts               1,000  11.116      255       96      69      452      195      106     48       469   1,257      693   2,834   1,816        16
Sheeplsts                 1.000  13.717      172       86      367     296      832      634     910      886   2,151      818   4,432   2,720        20
Pigs                      1,000  16,802      732      367    * 696     411      553      345     870      836   1.343      5SO   4.194   2,487        15
Poultry                   1,000 189,335   7.877   3,112   9,604   5,669   5,539   3,978   9,183   8,452  11,565   3,334  43,768  24,545               13
abit                      1,000   3,90       135       74       56      52      547      433     184      165      155      82   1,077      606       20
Totat GM:
Crops                  Yl lNtimn 30,333   1,657       966   2,327   1.339   1.455        953   1,693   1,586   2,543   1.168   9,675   6,032          20
forat Prodkts          T Utilian  1,900      143      111      132      86       64       28     126      125      146      50      611     400       20
Livestock              r Nillan  9,039       41       284      403     235      286      200     416      376      818     360   2.384   1.455        16
Fisheries              T NIIon    287          7        6        8       6        4       2       12        3       14       5       45      22        a
Per Capita lncom       Ta/ear    457         496      450      470     402      47       431     425      361      363     360      432     392       86        ° I
4      : Proincial Statistical urmu, November 1989.



CHINA
HBENAN AGRICOULTUlRAL DEVnELOPMEtR  ROEh
COunalo no Dat of 14"Sn Yea (P 75%)
Tota
JaL    Mak. mmL  AM   ME          i  hmu      1 Aug.    Dat  N. IL  Avem
Rainfa (nmn)     15.6   0.3   38.8  48.1  42.7  50.2 308.2  16.8   0.10 39.4  20.3   7.8   588.3
Evapoatdi (nmn)   38.5  75.9  124.6  146.8 230.2 370.6 197.1  212.6 265.8 198.8  74.1  37.0  1,972.0
T     _nycr au(O c)    -2.6   1.2   6.8  13.3  19.0  26.5  25.7  26.2  20.3  14.4   7.7   1.1    13.3
Sunsine (hours)   192.7 217.9  214.5  168.2 246.1  266.8 205.5 290.4 241.6 236.1  196.9  166.0  2,642.70
Relaive Humity (%) 57.1  59.9   62.3  59.7  62.3  63.3  75.9  80.6  77.6  72.6  68.3  56.9    66.4
Wind Velocity (n/s)   3.9   3.9   4.3   3.7   3.2   3.8   3.6   2.7   3.2   3.0   4.0   2.8      3.5
Source lbe mbecologica Bueu of Ham Poince.



Ane3 1
- 53 -TAble 3.1
_ien apfoaLturl fet  gong PrOje
A.  3CC ALtieo l.  of Yetteo  Rive  Ftim  - Yr  M00
Atteloatn by Prao
............ .......................................... .e,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,, ................................................ ......... . ...... . ............. .
Prowl                         linulmi  SUWuN     Gomma    Uhala  9. Ningulla               Ihmuf  NW~           Sbufng lhNil a ?1.nj1.   11.
Atte tfam  Iftmtn an          1.41       0.04      3.0       4.J0         3.80             4.1       3.4        T  r.oo       2.00             r.0
........-...... .. . ..........................a..  n. ..   .... -..   ............
S.  Nabtly Atteeetwt of rAtows River Pl.* Towr 3                    at  Mx Pruetfltty
Ut thm Ifeotengi Sm
mtHtllu doe)
.......... . ............ .... .... . .................. ....................... ............ . .............. . ........
Nl        JuL       Avg        Sept        n       Novw      cO0"      Jan         ib      NW        w          NW        ANt       Tout
.. ............... .. . ...... .... . .......................................................................... . ..
13 tntt Is 
maswu.*outamn 1671    4374               359       1?9       1952      1"4       g1i       1149    2M           194?      use       730       21
:nen Attetes  412             441        1Z        190       114        1"0       190      2n        1         443        S"        5A        340
13 Otdtlow free
I       .           11st      3732       14r       Ida2      1          15       199       7         12S        150       147       21V   t U5
- . ....................................................................
C. Nmthty Atteitm   of  rlttGw Rver Fltw  * Yeer  M   at m   Prebubfttty
flonan Prowifis
Vfth Xtelar4it Sm
CNILLte'o)
.......   .                                                           ...  .                               ..... .
NiRt   .-aut        Age        soe       Os.       NW        Se        am         eb       NaW        Apr       NW        am        Tout
* * ......l.....*. -......... ... ..  ...          ......... .  ......                 . 
TR tftaw at
mnnAttslfwt    U2    wz    I"2 I"                                    § .            tF    $90 1                       S"f #  _<0 35e
Ti 0wgt towl fm
11_n                 2tW  V2T    2144   IMP   tZ2i   17    a"   ai    II"   I"?   M                                                 105   t"
....................................................................................................  -------.----......... .   - . . . . . . .. ...... .- -_  



-54 -
Annex 1
Table 3.2
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Requirements for Maior Croos
Gross Quota for Different
Theoretical   Effective   Theoretical    Adopted             Efficiencies
EVAP-TRANS   Rainfall        Quota      Not quota    0.50      0.81    0.90 /a
Crop        (mm)          (mu)          (mm)        (ml/ha)              (ms/ha)
Wheat        497           234          263          2,700      5,400    3,333   3,000
Cotton       586           416          170          1,500      3,000    1,851   1,667
Corn         370           265          105          1,350      2,700    1,667   1.500
Rice       1,300           375          925         10,800     21,600   13,333  12,000
la Values adopted for Irrigation EfficiencLes for different irrigation systems were as
follows:
- Surface Irrigation                                                      0.50
- Groundwater Irrigation used conjunctively with surface irrigation  i 0.81
- Groundwater Irrigation (with pipe saving systems)                     a 0 90



55-                                 Ann-x
Table 3.
0HZNA
HZNAN AGRZCULTURAL D3V3LOPM3NT PROJECT
Water Supply and Demand Ln the Project area.
Yellow Rlver DlversLon Schemes    Well Zrrlgatlon Scheme
Present          Yr 2000          Present    Yr 2000
Supply                                               (billion cbm)
-Yellow RLver               0.489              0.892               -           -
-Local Water Resources      0.017              0.038               -           -
-Groundwater                0.073              0.053           1.547       1.547
Total                   0.579              1.280           1.547       1.547
Demand
-Agriculture                0.549              1.230           0.662       0.993
-MunLcipal & Industrial    0.030               0.050           0.132       0.153
Total                   0.579              1.280           0.794       1.146
Surplus/Deficlt             0.000              0.000          +0.753      +0.401
-----------------    ----------------- --
Sourcet Ronan Water Conservancy Dureaue



IENAN ACRICULltAL DELIENT PRNOJECT
Basic Data for Ir. Cr.. Comonnt
Total     Total    Frarmrs    VIllae   (otal wells Existing    NW    Phasing of 19v.lomment (ha rear) la
Subcomponent        houseold  area (ha)  lond (ha)  land(h6)    roquired    wells    wells          I        2         a         4
VIs&resW troee         1,400                 6,00-                    -          -           -          - 
wicker hushes          *,00       1,1600     1,600        -           -      .6_..   4W0                               . 40W0
Date rehabilitatlee    4,000      2,000      2,000        -          ooa        go         21U      1,000.., 10,       . -         -
Applee                 1,200       ,60oo     8,050      660         545        ISO         $96        900     900        90     0 W0
poemgranate            1,600        3Oo       650       160         121        8*           6         200     200        200      200
les                    2,400      1,200       960       260         191        t0          |||       goo      g°
Apricots               1,000        *00       Goo       200         121         40          01       200      200        200      200
Or_p                   1,00         300       400       400         121         2C          9        2200                205      20
J.tkl              86400 10.l00 a4..1T              1.560   I .t92.          m        L.0 !2 6,850    2 !!0                       0      L 
ExIstlan Lead Use (ha)         ProDo od Lnd Ur  h                         Lecetien of P'reur_a
Croo   wOrchar      Waste       CroE        ca       Ws&L      JJaozuo  X nxit  X<            P!!H     Shaugqul
Apples                 0.           -        0.16      0.45         0.50      0.01           A  Y2i8aa   j  Iat'   _u         Xilqi
P                        .tOst- 0.20 0.20              0.41         0.50 ' k: 0.09               Feqql    KIlf  -g
Plans                  0.10         -       0.30       0.20         0.60   - 0.80      Jly-                  -         -        -
Apriuet                0.15         -       0.25       0.N1        0.0       0.15    .  -       Yuan lea    _         _       uchls
0rae                   0.34                 0.16       0.42         t.C0      0.06    Weoslas       -        -      El no Fess  -
1at4                   0.46        0.55                0.46         0.55       -          -         -         -     Prymse      -
L  Netes  AlI Netls for now pleatiugs of fruit tress will beh "abltshed la year 1.
. .



CHINA
NENAN AGRIWLTURAL DEVELOPhENT PMOJECT
Animi Husbandry Component
Nuders nd Locations of Specialized Households nd Formn
Production nd Size at Full DeveLopment
mmicipm(ity County       Beef Cattle    Nutton Sheep   Hide GCots      Alfalfa       Broilers     Lean Pigs     Lean Pigs
SN Product    SH Product    SN ProdUct     SN ProdUct    SN ProdcUt    SN ProdUct Fare  Product
No.    Hd    No.    Nd    No.        Nd    No.   Ton    No. OOOHd    No.    Nd    No.    Nd
Jiazu                   1.00W  4.80                                                 300   600      50 3,000       1 6.440
ban        1,000 4.800                                  600 23.160                    50 3,000       1 6,440
LAnhi      1.000 4,800                                  600 23,160                    50 3.000       1 6.440
Xieuia       TuuWu                      500 10,200                                                                1 6.440
Ji (Iihus)                                                                           50 3,000
Yunjin                     500 10.200                                 300   600
Fw wqiu                    500 10.200                                                                                        -
awn                                                                   300   600
rulmo        Ginfeng                                 1,300 3G,220
City Saas                                                             300   600
KaIfenu      Meishi                                                                                50 3,000       1 6.40
Tonwxu                                   300  6,820                                  50 3,000        1 6.440
Rl                                       300  8,20
County                                                                300   600
Shuwqiu      Tudbuw                                   900 26.460                    300   600
Xlayl                                    700 20.560
Ymucbmn                                  500 14.7                     300   600
Totat                   3,000 14.400  1,5D0 30,600  4,000 117,600  1,200 46,320  2,100 4.200    300 18,000        6 3.,640
.. .. ... ............. ... ..... .... .. ... .. ........... ... ........... .... ... ... ....I.



HENAN AGRIULTURAL DEWELOPIET PROJECT
Suaary of Agricultural Research Topics
Researdh Areas
Research Topics                      ----------------------------             Responsible              Period   Total
Descriptions      Locations            Organizations              (Year)    Cost
............ ....................... _.................. _...... ...........___..____.__.... _......... .. ..__. .._.__................
(County)                                                 (Yun)
1. Studies to Ffid Ways to           Poor Areas    Cbhuwguan        Agro-Econ Institute of KRAS &         5     248U000
Increase Farm Income.                             aixian          Comty Gov$ts of Chaguuiwan
TswJau               Oixian and Tucheng
2. Raising Fertility mad Yield      Experismntat        Lukte        Geography Institute of HAS &         4     220.000
on SanWy Low fertitity Soils.        Zones          fengqiu        Lankao County Scienees  nd
Technology Comission
3. Fertilizer Application for       Experi ental       TucYnsg       Soil mnd fertility Institute         4     132.000
Corn and wheat Rotation.            Zones          oinxian    of Ienan Academv of Ag. Science &
COsugysan   Conty qgro-technical Stations
4. Evaluation of Varieties *nd  Major ProdLkcing       Kaifeng   Horticulture Institute of EARS £         3     120.000
Culturat Techniques for             Aress           Olxin   Agrotechnical Extension Stations in
Watermelon.                                        Muixi.              these comties.
5. Evaluation and Popularization  Major Prodwcing      Toueng  Naize Institute of Eeran Agriculture    3        150.000
of New Hybrid Corn and Hybrid        Areas           Oiaimn  University I Grain Crop Institute of
Ceon Seed Produetion                                TurnWang  EARS ad Agro-tecmnical Extension
Cuamgyumn Station in these counties.
Vnaian
6. Evaluation of New Varieties    MaJor Produicing     lucing   InsrAtrial Crop Institute of EUAS &       3     160.000
of Peanwuts and Soybean              Areas           4ixian   enan Agriculture University & Agrc-
Kaifenp  Technical Extension Stations in the
Latak   seven osamties.
7. Techniques for nigh-Yielding  Major Producing                 hNeam Forestry tesearch Institute &      4     200.000
Orchards                             Areas                    HortiOUlture Institute of ERRS with
Forestry Technical Stations In
Project Cownties.
8. Regular Technical Workshops                                   Prov. PUS and Scientific Research        5     100.000
N_ .gmnt 0epartment of LRRS.
9. Study on IPN for cheat,                                       Plant Protection Inmtitutes of ERRS      5     160,000
cotton and paddy.                                             and Local Plant Protection Units.                                                         X
%A-



trnin
ElAN ARICULTUL DEVELfIENT PROJECT
Training Prograws - Agriculture Cooponent
Location   Duration  Total           go. of Trainee by Year
Traines                   Training Topics             of Training   Dpys  Tratinees   PI       PY2      PY3      PT4     PY5
Agriculturt Eto ion
___..........__....
Village GrOUp Leadrs      Extemsion Training           Toaship    6 days   31.161  15.580  15,580
lmuahip Supervisors       Extanion Training             Comty       6 days       B0       80
Fietd Extmiaon Mwker.    Exteai on Training             County      6 days      480      371     109
Subject natter Specifaist  Technical Training         University   30 dayp      1608    160
Extesion Supervisors      ExtensilTednicatl           Univernity   30 dbp       160      160
Tofal                                          32.011   16.351  15,689        0        0       0
orseas Study Tom
ProvincuCoat staff        ExtuwioeVesaarch             IndI eia    20 Days        5        5
Foresty Bureaui
cowy Staff                Isugm nt                     Province    30 days      100       45      55
Cm"rty staff              Technical                    Province    30 days      100       45      55
Cohnty Staff              Orchard Pltming               Couty       15 das      100       SC      SO
Farm  Tehniciem           Uiosb Yield AFpes             Coasty      15 day    i.OG      250      250      250     250
Fanurs                    Production Tecniqus          Townhip    15 daw    3,000       750      750      750     750
flua  Tedmicfis           Integrated Pest Pu_int        Cousty      15 dys   1,000      250      250      250     250
Femus                     Inteaed Pest Nlmst    Toe ship    15 day    3,000             750      750      750     750
Villawe U_a               Vicker Prodaction &          Towmaip    30 day    5,600   2,400   1,68        1,520
Villag  HuNn               Basket Raking                            30 dap    2,400   1,040      720      640
Total                                             16,30   5,580   4.560   4,160   2.000           0
Nmr.eas Study TOW
.__._____._________
Proincial/comty staff    Aple Ureeding, Cultivation       USA       20 dasp       5       5
Inteorated Pet _Imnt
Couty crop Protection Staffintegrated Pest _nuummt   Province    15 day         120      120
TouI p Crop Protect. Staff integrated Pest Nlng_mnt    county       7 days      710     355      355
Farmer Training-en        Integrated Pest m        tmuut   Towhmip    5 dap    18.000   9,000   9,000
Fer  Trainingrmen         Integrated Pest N_ nt    Towbip    5 dea   42,000  21,000  21,000
, ~~~~~... ....__.____........
Total                                             60,830  30.475  30,355
Seed C_onent
._............
e Seed Centes
Seed PIr   ins          Sed Processing               Proince    30 da"         40      40
Seed Testers            Seed Testinog                Province    30 dpys       40      40
Production suvisor        Seed Production              Prowince    30 das        40      40
Coanty Seed prodstion StaffSeed Production, ality &   Prince    30 days         120      60       60                                           e.g
Storage
Cotten Seed 6im_ry Staff  on job-Trainig            Other Province 30 days       12       12
............. .............
252     192       60                              



HEMAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Comporent
Summary of Research arm Training Programs
._. ........................................................................................
Responsible        Period      Total
Topics                                    Descriptions               Organizations        (Year)      Costs
1. tesearch                                                                                           (Yuen)
1) Beef Cattle Production      Improve breed through                  HAS & HAHB            5        175,000
selection, crossbreeding
and registration progras
2) Feed nd Forage Resource   For livestock feed resource               HAAS & MMIS          3         110,000
Survey                    plaming policy for the
Province.
3) Use of Cottonseed Neal for Feeding trials and an assess-            HAAS & NAHB          3        160.000
Pigs and Poultry Feeding   sent of using cottonseed for
possible substitution for
imported fishmeal.
43 Sheep and Coat Improvement Breed improvement programs for           HAAS & HANB          4         160,000
fi imotl, mutton sheep and
goat.
5) Straw Amfonification        improved Feed for Beef Production           HANB             2         41.000
i1. Training                                                                                                                                  I
1) Livestock ExtensiGn        Animt breeding, Al services,              AA & NAN            3         U4.000                                 0
mutrition, farm mangemnt ndI
agri-business topics.
2) Veterinarian               Diagnostic skills, intensive             KAAS &  HANB         3        117,600
prodxction, etabolic disease,
lnmtology, prst-aortu and
pathlogy skills, therapeutic
skfils and preventive medicine.
3) Households
Broiler Production         Production, fam  maagmnt,           Trainers from  county     3        29,SO0
Pig Pro&action             disease control, mutition,         Itounship veterimnry
oamt & Sheep Production    animal breeding, amonification        service station
Beef Cattle Prod&ction     agri-business.
Alfaltf Pro.ction
III. Study Tours              Rsminant prodciction & breeding             HANB
----------- .to Austratli                                    S persons x 20 days                177,M
Intensive production of pigs &             NANi
broilers to USA                  S persons x 20 days                117,0
IV. Technfcal Asnbstance      Pig a Poultry                       I Person Month                      66,400
.......... ..-------------------..... 
Note.:
HAAS u Ienan AcadamV of Agrfculture Sciencs
MASS a Uen  Animal HNuWanry Sureu
eLm a



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5.4
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONENT
Base Cost
Scheme                     Area    Base cost   Cost/ha   Cost/hala
ha     Y ('000)        Y        US$
1.  Zhaokou West    YRDS                    71,900    163,174      2,187      463
2.  Xianghuzhu       YRDS                   24,300     49,106      1,905      404
3.  Shitouzhuang    YRDS                    17,200     24,965      1,397      296
4.  Qucun           YRDS                    33,100     70,226      2,045      433
5. Groundwater Irrigation                   83,700     66,110        756      160
6.  Yu-Xia-Yong Drain                       40,200     23,147        555      118
7.  Dongshahe River Regul                   11,500     28,107      2.353      498
Subtotal                          281,900    424,835      1,507       319
(avg)
8.  Qucun Pilot Storage and Irrigation       6,700     33,160/b        -
9.  Irrigation support                           -      2,195
Total Base Cost                         -    460,190
La  Exchange rate Y 4.72lUS$.
lb  Cost include Y 13.135 million for lining of Qucun YRDS main canal.



-62-                             ~~~ANNX 2
CHINA                                     Table 1
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Yuan                                 W S                              X TotaL
.................................    ...........................-    % Forefgn          lase
Local.   Forefgn      Total        Local   Farr!gn    Total        Exchange      Costs
Irrigatfon & Drainage
1. YR Olversion Sche ms        192296.5   114466.6  306763.1        38091.0  20675.9  58766.9             37.3       33
2. Drainage & Wells              14413.7     8733.4    23147.1       2856.0    1578.3   4434.3            37.7        2
3. River ReguLatfon              17178.9    10928.2    28107.2       3411.7    1972.8   5384.5            38.9        3
4. Groundwater 0ev.              36700.8    29409.7   66110.5         7342.0   5322.8  12664.8            44.5        7
5. Oucun Storage & Irrig.        19559.7    13600.4    33160.1       3897.8    2454.7   6352.5            41.0        3
6. Irrigation Support             1138.0     10S7.5     2195.5        226.5      194.1     420.6          48.2        0
-Total                         281287.6   17819S.8   459483.4       55825.1   32198.6  68023.6            38.8       50.8
Agriculture & Forestry
1. Soeds                         6924.5      7921.6    14846.1      1385.6    1458.5   2844.1            53.4        1
2. Agric Inputs                   3545.9   35293.7   38839.6          744.1   6696.5   7440.5             90.9        4
3. Tunnol Greenhouses             2161.5     1618.3     3779.8        430.9      293.2    724.1           42.8        0
4. Orchards & Troes              22428.7    11739.6    34168.3       4421.9    2123.8   6545.6            34.4        3
5. Agrfc Support                 3389.9      2669.2     60S9.1        670.4     490.4    1160.7           44.1        0
6. Res.&Training                  2194.2     1734.0     3928.3        436.9     315.7    752.5            44.1        0
-Total                          40644.7   60976.4   101621.1         8089.7  11378.0  19467.7             60.0       11.2
Livestock Development
1. Sheep & Goat Prod.            6899.8      6649.6    13549.5       1372.9    1222.8   2595.7            49.1        1
2. Beef Cattle                   10220.6    12930.8    231S1.5       2056.7    2378.5   4435.2            55.9        2
3. Alfaltfa Prod.                 7331.1     315S.2    10486.3        1430.7    578.2   2008.9            30.1        1
4. Pig Operation HHr               587.8      613.6     1201.5         118.3     111.9    230.2           51.1        0
5. Comercial Pig Farms           16891.1     9574.8    26466.0       3316.4    1753.7   5070.1            36.2        2
6. Broiler Prod. HHs              8364.3     3393.1    11757.4        1634.3    618.1    2252.4           28.9        1
7. Broilor Processing            9645.0      7099.4    16744.4       1914.0    1293.7   3207.7            42.4        1
8. Research & Training             685.1      844.8     1529.9         136.2     156.9    293.1           5S.2        0
Sub-Total                          60625.0    44261.5   104886.4        11979.5    6113.7  20093.2           42.2       11
0. Aquaculture Devoiopment
1. Jiazou Municipality          10149.7      7805.9    17955.6       2021.7    14181    3439.8           43.5        2
2. Puyang Municipalfty           3572.4    2543.5       6116.0        709.9    461.7.  1171.6             41.6        0
3. Shengquf Prefecture            57n9.1     4112.0     9841.1        1138.5     746.6   1885.3           41.8        1
4. Xinxlang Municipalfty         9550.7      6986.4    16537.1       1898.7    1269.3  53168.0            42.2        1
b-Total                          29001.9    21447.9    50449.8        5768.8   3896.0   9664.7             42.5        5
Agrofndustry
1. Fructose Plant               10902.2    20596.9    31499.1        2183.2    3851.1   .6034.3          65.4         3
2. Plant Growth Hormone          8213.9    21024.2    2923S.1        1671.5    3929.7   5601.2            71.9        3
3. Papermtils                   45922.9   60414.3   106337.3         9127.0   11244.1   20371.1           56.8       11
4. Cotdstores                    6856.7      6009.9    12866.5       1353.8    1111.0   2464.9            46.7        I
.....  ...........................    ..............................   ....................
eb-Total                          71895.7  108045.3   179941.0        14335.6   20135.9  34471.5           60.0       19
Project Man&nVement              3176.4      5132.8     6309.2        639.2     952.6   1591.8            61.8        0
tat BASELINE COSTS              486631.4   418059.7  904691.0        96637.7  76674.7  173312.5            44.2      100
Physical Contingencies          28867.8    32047.9    60915.8        5530.2    6139.4   11669.7           52.6        6
Price Contingencies             104891.7    88232.7   193124.4       2690.0    8358.2   11048.2           75.7        6
............................ :...................................   ...................
tal PROJECTS COSTS              620390.9  538340.3  1158731.2       104858.0  91172.4  196030.3            U6.5      113
......................................................................................................................
tues Scled by 1000.0 - 4/5/1991 10:29
.



AMNEX 2
-63 -                                           Table 2
CHtNA
HENAN ACRICULTURAL OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
;                          Swmery :.-counts Cost Sumery
Yuan                                  $US                               X Total
.. ... ...................    ..............................X% Foreign          Bass
Locat    Foreign       Total         LocaL   Foreign      TotaL      Exchange       Costs
................................. ............................... ......................
INVESTMENT COSTS
,.................
nd Acquistion                   27251.4         0.0    27251.4        5220.6       0.0    5220.6             0.0        3.0
vil Works
Works                         163679.3   120678.8   284358.1        32684.8   21789.9   54474.7            42.4       31.4
suiLdfngs                      32373.6    3580s.2    68180.7         6530.7    6530.7   13061.4            52.5         7.5
.... ..... ...... . ....... .... .............................. .....................
*tal                           1960S4.9   156484.0   352538.9        39215.6   28320.6   67536.2            44.4       39.0
B reeding Stock                  9298.8    15425.8    247n4.6         1894.6    2841.9    4736.5            62.4        2.7
MaterfaLs                      81156.2    59835.5   14091.7         16205.9   10804.0   27009.9            42.4        15.6
Fertftfzer                      2488.3    24766.8    27255.1          522.1    46U9.1    5221.3            90.9        3.0
Pesticides                      1302.1    12960.1    14262.1          273.2    2459.0    2732.2            90.9         1.6
Manuro                          5004.8         0.0     5004.8         958.8        0.0     958.8            0.0         0.6
=*.6e*@v^.@*o ..................... .....................    ........................................ ......................
TotaL                            99250.2   11298U.1   212238.3        19854.7   20804.0   40658.7            53.2       23.5
~Zi-pmmnt
Livestock Equipment             8476.9     7670.3    16147.2         1701.3    1392.0    3093.3            47.5         1.8
Research Equlpmunt               989.2     1641.0      2630.3         201.6     302.3      503.9           62.4        0.3
Office Equipment                5994.8     6629.3    12624.6         1209.3    1209.3    2418.5            52.5         1.4
AgricuLture Equipment           2734.S     3696.3      6430.8         554.4     677.6    1232.0            57.5        0.7
Aquaculture Equipment           3286.7     3634.9      5921.6         663.0     663.0    1326.0            52.5        0.1
Processing Equfpment           16068.4    71082.3    87150.8         3339.1   13356.4   16695.5            81.6        9.d
Irrigatfon Equipment          22565.1    20418.1    42983.2          4528.9    3705.5    S234.3            47.5        4.1
-.;. _   .................. . . . iz;   .    . . .  ;:. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...
TotaL                            60115.7   1147 7.8   174888.4        12197.5   21306.0   33503.5            65.6       19.3
rucks & UtiLity VehicLes
Trucks                          m7.9    7Mn3.3         8499.2         162.8    1465.4    1628.2            90.9        0.9
UtiLity VehicLes                 232.2     2311.2      2543.4          48.7     438.5      487.2           90.9        0.3
.e*@@e^e^@** ............... ....................................    ..............................  .....................
TotaL                             1008.1    10034.5    11042.6          211.5    1903.9    2115.4            90.9        1.Z
abor
. UnskfiLed Labor                31780.4         0.0    31780.4        6088.2        0.0    608U.2             0.0        3.5
2. Management                     20725.9     9823.5    30549.3         4096.7    1735.7    5852.4            32.2         3.4
...............    ................                                 - -.-.-....'--'--''''''''.............. '''''''''''
Total                            5Z506.3     9823.5    62329.8        10184.9    1755.7   11940.6            15.8        6.9
.rking Capital                   41004.0         0.0    41004.0        7s55.2       0.0    7855.2             0.0        4.5
* rainlng
1. Local Training                  4723.8     3482.8      8206.6         943.3     628.9    1572.2            42.4        0.
2. tnternational Trarnfng            61.0      1281.5     1342.5          12.9      244.3     257.2           95.5         0.
**.@^@^^w^66** ..................... .............................................................   ......................
-Totat                             4784.3     4764.3      9549.1         956.2     an.2    1829.3             49.9         1.1
TechnicaL Assistance                 35.6       747.0      782.6           7.5      142.4     149.9           95.5         0.1
Others
1. Oesfgn                          1138.9      U944.9     4077.8         234.4     546.8      781.2           72.1        0
2. Supervision                      867.1       639.3     1506.3        `173.1      115.4     288.6           42.4        0
3. Insurance                       1362.7      4521.3     5884.0         281.8      845.4   112t.2            76.8         0
4. MiscLLous                       1251.8       346.1     1597.9         244.9       61.2     306.1           21.7         0
~~~~......................    ........... ...................   .......:.... ........
sub Totrt                             4620.4      8445.5    1366.0          934.2    1568.9   2ss.t.             64.6         1.4
Total UAELINI COSTS                 486631.4   418059.7  904691.0         96637.?'  7674.?  173312.              44.2       100
Physct Continlgences              28867.8    32047.9    60915.8         5530.2    6139.4   11669.7            52.6         6
Price Contingenctes              104891.?    88232.7   193124.4         2690.0    835.2   11048.2            75.r         6
0 @9e..... Z ............ @*0 ...... Z.@@w^... .........    .............. @***Z@e**e................   .......................  w ... *Z@...w
l  PROJECTS COSTS                620390.9   538340.3  1158731.2        104858.0   91172.4  196030.3            46.5       113.1
. 04. 00...*...                    ...      ..... ........................... ..............  .......................... **..........................
tues Scated by 1000.0 *   4/5/19"1  10t41



Mets MUMSI SU  Ag poetag 0-Um
9Lnn  *5111   06t11   5 66            5195 -I    0Stw                     0 S00    5SS21   r150u   rs    Sl9ffl  ro-s  £0U                                                      323 i'J4
t1  S' S- @-                                                                                                  re          O-          Ole
X    0                   .............................................................................................................I ......................................
) _.4                      I-5U tr        u          m900      rissi      lrtis        YSS?9        ssei       viso       2ri6l10      IfPLiI    tJ.L2         COWS        Z-61191A                 USl4U3    0IM
.0                     91LUS       £ISI        O-SK        f-atn       S9L1         -2s6I      Vt1101      SOS1       t9L14       IV SS        WMt22        WLISI      VUIn                    1J     113  W'1S10
|EI S*60 I    Ila"    1-6S09                               r S-  c    rout         lo6m         I911 09v   SYIM   1- O1f S-SU2"                FL'0sU       rI09ssz     IE9LS                    UsSm             laws
................................................................ .................................................................................................. 
a's         tS1        Ole          Ol e                   *O5          g.19        re .         5  .'  Oe              *-          *-r         5l                              1     hlI    9
SO          t9L112      VISU        55§        55          55           S-LI       ILS    ,0               50          55          55 S-  *
................................................................I. ................................................................................
Ole         1S652       0           5           re         Ole         5s
55          4-L21ZU                *-O  5      55          5-           S-Ll    t-L61    55                56@         50X         55           55@                        bU  161 *
5L99        552h1       55Ut       I-St        552^        0-0         0-0         5g          0-SU        0S          5-St        55u        r*     s                      WI2luW I 
1.669  stieS  s*ioit  still    sw          se~        ~~~ ss       S t          5 rell                 Ole1        5.$W        #elf                           OW      6 51Wli
1012       *-2ttl       50         I-UI          -201      0-0         0-0         SLI         rSUS        0-U1t       StS          rIS        ISnsI                    ~
0012        Ole         S           OlGtl       Ole        Ole    0-      0        a'21        5           55           55 O       £ 11r        A   t                             SII3  
58@    £S9              L-L S    55            05          5@           99111   55             55@         6.0         55@          *-          52511                                ,6.S
*g  FIL     2~051      50          0.6         65          £4119re  Ole                          91511     a's          9161        £555                                 56      -1
............................................................................................................................ ........
Ol          55@         O's         gg          Ole        0l           VS          Ole         SS         a's W-#                  Ole         Ole                  Ws hP-g   US5563JJI  t
06          OS           @ Ol eS r5 e16G1 se                                                   rS          re          Ole          re          Ole                 *t'm   3sJd  !
^0            *-~~~,61    slim         S-gKI      I'M         -@u         0-          r- tl         li        rSu         rot         r0          61111 2-u                                         "S"A
..................................................................................................................................................
|            o o         . |         -           .62Z   rMt              of          Ole         *-m    rSu   sls   rMS -1.  -X9M   Ir'                                             _*1^"l
0l          008         5§         5*-         *-          55           e.g1    55             5-          50           5-g         55@         56                  is@S5 Lie pIV *
Oo          el            IK         1 v       Oe          *            Ole         orz        Ole         SC           Oe    o       *em   * la                                 1111pe  s%
00          *-5         2-1U    55              55         55           0.0        VS@    55               55           55@         55          55@                       -          "IllS 1
05@         -15£        092    0-               5.5        55           00@         55@        55          55           55          55          55                     _'2dq 9318 .
Ole         119         II         el*         *1          Ol           IPVt       Ol          Oe          Ole         Ol           Ol          sl t                                 PM,,-!
0-SSU    V9SI    S-UI    2-SU 2   2UlS K                       19-Q   0-0           1-921    99sl2   0-0                0-0         V191   V9-1                                      531W
..................................................................................................................................................
VOSl        SA5l        Ol          VOleI      re1         00e                                 el0          Ol0        a's          5l5         55@                                    15   5 11-S
0'5         55          0.0        00          165         91.001       S0          95         55          5-0          50          55          55                              Sgt1SIlSfl
1-0        05          0.0         9-695         -09       0-9532    VS            55*         5-5         VS@          50         55@         es                              juh,,,in   -
fLi         161         11L1 s        19SS52    2-2         @-0        5-e          I-UI       9922        0-0          5-0         5*99        9)13                             '*311      .2
2rf99 0-                  VS       Ole          0-5 *        S          VS          Sl Is VS                                        5           Se          @        -        3  -J  .1
OtOl        flu          961 UI    re          0a's         0-0 le                  6952        FlOR    W9131    121S 2             511515 SlII                                       P3934P3
,....... .......... ; ......... .......;.. ........ ..................... ............................................................................I
I            0~6~2        gg          9112       0*5         Ole         5.5         O*91i        SOm        re5          5*5m        55gi       93"*         55U                            wa3       j  .
00@         5.5        5*-         5.5         55          55§         0.0         3-952        2-2Oi    V-992          S-2UIl    *-. SIII                                            IN id
* 911       ole        5.5         Ole         Ol          Ole         9999m         6#        re09        0*-                      SIC         re                  WANNI9  3133 31A9 -1        'I
pS       O's zb        l I t      l  e   1   r            Ure                             U     3Ole  el   * _            U      r#          Ole W                  _
X d.a~                                          sae-                                             emz                                               K
ma
_e fi      SIOe lir  Ole       I's         Oln



-  s _ _ s _ _ s
N ^ 2 IU199191  19WUZzUS     5X   SA9           991        VtUI9   t219S6191    196       1111      911       199        10152  t11          9*1              lU
;;is E "          9St   so9           rsot      rt6g       rtK       2-Uo      ro         os        rt2       es US       s r6s              o-$s                  1
e 169os261.13  S-9911    £*slst   1-9114           V66911    I|s £111    19       0 9119    9SS11 1    64111      rt9L9    9*1*1                 91     1139  t
.........................................................................................................................................
9'911609   1.121    6631      L1SL91   19111       10691p    91121    691ttv      elm6      f9*141    lA91       Olga&    V95K               splammo-         2
91164096            *-111    S50*  r**t   KoM  t'rss2        r0tn1    9t11    291             9*w2    *062       set    rLt                      Sim   no-*   aAq
6*9611    0`        e 19       . t62    9.0£    S111         999*      *9!       1941       9* *-61             5*         **                        U      1 Ole III
p9991    50         3111      91162    £01                   0                   60         09--2  *-S00         569       re                        WADI"Mil It
3L*5K      56    9  r ice     Iv         19*01     0931t      650      0 6       0  60      SO        0-0        6.6        660                        0= L       It
I9u       1l0       Vats    g00         r6z        0le       Ole       Ole      *Ol         Ole       Oes *-               *s                        mnV    91    g
91211     SItM      III       Ole       Ie         re        Is         I#       Ole        Oe t5" 1  e                    Ol es  e   o  rop                       I
52911S   9919       ro2 6-6                       t- 6.9     0.92      66        00@        00        *-UU       *6        66fqi   a-a
................................................. .......................................I ...........................................
S09061    t0.6      Ole sn1             O9le       Ole       Ole       Ole       6le 9      696       Se r2                Ole                    93   b. t1
9 S2t    V11012    '6         sl         6.0a rts2            991      re        re         Ole       CIII       Ole       Ole                             PM1*W It
o 6*11   ole        00m       06  0zt     5 * b    o0n0t    o65tt    *-ZS        0- 0b      o-02       6 06 6o    rinUi ia  1Iw   1
*             12~~~~9011ze    *1191    0199  re99      991        Ole9      VW        *191w    all"        SW5       slat      6111       OS                               -W141
....................................................................................................................................................
46 9191* *I'0       a'        1le        60        Ole       ,9*       60         I'm£                 4 Sf* 94 ^ 6a       6s t2                             _;
ib196l9   99        9         0.6       eUs       ra         Oe        Is          o        re        se        Oe         rs          2-5"  *l -1
I            t 2sell~ 5.5se       928       1129        916 S ~96 I*                 O*        O*6       e* n*                6.        6.                smg0  aal3umJd9s W     ZZ @    Z 
912tt69    t.sS    ale"       ee           9trut             r            o        19       1 S9U    sla         0l        Oe               am86.4111.*
90199   00          290       *-96      r.         99W       9.5 6.               99        *' at               66z        06 UTs  rI                        3 rs9o
...................................................................................................................................................I
29191    1.11       0.6e o      6        50        O.le       50       Ole       *5                   SIM1111     6e                                 V    *A- 'I
?'"'Ae   ee1        ssz22    elm OZ 2slt    tst 6e                      reK      oO2        oosi      00         00II      *0                          IZ It
t 129    ot    -f6e          O'02    I        -661   I  2M Z'i9t    eli     fLIn       flo       ElZw  i;  *111                                       10* 0* _1111
l-0.               @6        IS         569       Ole       Ole        0e       00         SO0e 00              rf        re * l       *       P   3 -11uS    1 I
a zs21 t   6I1 S    |99       6ILV       11116    9100       Ol  5 e   Oe        Ole        Oe        Ol         al        O'                vAd6  049a    I  *wJ    t
o-ess     Olet      II        al         Ol *e     Ole       Ol        s  @e      ri        Ol        r s        Ol *e     re               awp6  SA1       Oif w "
912212  6611        s*6        6        5.5       e*0        0.0       e*s        0         *.4       *.l       *.         es                     W
.............................................                                  ..
"OS       WO         les   l             r         re        Oe        Os          le       0         Oe         I*        Oe                              AM  I S
V29291   0le        Ole       W         0le        .e0       II        I**I       .a0       Ole       Ole       re         5o                         -imim13s3  1
11ss1z2  Ole        0.0       b0        Ole       Ole        re        a's*      Ole        Ole       *.*       9.9       5el                           z|gfaa  It
tl6"t  WM 66        0. 0-     *g          le       0.0e      Ole       Ole       *1*        r$        9*gt       9,        Ol                          I *t93 1   1
9*9lS91   g.,       g.g   o~g            *.g       *.*       9.       *O l       *Ol       *O l*                 9-5       *.  O le                             .1 W   -   It
................................... .........................................................
112 e   1e r0.     t19n         9 l ,U    -1969m   V9669     SIM n          6I9  911,9 141411    *r              I.S1U       r                         "     l   t
191rAz2 eo'         1919  ZISC1         1-9       9s9sz      %*t-mt   ostt19    %.6w        SU111t *o           *ol       *e'                              399  Is
3919 11*13 Is
*1tS2*2   6-0      t1-02       91929    Ole        flow9     Ole       Ol                          lt **4  rl   41-1       re                     W3ilsg3 wpm  IV
1,0el        U            *              aN18        Uid4       A          *        All       All    bule                  s - m
_mamuu  -w1PI3           d 11LImdd  qmn  U3-U   19dISPEiM  *N-1-4  es1uIdiuW        *     lI         .5a.3m      .319541
1(e151                         NWid               a-iEiX   *,m_s    at3n4  _ l6            imo       -1lion
pmu.w  ab.1wA P431          Aims
uvuui 011111011VUUDIU TVUweIn



MErM I 
amonry Ampulet bi Veew
TOWeS. InKldt et ui lelsuicI Totals ImlmdSiru t l_ignlm
Yuen
...............................................................................................................................    ...................................................................
tm         92         931n4      949        951ff l      otel         "In2       92nn       gu4        9415         /9       Tota
mat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
1. 11MES1 ENT
..................
a. Wi kqhsIt1im                     17543.1     459.5       359.9      45.9       23.    322.              3035.9    M73.S         567.9         .4      451.0  ss 7.
B. Civil _,t"
5.   t1262.9   917S.9    7219.6                                       6.6   299.2   307.6              2101.7   1543.3    11716.3   166.1    4765.2   64015.6
2. Bitdl                         3173.2   32545.6    12.A              6.0        6.0    6369.4         6711.6    5477.4       296.0         6.0        6.6    14295.6
...................................................................    .............................................................................. i............... ..................... ... ...........................
ma-loses                            557246.   124441.4    GU2.          69.6   29110.2  41447.6           M27 .s    293.7   53 .1              9.t      4765.2   7678.6
C. Mtorits
1. Ur..1   sunt                   91.2    129.S    155.S               6.6        0.0    3649.2         1726.6     1 .9   1M.3               6.6        5.6    5243.6
2. 66twbala                      4956.4    4M7 .1    4567.4   2032.5   -f69.0   161558.7                6735.9     601.        737.5      441.1      154.9   36324.6
3. Fertlilu                       15492.9   162.1         7.7          6.6        0.0   33036.6         2746.5     217.7        129.6        6.6         .0     S67.6
4. ic tlr                          570.6      7620.3     5733.2    *    .0        6.0    17326.1         15.6       5n.         265.1        6.6        6.6    2960.9
S.    e                             155.9    2022.6      1.6         76.6         6.      4327.6          326.3      34.        26.1       119.03       6.6     IU0.6
...................................................................   ............................................................................................. ................................
ll-Volt d                             L6.5   86515.5    59642.9    2947.          969.6  266226.3          15657.5   14156.       9M.7       4174.4    5546.9   4536.5
*. _
5. iutmk           _75.9                      4. 4.     6   6a3.6      *.6        *.0    21S5.2         531.       1465.4    1l1U.4 *.6                6.6 3*n7.6
2. _.ee b i;                      21E5.S      2 1.1        76.3       79.5       I2.5     353.9          487.4       43.9       12.S        12.7       13.1      569.6
3: 66k. E _t                      3454.1    51 .3        5116.7        6.6        6.     56"39.2         611.0    199.2         111.6        6.6        6.      216.5
4. A01t1 _                         156.6      654.2         6.6        L.O        6.      632.2          240.7      1152.9        6.6        6.6        6.6    1419.6
S.      two                       Z 9 29.    250.3       4619.2        6.6        6.6     "33.4          515.9      33.4    "4.              0.0 6.6    153.6
6. rmen  h      Ie               2116.9    95262            6.6        6.6        *.6  5U213.5          36.3      5539.S          0.0        6.6        6.6    19230.6
7. frigiuot, ESqet               17665.2    s559.6    "      A27   14U19.9    4205.1    S6470.0         u17.6       Ms.        sm.s       1747.7      Mi.7      9476.7
............................................. . ................................................   .................... .................................. ................... .............  I
ma-Total                            5763.6 57 4119.6   229.4    16596.4           67.S   22729.5          111.    21973.2         3753.0    176.4       U14.6   36061.5
E. t * utiliq 4        klk V&
1. Tre"                           3123.      6249.4    IS4.S         145.0        6.6    16119.2         SS2.S       WA1.1      2S2.2       23.s        6.      1676.4
2. Uti9t1t %bid"                    256.      940.7       154.5        6.6        0.6     3U13.0         309.4      t55.2       25.2         *.9        9.       552.6
............................................... ...................    .... :.........................................................................................l  
ma-Tota                              S215.8     790.2         94A.      145.         *.     54242.2         921.9      129.4        7.4        23.5        L.6    2432.2
1. _tim atl_S Sb                  64.2    16945.4    1 .S           429.3      205.A   3999             5S22.S     5655.6    173.6        n1.7        425.6    6536.2
2.   _    t^1154.6                           95.7 1        42.5     S6.        273.3    37216.3         55S.3    1576.2        53A2.6       1.4       435.8    6250.6
......... ......................- ................................................   ......................................... ..... ...... .................................
ma-U"                                590.2    2 1.5         956.     511444       5S39.9   7MS.2           3471.6    3411.2       3125.6     12.3        55.6    52794.2
C MwU    ewiat                       31772       6U.8       54.9          L.         0.    47W9.9          S .3    5416.9    546.5              6.6        6.6   6545.0
I. IonS  fre|lig                  43a3j      4M5.0        M53.3      373.4      292.7  3101.2            m.9        724.1       52.3         6.3       46.6    t720.3
2. lmte io"  Trlak.               5554.1         6.6 *.6               6.6        6.      t554.1         27.9         o.o         6.6        6.6        0.0      274.9
1110Tea                                56..    435.           M53.3     373.4      292.7    502.3          iO.6        724.5       523.3 i.3              40.      2151.2
1.  dikl. Awles                         .        261.2         6.6         0 .       0.6      664.3         5.2         43.9        6.0        .0.        6.6       154.5
J.  _                                                                                                               _                                                     -
5.               ,42.9                         415.5                    .6          6                        .
t.                _wt932.2                       4.2        6.0        0.6        0.0      1616.4         164.9    5t6.           0.2        6.0        9.0      313.0 
2. ~~~~                   5765.6~~IM  15544.5      $    0.0  6       .0  0.6      726.           305.5      935.9        6.6        6.6        6.6    5237.4la    4
4 lzl .... I..s1.----------SOeS  27* 
3. looms"                  W~~89.4    764.2      ugo.s       5).?        3.6     195.4           155.6      55.5        u.S         2.2        L.S      335.3
*Apita                                7666.5     765.2       296.1       53.7        3.0    15361.5        t39.7    523.5           4.5         2.2                2
total 166T  T5            ~~~356617.2   392616.   255156.3   5246323     4375121.                4626.7   6596.    32994    26035               45.   1630.
._.             _.................................. 
66          - -- Stat   by  6 _*z 36 ---                             -



ANNEX 2
-67-                                           Table 4.2
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yuan
Project Componmnts by Year
Base Costs                                   Total
.. .............................................................................
91/92      92/93      93/94      94/95      95/96    Yuan      MS
A. Irrigation & Drainage
1. YR Diversion Schemes           91544.5    73770.1    69428.1    52045.6    19974.8  306763.4   58766.9
2. Drainage & WUttl                6750.0     4769.2    4652.5    4617.7    2357.    23147.1          4434.3
3. River Regulation               17472.6    10634.6        0.0        0.0         0.0    28107.2    5384.5
4. Groundwater Dov.               20542.1    13092.4   13026.5    12958.5    6490.9   66110.5   12664.8
S. Qucun Storage & Irrig.          5423.2    5571.1    5028.8   10688.0    6419.0   33160.1    6352.5
6. Irrigatfon Support              1053.5      735.7       196.9      107.3      102.1     2195.5      420.6
............................ ......................................................  
Sub-total                          142785.8   108S73.1   92332.9   80417.1   35374.6   459483.4   18023.6
S. Agriculture & Forestry
1. Seed                            8133.4    6712.8         0.0        0.0        0.0    14846.1    2844.1
2. Agric Inputs                   197.8    17837.0        1226.8       0.0         0.0   38839.6   h7'40.5
3. Tunnel Greenhouses              1818.4     1888.3       73.1        0.0         0.0     3779.8      724.1
4. Orchards & Tree                13955.3     $715.7    6031.2    5466.1           0.0    34168.3    654S.6
S. Agric Support                   4025.3    1033.3       333.5      333.5       333.5     6059.1    1160.7
6. Res.&Trafning                   1849.7     1200.8      472.3       272.6      132.8    3928.3       752.5
i;...  ..... i;............... ...................................................   o.  
Sub-total                           49557.9   37387.9    8136.3    6072.3          466.3   101621.1    19467.7
C. Livostock Development
1. Sheep & Goat Prod.              4829.7     4829.7    3890.2         0.0         0.0    13549.5    259S.7
2. Beef Cattle                     7717.2     7717.2    7717.2          0.0        0.0    23151.5    4435.2
3. AlfaLfa Prod.                   3495.4    3495.4    3495.4           0.0        0.0    10486.3    2008.9
4. Pig Operation HHs                343.6      484.6      373.2        0.0         0.0     1201.5      230.2
S. Coamrcalt Pig Farms             8822.0     8822.0    8822.0         0.0         0.0    26466.0    5070.1
6. Broiler Prod. HHx               3919.1     3919.1     3919.1         0.0        0.0    11757.4    2252.4
7. Broller ProceIng                7238.8     4752.8    4752.8          0.0        0.0    16744.4    3207.7
8. Resoarch & training              915.7      330.2      250.6        19.5       13.9     1529.9      293.1
;_ .........................................
Sub-total                           3 781.5    34351.1   33220.6         19.5       13.9  104886.4   20093.2
0. Aquaculture Development
1. Jiazou Municipality             5178.1     6350.6     642.0         0.0        0.0    17955.6    3439.8
2. Puyang Municipality             4067.5     1836.8      211.6         0.0       0.0      6116.0     1171.6
3. Shangqui Prefecture             5414.3     2194.3     232.5         0.0         0.0     9841.1    188S.3
4. Xfnxiang Municlpattty           7148.8    5056.2    4332.1           0.0        0.0    16537.1    3168.0
i.*.*........  . .........  * .........  ..   .......................
Sub-total                           21808.7   15437.9   13203.2          0.0         0.0    50449.8    96.7
E. Agroindustry
1. Fructose Plant                 11086.6   20412.5         0.0        0.0        0.0   31499.1    6034.3
2. Plant Growth Hormone           10808.8   18429.3         0.0        0.0        0.0   29238.1    5601.2
3. PopermilLs                     41289.9   64257.6       789.?         0.0        0.0   106337.3   20371.1
4. Coldstores                      8738.9    3853.8        273.8       0.0         0.0    12866.5    2464.9
. .... .  ...... *.* v. ......................................
Sub-total                           71924.3  106953.2    1063.6           0.0        0.0   179941.0   34471.5
f. Project Manangmment               6187.2     1409.4      266.9      251.2       194.5    8309.2    1591.8
w     .*  ..  ........................................
Total BASELINE COSTS               32945.3  304112.5  148223.9   86760.0   36049.2  904691.0  173312.5
Physical Contingenfes            20465.5   22240.3      9417AS    6224.1    2568.5    60915.8    11669.7
Price Contingonieso              35876.4    65663.6   43916.9   31848.2    15819.4   193124.4   11048.2
.........  . ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                385887.2  392016.4  201558.3  124032.3   54437.1  1158731.2  196030.3
Taxes                                0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Forefgn Exchango                172078.7  216020.7   8109.6   48313.3   20834.0  538340.3   91172.4
V...a. Scal.                             . b. 1000.0....................... 4.5/1991  10:42........................
Votu" tSteld by 1000.0 4/5/199l 10:42



ANNEX 2
- 68 -                                  Table 4.3
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL OEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Yuan
SMu, ry Accowits by Year
Bass Costs                                  Foreign Exchange
91/92     92/93      93/94     94/95      9f/6      Total          X    Amowt
INVESTNE.iIT COSTS
.................
Land Acquisition              15567.!    3828.5    2808.5    3036.0    2010.9   27251.4            0.0       0.0
Civil Works
1. Works                      96357.3   69s33.2   5119.3   45985.4   19282.9  284358.1             42.4  120678.8
2. Sufidings                  32811.3   2s819.8    9549.7         0.0        0.0   68180.7         52.5   35805.2
b-totat                        131168.6   95353.0   60749.0   45985.4   19282.9  352538.9           44.4  156484.0
Materiats
1. Breeding Stock              8433.0    8427.6    7864.0         0.0       0.0   247n4.6          62.4   15425.8
2. Materials                  42661.8   37859.8   33554.5   20383.1    6532.5  140991.7            42.4   59835.5
3. Fertilizer                  13383.4   13282.0      589.7       0.0        0.0   27255.1         90.9   24766.8
4. Pestiefdes                  7403.6    5566.1    1292.5         0.0        0.0   14262.1         90.9   12960.1
S. Manure                       1603.2    1603.2    1274.5      524.0        0.0    5004.8         :0.0       o.o
totat                        73484.9   66738.6   44s57.1   20907.1    6532.5  212238.3            53.2  112988.1
Equipment
1. Livestock Equipment         6428.3    4861.5..  4857.4         0.0       0.0   16147.2          47.5    7670.3
2. Research Equipment          2272.1      197.6       54.2      53.2       53.2    2630.3         62.4    1641.0
3. Office equipnent            2848.2    8986.7       789.7       0.0        0.0   12624.6         52.5    6629.8
4. Agriculture Equfpment        1243.5    5187.3       0.0        0.0       0.0    6430.8          57.5    3696.3
S. Aquaculture equipmnt        2386.2    1635.0    2900.4        .0.0       0.0    6921.6          52.5.   3634.9
6. Processing Equipment        17882.4   69268.4       0.0        0.0       0.0   87150.8          81.6   71082.3
7. irrigation Equipment       14436.7    8981.1    7896.8    7508.2    4160.4   42983.2.           47.5   20418.1
Sub-total                        47497.3   99117.6   16498.5    7561.4    4213.6  174888.4           65.6  114772.8
E. Trucks & Utility Vehicles
1. Trucks                      2575.6    4729.7    1095.3        96.6       0.0    8499.2         9.9       m.3
2. Utility Vehictes           1in.9        712.0      109.5       0.0       0.0    2543.4         90.9    2311.2
Sub-total                         4297.5    5441.6    1204.9        98.6       0.0   11042.6 .       90.9   10034.5
F. Labor
1. Unskilled Labor             7807.0    9112.0    S303.3    4688.4    1869.7   31780.4            0.0        0.0
2. Maes nt                    10026.3    7772.0    6602.7    4208.6    1939.7   30549.3 .          32.2    9823.5
IL-totsl                        17833.3   16884.0   14906.0    8897.0    3809.4   62329.8           15.8    9823.5
Working Capital              2n8O.9    7022.8    670.3           0.0       0.0   41004.0           0.0       0.0
Training
1. Local TraIning              3769.7    3413.2      561.1      264.9     197.7    8206.6         42.4    3482.8
2. Internatial. Training       1342.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0    1342.5          95.5    1281.5
dtotal                          5 112.2    3413.2     561.1      264.9      197.7    9549.1.       49.9    4764.3
Technical Atssstenco           565.1      217.5       0.0        0.0       0.0      782.6         95.5     747.0
Others
1. Oesfgn                      3700.6      377.2       0.0        0.0       0.0    4077.8         72.1     238.9
2. supervision                  805.3      701.0       0.0        0.0       0.0    1506.3          42.4     639.3
3. Insurance                    147n.5    4411.5       0.0        0.0       0.0    5884.0          76.8    4521.3
4. isctlleu                     759.7 r    60.9       220.6       9.7       2.0    1597.9          21.7     36. 1
Sub-total                         6738.0    6095.6      220.6        9.7       2.0   13066.0         64.6    844S.5
Total SASCLINE COSTS            329545.3  30412.5  148223.9   86760.0 . 36049.2  90491.0             46.2  418059.7
Physical Contingencies        20U5.5   22240.3    9417.5    6224.1    25611.    60915.8           52.6   32047.9
PrIce Contingencies           35876.4   65663.6   43916.9   31848.2   15819.4  193124.4            457   88232.7
Total PROJECT COSTS             385887.2  392016.4  Z01558.3  124832.3   54437.1 1158731.            46.5  538340.3
Taxes                             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange             1nO78.7  216020.7   8193.6   48313.3   20834.0  538340.3             100.0  538340.3
..........................................................................................................................
V tues seated by 1000.0 4/ n 91l 10s40



INEIWNIS ANIMIliRAL OEVWLOPE 01CT
Projects C - _its by Tar
Totals Intuelolm Conttlmne                                              TotalsIt 0Ihd1nI  CUeirJ tl_
........... .................................                           ...................................................................
97n2       9V93       93WS       949         "5/96      Total         9192       921         9          94/f       9S/46      Total
A. Ivulgtlen S Onlnag
1.    Slwrslen Schewa           10739.7   94120.2   9438.6    74m.2   3009.2  401216.0                  19075.S    150.L   1S452.0   12078.4    475.S   67232.2
2. Onlreg * Wills                 745.7    6112.2    6339.7    6599.3    3517.9   30514.8                1405.S     1028.1      1037.9    1066.0       560.6    5091.0
3. liwvr  *egAtthn               20t40.9   139.3            ^.0        0.0         0.0   34805.2         3686.5     2349.3         0.0        0.0        0.0    6035.8
4. sreuamter c tS.               24515.2    17048.0    75.1    18164.0    9923.9   m89.2                 4336.4     2867.4    2956.2    3047.0        1501.6   147M8.7
5. Gum  Sorsa   8 Irrig.          6542.9    7329.6    7037.1    15597.8    9781.4   462.7                1157.4     1232.5    1152.0    2519.4        1558.9    7620.5
6. Irrltlai upwt                  1209.3      916.4      262.3       151.4      151.3    2690.7          213.9      15f.l       42.9        24.5       24.1      459.5
...................................................................     ................................................................................................ .................................
S1kr-ttak                           W11193.8  139493.7  126015.8   11S919.7   5364.6  603927.6             29875.3   2342.S    20641.0  !lIM.2    8520.7  101234.6
3. Aslraitus A fUestry
1. Soak                           932.9    8850.7           0.0        *.0        0.0   18243.6          1461.S     1488.7        0.0        0.0         0.0     3150.2
2. Agre lqupts                   22593.0   22497.3    1647.0           0.0        0.0   47M37.3          4049.s     3784.0       269.6        0.0        0.0    8103.1
3. TOWN Greu*uus"                 2314.0      2372.9       93.4        0.0         0.0    4567.3          371.6      399.1        1S.3        0.0        0.0      7m.0
4. orchwdg Al Tree                1067.9   1084.5    a022.9         7637.S         0.0   42622.9         2842.2     1832.4      1313.4    1233.7         0.0     7221.7
S. Agice Sort                     4749.7    0137.9        429.2      40.7        473.2    7410.7          840.2      220.0        70.3       72.8       75.4     1278.6
6. leejIraining                   2132.3    1497.9        618.3      374.3       192.4    4815.2          377.2      251.9       101.2       60.5       30.7      021.5
...................................................................     ................................................................................................ ............................................... 
0110- t                            57336.7   4721.2    10810.9        162.S       648.6  124696.9         10142.2    7976.1      1769.8     1366.9       106.1   21361.1
C. Liwesteck 0svtd
1.  _he  A £   ett od.            5          6048.S    513i.1          0.0        0.0   16781.1           982.0     1017.3      848.2         0.0        0.0     2117.S
2.. "d   Cattle                    896.6    9695.2   10319.8            0.0        0.0   23913.7         1574.1     1630.7    1689.4          0.0        0.0     414Z.2
3. iAlflfa PrOL                   48.S    4384.8          667.2        6.0         0.0    13076.5         711.9       37.s       764.1        0.0        0.0     2213.4
4. PIg qratian  _                  397.6       610.9      st00.9       0.0         O.0    1509.4           70.3      102.8        82.0        0.0        0.0      25S.I
S. C_m ial Pig Fe_               109.9    116.8   11709.S              0.0         0.0    32807.2        1786.0    1850.3       1916.9        0.0        0.0    SS53.2
6. gaMIew  Prod.oft               41.0        480.2    S173.3          0.0         0.0    14494.2         789.1      817.s       846.9        0.0        0.0    2453.4
7. Stllr Pr       fele               2.1    6137.1    6532.S           0.0         0.0   212S1.6         151.l*    1032.2    1069.4          0.0        0.0    3619.7
S. Resach I Traislan               106O.7      41S.       334.S        26.S       19.5    1843.7          188.9       69.9        54.6        4.3        3.1      320.9
...................................................................     ................................................................................................. ............... ............................  
sfib-Tau                             4379.6   43152.9       4415.         26.5       19.5  130697.3        7T2.3        256.2      72i.6         4.3        3.1   221S7.S
.Apmatue 5tl_tep
1. Jlaaula e ialp lltv            6W7.1       8310.1       52.S.       0.0         0.0   25449.7         1094.4     1397.7    1445.6          0.0        0.0    3957.7
2. Pup   ISmcipmlIty              4843.7    239.1         297.7        0.0         0.0      35S9.S        840.3      403.4        48.7        0.0        0.0     1312.4
3. sb_i  Pred.ctuem               6464.5    2662.3       3104.S        0.0         0.0   12431.6         1143.5      481.4      s50.2         0.0        0.0    2133.2
4. Xialu  amiplptty               SH41.4     6595.0    4034.6          0.0        0.0    21171.1        1510.9     1109.3       967.9        0.0        0.0 3o m.0
...... ........  ...................................................................................... ...... .............................................................
ar-Toal,                             2607.1    2014.S           .3         0.0        0.0   64611.9         4649.2     3391.8      3010.4        0.0        0.0   11011.4
S. oinchatry
1. Fnteme "PA.1                  1iM0.@    246.4            0.0        0.0         0.0   39665.3         2264.2    4518.T          0.0        0.0        0.0    6762.5
2. PlA   it  bar                  12760.0   24299.2         0.0        0.0         0.0    3759.2         2257.1    40a7.1          0.0        0.0        0.0    6344.1
3. twoulIs                        47440.6   8386.4       1110.7        0.0         0.0   132537.7        8427.0    14092.6       151.         0.0        0.0   22701.S
4. CoIdterrs                       9915.3     5SA.6       k'5.1         0.0        0.0   1S432.1          766A       650.8        63.0        0.0        0.0     263.7
...............-.......................................................................................    ...................................................................
SkbJr tat                            8318.9    109.6    1495.3            0.0         0.0  224694.3        14715.1    23549.2       244.9        0.0        0.0   31109.2
f. rjec   _                           m1.2'    1M7.4         37st.      353.S       267.3   10103.1         1296.8      296.3        50.6       S7.1       4S.6    116.5S
...................................................................    ....................................................... ., 
lo     08151  aITs                 38S .2   32016.4   201555.3   1243.3   54437.1  115711.2               6525.7   6S936.1    32996.4   20163.S    863.6  1900.3                                V >
.......................................... ...........................................al        5/
walam  Iutd  by  M.9 45/19R1 6:41 



-70-                          Amex 2
Teble 5
CNIII
NEUMN AGRICULTURtAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurnt of Machinery, Equipent an  Materitls
CY'000)
........................................................................................
Procuremnt Method
Project Elemnt                 *-..-        ..-     ..-                          Totat
ICP             LCB           Othor
........................................................................................
Nachinory
Construction Machinery                  2,105               0               0       2,105
Vehlets                                14,242                0              0      14,242
................. .................................................................._
Subtotel                             16,347               0               0      16,347
Equipmnt
Dieel Fngins                               27           8,335               0       8,362
Electr1c Motors                           665           2,459               0       3,124
Centriful Puwmp                           602           6,782               0       7,384
S.m lrsible Pumps                       2,678          14,623             S25      18,126
Hoists & Gates                              0           2,279              38       2,317
Electrical Equipmnt                    21,753           5,346               0      27,099
Fishery Equipmnt                          242           3,873             341       4,456
Seed Procesing Equipmnt                     0           5,676               0       5,676
Livntock Equpnmnt                       9,484           6,417               0      15,901
Offie* Equipmnt                             0           2,389              18       2,407
Resoareh & Training Equpment                0           3,252           1,073       4,325
Aroproering Equipmnt                  110,359           3,442               0     113,801
........ ....................... ..........................................
_stotal                             145,810          64,873           2,295     212,978
Naterilto
Cmnt                                   24,219               0               0      24,219
Steel                                  23,710               0               0      23,710
TfWwr                                  23,082               0               0      23,082
Fortilizers                            32,369              6e7              0      33,036
Pesticides                             14,515               0           2,822      17,337
Plasic  heot, Frm  & Trells                 0          10,475             645      11,120
Wetl Casting & Nlscelenou                   0          33,192               0      33,192
Other Materalsl                                        18,000          14,500      32,500
Fruit Tree Seedlings                        0               0          17,114      17,114
Bresding Stock                              0               0          30,908      30,908
. ...........................
htotat                              117,895          62,334         65,989      246,218
Total tO000)                       280,052         127,207         68,284      475,543
($8000)                      47,386           21,524         11,514       80,464
........................................................................................



ANNEX 2
- 71 -                         Table 6
CHINA
HRNAN AGRICULTURAL DIVZLOPNENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursment Sohedulo
Dliburement               DLsbursment
IDA          --------------------------- ----    Profile a/
FLcal year/       Somestral Cumulative Cumulatlve -----------------
Somestor         ---(USS mllion)---       0      Yr/Smester   %
1992 b/                                                   Year 1
Flrct (Jul-Doc, 91)        4          4          4       FLrst           0
Second (Jan-June, 92)      6          10         9       Second          3
1993                                                      Year 2
FLrst (Jul-Doc, 92)        3          13         12      Flrct          10
Second (Jan-June, 93)      13         26         24      Second         18
1994                                                      Year 3
First (Jul-Doc, 93)        13         39         35      Flrct          30
Second (Jan-June, 94)      11         50         46      Second         46
1995                                                      Year 4
Flrst (Jul-Dec, 94)        14         64         58      Flrst          so
Second (Jan-June, 95)      13         77         70      Second         70
1996                                                      Year 5
rlrst (Jul-Dec, 95)        9          86         78      First          78
Second (Jan-June, 96)      8          94         8S      Second         82
1997                                                      Year 6
FLrat (Jul-Dec, 96)        5          99         90      PLrst          90
Second (Jan-June, 97)      6         105         95      Second         94
1998                                                      Year 7
First (Jul-Dec, 97)        5         110        100      Flrst         100
a/ DLsbursement proftle for Chlna - All sectors
b/ Include retroactive fLnancLng of USS 9 million, to cover expeaLtures
Lncurrod betweon November 1, 1990 and not more than one year before the
slgnlng of tho Credlt Agreement.
Completion dates December 31, 1996
Cloclng dates      December 31, 1997.



ENIUAN ARICLTURAL DEVELOPNET PROJECT
Crop Area, flted nd Prodwction
............... ....................................._   _  .x................
Future Yield
Present         ........-..         . .        .
Area         Yield          WIthout project    With Project
Converted -------------------------------------------------   Increwntal
Crops           to Full              Partial               Partial       Full         Produkcticn
Irrfgation RaInfed Irrigated Iainfed Irrigated Irrigation
..............................................................................................
(Nectare)                       (tn/ha)                                  (ton)
Wbeat                    188,400        2.2       2.5         2.3       2.9          4.0          276,200
Corn                      706000        2.1       2.4        2.3        2.7          4.5          131.300
PaddV                     24,100        0.0       2.8        0.0        3.0          4.5           36,200
Swet Potato a/             6,400        2.5       3.0        2.5        3.0          4.0            8,100
Cotton                    61,400        O.S       0.6       OS         0.6          1.0           21,700
Peawts                    41,300        1.2       1.4         1.2       1.4          2.5           46,900
Sownbn                    15500         1.0       1.2         1.0       1.2          1.6            6100
REa ed                    18,400        1.0       0.0         1.2       0.0          1.7            8,800
Jute                       4,300        1.2       1.4         1.2       1.4          2.0            2,400
Lst elon                   3,500       20.0      23.0       20.0       23.0         30.0           30,300
Veetables                  7,900       19.0      22.0        19.0      22.0         30.0           64,200
...................................................... ............................................. ............................................................................... -- .. - -.------------------ ............................................ .
Present                Future
Totel Cultivated Ane  (Na)                      412.2                504.6
Total project Crop Area (N)                     282.0                282.0
Cropping Into  ity (1)                           1.67                  1.79
o/  The yfeld of sweet potato Is expressed a  'pain equivalent, a local tradition
In guicb S kg of swet potato is equivalent to 1 kg of grain.
Soures:  Annex 3 Tables 1.1 -1.7.
I!



73 -                                       Annex  3
Table 1.1
aIoIv..I.. A,  sad 71.14, *u*iuAa>
aLTA?  AA                 L    2    a    4 A         4 RA4                                                  o L   *10 t
Nai.#.4       86.   J6   .7 14.0  3.0                                                            Am 9.w Year L
pea le.l.0o.  16:.0 12 3
x,rplf*"            r.s73 3 .63 8:      r
Tos          ?2.0 Tl.o n2.o  n.r.o n2.o
war        R aSId        6.0 39.0 36.6 10.0  1.0               2.2 3.27  2.S 8.36  L&  L&  31.4  S.            6.S   213
Pts. z..1.st.d 3209.0                              3.81  2.6                                        1.      .
Irrigated           4.0 23.0 42.0 800  1o@ o                  i.e  S.0  .S    8.9 Lo  4.0 J                2
SubtseMl           86.0  85.0 84.0 83.0 36.6I.
cow       ftiRl^6d        6-.0 14.0  9.0  *.0  1.0             2.1, 3.3J  3.2  3.3  3.4                       18.0    2.3
P..., :"o"   6.0  3.0                              2.4  2.4                                         4.0    2.
eieVtoeX d          2.0  9.0 14.0 1s0  L8.0              .   6.0  8.3  4.0  4.2  4.8  J.8
SubtetI        .0o* 19.0       r..0 3 t. l.0  1.0                                        *9.0
iU         bifted
P.e" t-,lid 12.S  6.0                              LO  2.6                                          0.2    3.0
Z.-Ige~g.           6.8 10.0  1.0  6.0  C.S              6.0  3.2  8.8  4.0  *2     -  *.. 4.8
12.  I2. s .0  .0  6.0  6.S                                                         6.2
3WP07610 mah..#d       6.-3.0  1.2                          2.8a  3.   L.6                                  4.0    2.5
Poet z..vo4s%d  0s.3  06  0.3                      6      a0 6.0  6.2                              0.8    3.0
1r-.igd             0.a 4   .   2.0  2.0  2.0           3.3  6.3   .O 8.?  8.6  6.9  4.0
Subtetl        6.S  4.0  i.0  2.0  2.0  3.0                                                        6.
0W0"        atwed         r.0   7.0  7.0  4.0  1.0             0.8  0..   0.6  0.6  0.? ..S.    0.J
P.e. t,l..G%d  2.0  2.0                            0.6  0.6                                        2.0    0.o
Ir,igut.            1.0  6.0 t2.0 10.0  09.0            a.?  0.7  0.o  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.°
subtassI       9.0 10.0 28.0 16.0 17.0 19.0                                                        4.1
PM~        Rgt."fd        6.0  6.0  7.0  4.0  1.0              1.2  t.2  1.3  1.8  1.6                         9.0    1.2
Pu,st I,r-lw%_i  3.0  2.0                           1.4  1.6                                       3.0    1.a
> wWf         St o t2.0  7.0 t2.0 16.0 18.0 .S  L.1.  1.9  1.2  2.3  2.6  3.i
3ubsateG      11.0 32.0 16.0 16.0 17.0 141.0                                                       12.0
srWA       Raiif.d        3.   3.0  2.1  1.3  0.2              1.0  t.0  L.2  1.2  1.8                         3.8    1.0
Pop% ? St.."    O: 0.J  0.S                        1.2  1.,2                            t.0    1.2
teriest"       0.8  2.0  3.0  4.2  4.3              1.8  1.6  1.4  1.S  1.S  1.6  3.6
Subhtel        4.0  4.0  6.1  4.3  6.4  4.8                                                        4.0
AP1111111b) fd            2.0  1.8  1.8  1.0  0.              1.0  1.0  1.1  U.1  12  1.8                     2.0    1.0
ftru t,,la*"11
Zr.i.io.b           0.8  1.0  2.0  3.1  3$.              1.2  1.3  1.4  S.  1.6  1.7  1.7
Subtotal      2.0  2.0  2.8  3.0  3.2. 6.3
JIV        A.in#.d        0.6  0.8  O.8  0.2  0.1              1.2  1.2  1.3  1.3  I.4                         2.0      1.2
po.p trlAted"  0..  0.L             1.04 1                .4                                       0.6    1.'
1a.eg46ted          0.&.    .             .               .S  1.6  1.7  1.6  LI9  303.0            0.7      .
Subtl         0    0.?  0.9   0   S.0 U  :   1.1  1.2 27
WATUO2  ftii              0.9  0.9  1.0  0.8  0.1             20.0 20.0 .0.6   2L.0   .                    .  0.9   20.0
Pon. t?el.i.d  0.9  0.?                           2a.0 3.                                          0.9 O6.0
jbFhgut.d          0.2  L.0  1.6  2.3  2.S             3.0 3-.0 V.0 26.0  9.0 36.6 60.0
Subtetel       s.5  1.6  2.0  2.8  2.4  2LO                                                         1.
WVAmtE  AR*.f4            1.'  1.6  1.0  0.4  04.             19.0 t1.0 1.S  0.0  .0                           1.S   19.
ort teilested  0.   0.3                             U.0 2.0                                         0.'   36.0
trigahd"            0.1  0.6  1.S  1.6  1.9             24.0 36.0 20.0 W.0 36.0 36.0 ".O
Su4statl       1.6  1.6  1.6  1.9  1.9  1.9                                                         1.9
T73AL.     1r,1.40
Plop' tro-ls"i
:,rpela46
TOTAL        121.3                     t25.9
rN       1m I."6                                    .76
Plees        WAd *   .".  eg  md 5... ib-lai



-74                                                           Annex 3
Table 1.2
almA
OaU"lion AP" ud Yields SIRIOSI MgS
WEIR    J...... ..... ....                                                  PPs                              WIt    PP1. 6 
lieqfuAu TO1O            Swig. In planted Am    No 100t Isuto In Yid  TYV0JU
YVAR                   I    a    3    4    9    a          1    t    3    4    5    *    r    a    ,  Ng u.   o tZa
&T:vAtVAtI ANUt
Nalfifed      15.1 11.40  9.0  ?.1  3.3                                                          As fr Tow I
Pen t reigted  9.2  5.6  2.3
Irrigated             .3  1.1 17.0 U2.0 24.3
total         343 24.3 34.3 34.1 34.3 34.3
WUNAT       as"tfed       11.6  6.? 6r  9  5.6  3.0           3.2 325 3.  2.4  3.4                             11.6     3.4
Pads t.  aetrd 1.3  4a8  2.6                      2.5  2.6  3.?                                     7.      3.9
Irigated           115  9.0  13.4  11.5  17.0          L.7  3.6  3.0  3.1  3.7  3.9  4.0
5."tHtrt      19.0 19.0  te.s l.o  17.S 17.0          .                                            19.0
COuS       hlafd         6.0  3.4  3.6  3.0  0.6            3.1 3.111  3.2  3.31  2.4                         6.0     3.4
Part Iriated  1.4  1.2  1.0                       3.4  3.4  2.5                                     1.4     3.6
IeSfsated           3.32.   4.0  4.9  5.6               ta   3.0  3.J  4.0  4.1  4.3  4.5
ltatal         7.4  7.   7.O 6.0  5.5  5.6                                                          ?.4
PADe0      IseiIld
Pact crhgated  2.9  3.0  1.a  1.4  0.6            3.6  3.6  2.9  3.0  3.0                           3.9     3.2
liPifgatad          1.0  1.?  3.1  4.9  6.0             2.0  3.2  3.3  4.0  4.3  4.3  4.1
AtStaSt        3.9  2.0  3.1  4.5  5.5  6.0                                                         2.9
MITS POTATO CaSnfed        0.3  0.2  0.1  0.1                 3.5  2.5  2.6  3.6  L.?                           0.3     3.6
Peo  tel rcgl.d  0.2  0.1  0.1                    3.0  3.0  2.2                                     0.3     3.3
Iergated            0.3  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.3             3.3  3.3  3.5  3.7  3.6  3.9  4.0
Ii*l*ta        0.5  0.1  0.4  0.3  0.3  0.2                                                         0.5
COTTON     taSinted        1.2  1.0  01.9  0.6  0.4           0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.?                           1.2     6.6
Part Irrlgeted  1.0  0.5  0.4  0.4                0.6  0.6  0.?  0.7                                1.0     1.0.9
tccfgated           0.?  1.8  3.5  3.6  4.3             0.7   . 0.7  g    0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0
S*taltakS      3.2  3.2  3.1  3.5  4.0  4.2                             e.3
PuAut      *eSnftd         1.3  1.0  0.9  o.3  0.3            1.3  1.   IJ.2   1.3  1.4                         1.3     1.4
Part teigated  1.0  0.6  0.4                       1.4  1.4  1.5                                    1.0     1.6
terflated           0.6  1.1  3.0  3.6  3.0             1.5  1.6  1.9  3.3  2.3  3.4  3.5
SihtelM        2.2  3.3  3.4  3.6  3.9  3.0                                                          .
$ONU"I      Reated         0.9  0.6  0.5  0.4 0.15            1.0  1-0  1.2  1.3  1.3                           0.9     1.4
Pwt trrflgatd  O.S  0.3 0.15                       1.3  1.3  1.3                                    0.3     1t
Irrigated           0.3  0.6  0.9  1.2  1.4             1.3  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.5  1.6  1.6
iteteL         1.2  1.2 I.85  1.2  1.35  1.4                                                        1.3
""nSIo     Relaited        0.6  0.6  0.1  0.5  0.3            1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  11.3                          0.6     1.3
Pt erclgat.d  0.4  0.2  0.3                        1.2  1.2  1.3                                    0.4    1.3
rfltcelgad          0.4  0.6  1.r  1.?  3.0             1.3  1.3  1.4  1.1  1.6  1.?  1.7
gT        Rtanted
Port tcefpelad
11ftsul,   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
UAINL    astfed
Patr Irrigated
Mut.at         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
bEWAILS  lhInfed           0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.1            19.01 19.0 19.5 30.0 311.0                        0.     31.
Pont Irrigated  0.3  0.3  0.1                     :2030   2003    34.0
IssIassed     ~~~~0.2  0.4  0.6  6.6  0.9         3.   202.   703.   902.
m*toWa         0.6  0.7  0.6  0.6  0.9  0.9                                                          .
lOYAL       SaInted
Part Icelgated
tilgelped
TOTA6         27.06.3
MOPPISGIO 50              15                          1.65
Noe$A IoySSAwd NW I3u d    an nfn    Sag hp  VW3.s  61P.ad



75                                                         AMnex 3
Table 1.3
*                                                          AM   Pftj_st
@ULTIVAUUO ARIA                                                                                                     N   = lv
mIMrred        10.7.0  4.4  13.1, 06.9                                                                 *6 f  Y
Pare ~  ~       ~      ~      Ist terpee    4.   4.0lJ 32    -    r
WWI       CAlMned          3.4  4.1  4.3  3.0  0.?                1.   .       .   .31  8.4  3.4  3.4  3.4           3.4      3.3
Port teeleed u4   '.e  1.6                             ii   3.4                                           1         .
leeloslud            4.0  4.4  9.5  11.1  93.0               I.T3.   3.0  3.3  3.73. 46
aeAtlaP.       13.5  93.5  13.0  13.5  13.3  13.0                                                        93.3
MN       l CoalMd           4.3  3.1  1.6  1.0  0.3                3.1 3.15  3.3  3.3  3.4                             4. 
Port IrrIssied   1.0  0.6  0.4                         2.4  3,4  3.5                                      1.6       .
Ifrep14ted           1.4  3.4  3.1  3.3  4.0                3.   3.0  3.3  4.6  4.3  4.3  4.
"Stoatel        3.3  3.0  4.6  4.3  4.1  4.0                                                              1.3
PA00V       pointed
Part ler3sted  3.0  1.0  1.6  0.7  0.3                 3.3  3.6  3.9  3.6  3.0                            3.0    :1.0
IrrIgated            0.3  3.0  3.3  3.4  4.0                3.0  3.3  3.3  4.0  4.3  4.3  4.1
"islet6         3.0  1.11  3.0  3.3  3.1  4.0
VAST P0TA10 CalMeod         0.3  0.3  0.1  0.9                     3.5  3.5  3.4  3.4  3.7 .?.
Part :rPlgg?4d  0.3  0.9  0.1                         d4 30        .30.3                                           3.
lefIt Id             0.9  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3                a.  13. 3. 3. 3. 3. 4.
m*totete        0.4  0.4  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3                             -    -    .    .    . 
COTTO       CAlMfed         0.3  0.1  0.3  0.4  0.3                0.3  0.1  0.4  0.4  0.?                             .        .
Part Itrrlged   0.?  0.4  0                            0.4  0.4  0.7                                      0.7     0.6
terflgetd            0.4  0.9  1.9  3.4  3.0                07     .70.4  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0
P1*1.101   ~1.3  1.5  3.0  3.3  3.3  3.0
P1*1w       CalrMed         0.9  0.7  0.4  0.4  0.3                 .    .    .    .    .                             0.9      1.3
Par9Irlgst.d  0.      .4  0.3                          9.4  1.4  1.1                                      0.4     1.4
IrrIgated            0.4  0.7  1.4  1.F                     1.5  1.4  1.9  3.3
SI*:st.a 1,*      oe-1.5  1.5  1.4  1.4  1.9  0.0
esUaa*      mainfed         0.3  0.6  0.5  0.3  0.1                1.0  1.0  1.3  1.3  1.3                            0.6      1.0
Pe" t rrIgated
Irrtgst.d            0.3  0.3  0.5  0.7                      .   1.4  1.4  1.59.   1.4  1.4
14"t*1t         0.   11.3  0.3  0.6  0.3  0.0                                                             0.3
RAPtIuS     Minted          0.5  0.4  0.3  0.3  0.1                9.0  1.0  1.9  1.1  1.3  1.3                       0.3      1.0
Part irritated  0.3  0.3  0.2                          9.3  1.3  1.3                                      0.3      1.3
Irritated            0.3  0.1  0.9  1.2  1.4                 1.3  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.6  1.?  I.7
11tat* t        0.3  0.6  1.0  1.3  1.2  1.4                                                              0.3
Part ierIgated
irrigated
s.*1.tet        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
VA?3RONS   laignfad
Part trrigated
ierrigted
IgAtetel        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
VWOSTAILS   sairifed        0.3  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3               99.0 19.0 13.31 30.0  31.0                          0.2    19.0
Pae" Irrigated  0.2  0.3  0.1                         33.0 32.0                                           0.3    33.0
Irrigated            0.1  0.3  0.5  0.4  0.3               34.0  1.0 3.* 3.0 3.0  39.0 3e.0
iga*t at        0.e  0.1  0.4  0.?  0.s  0.4                                                              0.1
TOTAL       laifed
Part trrigated
Irrfgated
TOTAL          43.4                        43.4
OPPINS liWiN          1.O3                        1.?1
lateu                       O.eu  o. *J e ebiwi ad o aau  Sem.  1i.  Jed



-76                                                           Annex 3
Table 1.4
Uaha
@uLlweela" AF  W^ tighjt tWIVS
...........................................                          ,, ..,,,,,,,..,........................
Ulius reja
VftA                       i    a      a    4      *                t           a     4    1     a           l    9bst IOIOaion
Part rrfgaeed Ch.?  1.0 PtS   A          t  100                 tw tft  td  ft                                      tW
nu                   I    a  103 20.  29.?  3.
Wad          n.lce   c r S7  o  .ao  i.t                                                                  As fo vo  I 
Irigted              10 s.3  90.6 at.? 3t.1
,atat          23.1  23.1  3.6 a.13.1 2.1  0.0
WNSAT        tainted         17.6  13.0  *.2   .1                     2.2 2.1   2.   2.4                                   17.6     LS
Part trri"ted   8.3 4a         1.0 i3.   I.6  J .?                                                              LJ     a..
Irigated              L.  14.8   i        3o us                   2.t  i   .@   L.   3?   3.9  4.0
1toa*te         21.9  21.0  24.0  23.1  53.3   0.0
onh          Elanfed         l.   6.0  4.0   1.0                      2.1 2.11   .a   aS                                    L.      2.6
Pert Ir l satd   3.7  2.4  O.1                            L4  i.&  2.1                                         3.7     24.
Irrfgated             3.6  6.1  9.0  10S e.e                   a.   3.   S    4.0  4.2   44   4.1
PA00?        Relinted
Port trrfgated   0.?  0.e  0.1  0.6                       2.    .   2.9  3.0                                   Lt.     Le
IrrIgted              0.3  2.1  4.4  1.6                       3.0  3.2  3.3  4.0  4.2 4s   4.
St,tat             0.? 0t   3.0  1.0  1.6  0.0
$MM  POTATO Rinfed            . 0.   0.1  0.1                            1.1  2.6  2.6  2.s                                1.1     LIe
Pert IrrIgated   0.4  0.4  0.1                            3.0  3.0  3.2                                        0.4     3.i
l rrigated            0.1  0.9  0.9  0.1                       :.a  3.2  3.1  3.7  3.1  3.9  4.0
l0watevaL       1.9  1.8  1.1  1.0  0.1  0.0
UTION       RelAted          2.1   1.7  1.6  0.?                      0.1  0.1  0.6  0.6  0.?                              2.1      0.7
Pert tIrfIttd   1.1  0.6  0.2                             0.6  0.6  0.   C.?                                   1.1     0.4*
Irrigated             t.0  L.7  1.3  6.0                                   0.3  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0
SthtetM         3.2  3.3  4.1  6.o   68. 0.
PIAIt        RelAted         1.4  1.1  0.0  0.3                        1.2  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4                              1.4     1.11
Part IrrIfgtd   0.r  LS  0.I                              1.4  1.4  1.1                                        0.?  e .?
Irrigated             0.6  1.6  2.L  3.2                       I.  1.6  1.9  L.2   LS3  2.4  LS
1S*tAteL        2.1   2.2  2.7  3.0  3.2  0.0
"YUIAN       Relafed         1.4  1.0  0.3  0.3                        1.0  1.0  1.2  1.2  1.3                              1.4     1.4
Pert irrigated   1.6  0.4  0.1                            1.2  1.2  1.3                                        1.6      1.4
IrrIgated             0.6  1.3  2.0  2.4                       1.3  1.4  1.4  .j  1.1  1.6  1.6
gw:at.t         3.0  2.0  2.2  L.3  2.4  0.0
"$DRIE       Reaited         1.2  1.0  0.9  0.3                        1.0  1.0  1.11  1.1  1.2                             1.2     1.3
Pert Irrflated    ?  0.4  0.1                             1.2  1.2  1.                                         0.      1.4
Irrigated             0.6  1.4  2.4  2.8                       1.2  1.3  1.4  1.1  1.6  1I?   1.7
S*:oteI          1.9  2.0  2.4  2L7   2.3  0.0
Aflt        Related          0.3  0.2  0.2  0.                        1.2  1.2  1.3  1.4                                    0.3     1.e
Port Irrigated  0.1  0.1  0.1                             1.4  1.4  1.1                                        0.1     1.7
Irrigated             0.1  0.3  0.6  0.3                       11s Cm,  1.r  1.e  1.9 ae2.0  L.o
skatogst    0.4  0.4  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.0
R      flAted     .    .ot.                   .
Irrigated
&hbtmtait       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
W0tLS.AI     elatned         S.S  0.4  0.3  0.1                       19.0  1.9  19.1  0.0  21.0                            0.1    3.0
Per-t tIrrfgated  0.3  0.2  0.1                          22.0  2.0 21.0                                        0.3    11.0
Irr-igate.d           0.2  0.4  0.?  0.3                      24.0  12.0 20.0 27.0  11.01 29.01 U.0
skatetat    0.3  0.8  0.8  0.3  0.5  0.0
MOAL.       elAtned
Part Irrigated
IrImated
toTa.         1I.s                       6.a
VpiI  ltUO                  3.11                    1.12
5t5ts t15ft         unshow e     m  MW Rw  w_d u l5    al -d



- 77 -
Annex 3
Table 1.5
WutIIg111% Ar   VWfields Vail lnIgstlgs Am
....................................... ..................................................................................
Uthtt trjeJst                                                                   with roJesit Poue 
matt Irrigation Area         W Oi igi  n Planted Aloe  ftIa  0             emaigm In Yield   7wv56fto
VELA             I    8~~~ ~~~                                       ~    ~ 3    4  2   I S    V          ueIUTvual
CULTIVATION AMU
Bainfed        IL?T 3.33  41.7  24.9  6.3                                                                  At fr Towe I
part Irrigated
trrigtsd             85.1  41.6  56.1 15.8  U.4
Total          03.7 80.4  03.4  0.4  03.4  03.4
UiAT        pointed         67.0  46.0  32.3  19.3  6.4               8.2 8.2   8.3  2.4  2.4                             67.0       .S
Pert Irrigaeud
IrrIgated            19.3 31.3   .   4.7 41.1                  a.?  2.   3.0  3.5  3.7  3.9  4.0
.thtat         47.0  45.3  63.5 41.6 41.2 4.1
i051        linfeud         25.6  16.4  12.0  7.4  1.6                2.1  L.ts  2.2  2.3  2.4                             7.0      2.
Ptet Irftgttd
IreIated              7.4  12.0  4.4 23.2 2.1                  i.    3.e .  .S  4.0  4.2  45   GS
WItotot        85.6  8.6  8.9  13.   3.1  82.1
PAeDT        alsnfed
Part Irrigated
tIrltgted
wissetet        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
tMt POTATO lainfed           5.0  J.2  1.6  0.9  0.3                  2.d  2.5  2.                                         5.0      2.
Part tertreted
Irrigated             1.4  1.6  1.6  a.0  2.1                  3.2  3.3  3.5  3.?  3.6  3.9  4.0
6.htet t        5.0  4.4  3.?   L8   2.3  3.1
WTOUI       tainted          9.4  7.4,  7.4  S.5   L.                 4.5  0.5  0.4  0.4  0.7                               ,       O.A
Pert trrIgated
Irrigated             3.7  4.4  12.9  1'.5  81.2                .?  0.?  0.e  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0
"total          9.4  11.0  13.6  1.4  20.2 81.8
P101w?      lalnfed          9.8  7.4  4.4  4.6  I.6                  1.2  1.8  1.3   153  1.4                             9.2      1.4
PFrt Irrfigotod
Irrigated             2.0  5.5  6.3  12.0  14.3                1.5  1.4  1.9  2.a  8.   8.4  8.5
Itbtotel        9.2  10.1  8.O  13.9  13.  14.3
4O51634     Eeinftd          3.9  3.0  2.1  1.4  0.4,                 1.0  1.0  1.2  1.a  1.3                              3.9      1.4
Pert trrfgated
IrrIgated             0.9  8.1  3.1  4.1  4.6                  1.3  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.S  1.6  1.4
W,t.tat         3.9  4.0  4.3  4.5   C.?  4.
PA""IS      Ra*lnfed         4.0   2.9  8.4  1.6  0.6                 1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.2  1.8                         4.1      1.3
Part trrigated
Irrigated             1.8  2.8  3.?  5.1  4.1                  1.3  IS3  1.4  1.5  1.4  I.?  I.?
Isk6totat       4.0  4.0  4.4  5.5  5.9  4.1
JUT         lelnfed          1.4  0.9  0.6  0.4  0.4                  1.2  11.3  1.3  1.3  1.4                             1.4      1.51
Part Irrfgated
Irrigated             0.5  0.6  1.4  1.6  2.3                  1      .4  I.?  1.6  1.9 t    .0  8.0
s*tOteat        1.4  1.4  1.7  2.0  2.z  8.S
;Attump0    teaintd          0.3  0.a  0.2  0.3  0.2                 20.0  V0.0  20.5 R1.0  21.0                           0.      22.0
Pert trrfated
IrrIgated             0.1  0.4  0.4  0.7  1.0                 25.0 84.0 87.  21.0  39.0 30.0 30.0
5*totet         0.3  0.3  0.4  0.6  0.9  1.0
WUIAIIS    llinfed           1.7  1.3  1.1  0.6  0.3                 19.0  19.0  19.5 20.0 81.0                            1.7    22.0
Part Irrigated
Irrfgated             0.4  0.6  1.4  1.6  2.2                 24.0  5.0  24.0 8.0  MI.0  39.  30.0
51111t:094l     I.?  1.6  1.9  2.0  21 2.8
MOAL        lelinfed
Pert IrrIgated
Itrrlgeted
TOMA          187.9                         137.2
mOPiOg InS                  1.53                          1.U4
"oto$ kyIasn md m  lbeu  oo*nad mU i40 ad Imam csnod



I tI       _ _ n   w S     1_9   O
go?  sK1  Old  eM  *A   eM                                    e O    re   roo i'e
CAl               re          e-e So       e0lt Oit clot OL D l Is                  1@   ile  %le e    oe   o g@  0| aJW3s
gel                          8ea   ,   Oes  c-  e'&U  e-ei oWas               ro  re o     e ro o   Lo               11uISS   gueAvau
oI   o e e.g -le     eeo o   ooeo    n11eaw4
e.D    i  91 01  9 1  o's  0'1        1 1 lea "
9-1                             ei  ea s        us   a*   91   9   .1           ei  r,e   re   .-e   le               psau-iJ.I
ri                  i's  all  tlt  V~~i  ri1  ri   l                 '     I  Ig s0  ee   Ie ,0           sbi.
Olti-                                   r        l  rz   a- W1 '   &I   II   OtOl    o  VIC  CIO  1-0  M-ff                        O el*a
31 rz   rl a j.&   -    tl   *-1  rl            ei  y       I **g     al   Ol                         guo eww W
71  a tOltt Ora      g1g    e         t 3 1 aea
ri                              CI - 4W-1 91    1  b-1 l        *- 91           9t  1.1-   30  * °    e               Pah1JJ
el0                6ie e-o                                 e& 01      i.             9£0e  ce   *o   *g Olt         PeU._j.aos
01                     ~~~~~ri   ri  *    r&   1i  i    el e. gl  9.0  9@ o               e r  e                PS.ujS.    CIS3V
VI          VI  916~~~~~~~~~~ Vt  Is 21   Vt  Ol£t   e- X0   1                         ol 91        ebloev     WN
1-1                             *.1  *.1  9.1  11  si  rl  3W1                  i1  r1  er    ,        a-g            pe3JaJl
;°                  01                          *o  *o  *o  g*e  oo                   ,-e  Cg is   61   Ot          PIsistdea
O's                             ri   I          Ol   Ol  Ol 1l  e0                 VI ee  ,og     o    lo  all      P61111K321S
4.5                             Ii6  Olt  O1S3 I's  111  tlt  V1                O' t   1 1  * 1 es    * g 1 r  1i     l,sae
*-'        '-e  b-t  t-t  t-t  ^-1  -s   s-l~~~~~~~~~~~~$le O-$   -0*- *'0 Olt -09,                joicam
e1                              r 31            )|,   e*i  on                     l .e  *o o.  .-e g  £ o*  3.1*g P.eaa
1910  9.10      O's 9. £10 .IO i i0             en   D'se 9e  ,e Ol   e t 9 r           u           uesp
6-e                  *                            o  $lo  Vo  90  *-e                 91   II  Olt  i's  *I         PMI-9f
0e                              e-e  SIe  el  A'e   ee I   re                   ge   *t  *I   * 1  Ol 1 ,^"e                          eue
Ie                              0               gr  W r    A    rg rg t r e            e go   ,3   eg  e. e            itt e  pt    MsI
eOl rb   rt   t e Ol r t  Ole   VIgtg* gle-gl     g I'sCIO eu.an.l
1e-9&  9.1  0-91 e e0 9    0*95       19asau
0.9                          tlt~~~9g*   3.,  ro9  i9  Oe.  gg                Ole Oglt  0,9  eml              Psiglejaj
*S                  99                          C1              Il * *&  g I '        e-  eOs  Ol   alit eclt    Peuwuws
9fl eeI I   t  1et e n  rO    t        . ae           N
cm                              0.9 a*g  j*g*    e.g  g*   4.           e    ~        eel sg1g  ge etg                PIlilid
II                  9.30                        ii   &m  1a  (e.  em                  st c  o sl ' asn  *ln _*gg      as
all                         $18  I1   VI  oll  O's                619~~~~9   I,d, l'91   'Irl e9  immlmel8"2
ra                              *as  C's  III  III  $1   gle  VI                oli3 I'      s gll    g.*   gg VU pWeIs eA
ro  a, r1 Vw*e    e*ow r e               J^ebe
1 diSh dW 39                                    39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~ ~~~10  I'l*.1   53   I  P98U5Si.1
PiSIA'll I'm IOeVU            ^a Aw
aamle  si    -u    -i             -.                       si                                                             ei  .n ufie i
9TSI&WI 11101 W Imai   bmi   IPII PA -    a geI -    ilA
91 dr 9Tqwj  ~        ~         -ed   K~'3Ot.MIUle  U0
C "uw~~~~~~~~~~''



- 79 -                                                        Annex 3
Table 1.7
aim
feW AVIOultuat 0ewele t 7trl.et
Witletim Area si Yeled  oeraide   elm Irrlgatgtn
s.reeS Prajtl t Pjeet.............................
Sa0ehug R1etierrIsgtIu  Changes In Planted Ame    N low      e         Usg  in Yied   TeiVu
"M                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arm   Yiltd
AtIATIOM I A                                  i               t    a  *        4     *         7             **OI= / TOO"
@Aflvnatl AM
RelAted        1.3  .3   4.0  4.0                                                                    As 1w lwee I
water Leggd   10.3  1.3
Irrigated                 T.J  r.1
Ttota         11.5  11.1 1. 11.1 M    0.0  0.0
IllA?      Iamife           1.0  1.3  3.1  3.3                    3.3 3.30  8.3  3.0  3.1  3.3  3.3  3.4            1.0     3.3
watel Logge    0.3  .4.                               3.0  3.0                                          0.3     LI1
Irrigated                 4.4  1P.0                              3.   3.0  3.1  L.7  3.9  4.0
9.*tetm        9.3  9.3  0.1  9.3  0.0  0.0
RelAted        0.4  L.1  1.1  1.1                                                           3.1         0.4
Water Legged    4.1  3.0                              1.0  1.3                                          4.1     1.9
irrigated                 3.0  3.0                               3.0  3.3  3.0  4.0  4.3  4.3
wwatetst   4.1  4.1  4.1  4. 10.0  0.0
NS          RelAtfed
water Legged
Irrigated
*Sutotal       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  6.0  0.0
lhT WOATO RelAtfed               0.3  0.3  0.3                    3.1  3.1  3.4  3.9  3.0  3.1  3.3  3.33.
vater Leggd    L.7  0.3                               3.    .1                                          0.?     3.3
ierrgated                 0.3  0.3                               3.3  3.1  3.7  3.0  3.9  4.0
gq*tatal  0.?  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.0  0.0
CIo.       RalAted         0.3  1.0  1.4  1.4                     0.1  0.1  0.4  0.4  0.7  0.7  0.?  0.7            0.3     gA5
Water Legge     1.3  1.0                              0.4  0.4                                          1.3     0.43
irIgateId                 3.3  3.3                                 0.7   .   0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9
Rinllett       1.4  3.0  3.4  3.4  0.0  0.0
115141     talAted         0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3                     1.3  1.1  1.3  1.4  1.j  1.4  1.4  1.4            0.1     1.30
Water Legge    0.3  0.3                               0.9  0.9                                          0.3     0.94
irrIgatd                  0.4  0.4                               1.4  1.9  3.3  1.3  3.4  .3.
On*tglta        0.4  0.1  0.4  0.4  0.0  P0 0
SOtOAM      pointed        0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3                     1.0  1.0  1.1  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3            0.1     1.1
Water Lage     0.1  0.3                               0.9  0.9                                          0.1     0.94
:Ismgae                   0.3  0.                                1.3  1.4  1.1  1.4  1.6  1.4
gnteltl        0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.0  0.8
poin elted           0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3                     1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.1
watetr Legged    0.1  0.1                             0.9  0.9
IrrIgated                 0.1  0.1                               1.3  1.4  1.1  1.6  1.7  IJ?
S&n"Ca:l       0.3  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Reated ow
teetr agged
a*htete        0.0  6.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
5133lS30   Rented
Water Legge
rrelgeud
gnmtatl        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Wg3A313   blnted                 0.1  0.1  0.1                   19.0 19.0 30.0 311.0 U.S  IL0  34.0 5.0                   19.0
Watr Legge     0.3  0.3                              17. 1.0                                            0.3    17.4
Irrlgetd                  0.3  6.3                              U.S  U6.S  37.  U.S  39.0 30.0
VAMoat         0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.0  0.0
Water Legge
Irrigase
MOAL         15.4              31.7        0.0
APP1l1E11 Ism             1.00             I1.06
"ets 9000e1 uwNWI me*em   fead uW  up   i $am e"Ii



- 80                                                     Annex 3
Table 2.1
CNI"
MM AUIMVJM OCARUP014PIT
Crop &AM at Mt Cle"Imp
.............................................................................................................................................................
unit U       up"c         cam         pedew  stmve ftcoce   Gstion     POMNA       0,,k -,    Rsps"od       me    vatwmtcn  Veptsuce
PrIcsAmmusevatue APPAUVatue AmomMetwe AMotfttwo ANWJWSIU* AmmawwrVatum AmVAmcV6iUv IAIMWOiUo ANvAlMiuo AMMIVOWS AMOMMetue
.................     -------------- ------------------------------------------------------ . . ................ ..... . . . .... .... . ... . ....................
,Chftt 01ftimm-Rainfed
...................
tift      LZ          2.1                      LS V        0.3        1.2         1.0         1.2         1.2          n
T/C             673          m                       m          6m         Ina         12"         ISO         law          300
Watue       TM"              U41         13U                                 MG         14-0        im          an          17116       400
-mg vatus I/ Tuen               114          35                                 a"          140          a           as                     in
Immem         TUM             l6n          im                      1470       3519        ISN                                 to"         4120       3101
of Preammen
.............
Kg        ISO  la$    44    60                                  IN   m    uo   n    la$    a        la   U    In       3 la        a so
fC MMOA 6       w"          is  SW      la   MI                  n   4m    is  3m    IS  3w         la  loo   12  300   10   200   35   700   0 4"
laws -4 V       r4  I.?   00  IU       60   102                 30   36   90  M        U    34   40   62   40  102                     25   43   80  IU
Iwo -m          to  1.6   20   36    a       36                            0    43   30   54   0    36   15 V                               I"    0     36
-)Wiests,         V4               la            a                                in            I           4                                  76         0
1 Animt          me.               n            16                      36         36          33          39          40          35          a          ae
fnwy             Tim               St           14                     is          n           14                                  Is          20         la
-cfen Voter       113
TUM
TUM               n           61                                 In                                  40                     ago         =2
..tat trout cam                  796         4"                       6"         to          sn                      1116        4=        IS=.
[mom                             a?          a"                       m         3613         7n          me         "it         14=        asir.       Vall
"Y         179         140                     no          371         am          124        us          ml    -
.am pw Nods-    I                  CI          5.4                     3.6         T.0         3.6         *A                      9.9         5.3        LT
Pnimt-Pwtfai I"foetwo
..........................
tihe       LS          2.4         2.9           3         0.6        1.4         1.2                     1.4          23          n
lit             6n           6=          V9          so         654111     Ina          un                     160          m           me
Vatue        Tim             1653        14a         VAI         lsoo        3m         .1m         im                      nn          460         "00
-%Om VaLue    TV"               IN            73         122         VA         352         143          VT                     114         144          a
trAmm         vum             is"          1561        X11tS       1740       4m          "a          I"?                     IIIK        4m         "Go
of Prodwdon
............
go        ISO  lft    40    60   de   "a            ias   go  log  =I  344   77 - 10                           I=      3 VA        2 so
Is Nwww         who to   as  40          10   =0    u   00  ZLI  450   vS  306   a   am    to   loo                         15  310   IN   700   35  700
fttxw% .9         KS  UT   iom  170    0    IM    110   UT    0    36  IN   UL   29   34   44   66-                                      30   $1  150  315
ftixws 4=5        Kg Ila   3o   s&    so   m          3a   s4   is    n    40   72   30   SL   15   36                                        in         so  ft
--gusto         go               14            a          5                     in            a           4                                             a
ft.               60          IT         114          36          40         36          39.                     36          a           SI
34          Ss          41          IS          n           14         a                       Is          20          n
..WO Waco       Po   io   ii    n    ar        7     9    so   ai      I  4.8    a  A        IS  O.A   IS                0.3     2   1.2    n   1.4   14
45         in           70        U&           97          n                       n          m   --3n
04          m          liar         T"         Imi         SW          $40'                    $a         ml          Is"
trasm                      m   m   Ub l41ZS 300 um  no m   six 3PAI all 494 us UOY                                         in tat &A 310  mam
-am per mewsp   vum                 5.2          6.2         4.9         4j         9.5         6.1         6.3                     6.3         5.3        LT
lick "efest,ftAtir Imllosod
.....................
trm         4         4.5          4.5           4           1        LS          t.6         1.7                      30          n
T/t              an          m           09                     6m          me          I202    ISO                         No          200
TWA             ma    V"    31116   am    4m    3m    aw    an    MG    NO    600
--ust VoLin    vu"              2#4          120         m           m          A"          as          In          107         ISO         I"
troom         vwm             VW          solo         4186        an         a"          =a                                  3110        6150       6011
ProdMfm
..............    Q         ISO   M      40    72    60   I"           120         log   M    3do   75   105    4 811                     2W          I       90
to xwwe         t1ft   ag r  ,  418    IS   3M   XLS  490  %LS  4"  ni   no U.5  454   15  3M    20                         Is          41m        43  ON
itfws '41         V41 1.7  IN   m       lie   w      In    ni   30   51  UG  Ull  $0   0    00  IM    80  Is    100                      so 0   =0  SO
Itmem  -m         q 1A    44   72    30    14    40    72   IS    V               So   "    13   M   So   IN   30   34                   so  I"    is  In
~ set*            Kg               20            4          35                     Ila          a          n                                   n          in
t Anidat         Me.               73           a          ISO          so          14                     so                      so          so         31
lowy             T/he              so                       0    -     u           n                       n                       20         31          30
pgisn VUW         mS N        3   60   IJ    30  10.1  210         I   n   IA    3Z  Ij    16  1.1   IA   1.2   26  GA    la   1.9   311  2.1   42
vton                                                                                                 40
Tum                                      ISO          so         IN           40         go
Mgogat tfqPA CSM                    life         m          III%        11la        a"          1214        m          "4                      lm          am
traom                           IT"          also    8674            Mr         5612        Mo          lw         U&S          a"          439        3M
ow         m           "O          360         no          4n          ISO         143 9.6 mIZA  m  464 mSi  m4.3
-V,O" pw mwdw           yfam        LA          11.2         IPA         6.0        U.4         8.9
.  ..u ...........                  ............ . ..... . ................................ . . . .... . ...                  . .. . .....................
SWAMI Pmtoa satfmtn.
pw%itfw  owelow so Xs 0 ww V4 Pasim. Prfew of   J wd " .2 MMIMICS PPION pw wilt of 0 6 Om    as MMIPA biowbmte of tmt 04ftnboopmte.
pridw we wwwwa fn Tift owwf am.
$Mset Pents, yostd   amrses" as $"in opivetwig ft sks pmee 0 Ike of Val". fttaee pet"  to TIOuten.



- 81-
CHIN4A                                                               Annex 3
Nwwi £05 WLIIRA. 0  ILOnJO  PROECTTable  2.2
Ctop lAidgte at FULL 06vLeUp
CVtVI'.)
UiMP:    We'st       coan      INC. Potage-   Cotten      Psaftt      6eybsa      Ispeded       Juts    vaU5tIb
uiMPt Price Amutalum gVtatue AmuntVatue Ai.sVIS utVatus AftanrVaWM iutu.e AMMtoAwmftwatu ANAwigValus A..EtVOtUO
A. wietnout ProJss-fdagert"ogu/osrty Drofned/11blaet to Ptlod
Yield                  ton/I'         1.9          1.8         2.1          04.9.80.9                                        1.2          IT
Prfe,                   V/ton                873         430          50         650         120           9          1i00        146020
Peoduo: Vatue          Yu"n              1279         1118         1050        am0         Im8          1u&         1350        1778        3400
3y*produet Vatue,     V'm                 14?           60          181         36          loll         75           sr         110           0
oroe"  Into"s          Yuen               1438        119          1211        UN6         1160        1104         1407        186         3440
costs of Proouction
*Sas'do                   Kg          150   105    40460              12090 *106an380  71105                      a812    20 120           a    so
*Fsrtitzas rN.           tg   1.7 60  102           60  102    20  3460  136    10   IT    2034f-50 66                                    60138
P*,rtitlf:.cs -930        Kg   1.8    i5    27    1s    3        a0     a    1s    37    Is     7    is    27    to    1a                 20    38
*Avveawoshtas            Ks                  la            a                      II11                      3            0                      60
-Draft AnfIL            go.                  go           18          as           20          as       .30             so          40          40
machfnwv          /I'.                 30          14           12.         32          11           14          13          Is           is
*irrigagtion lte         IIS    10      0      0     0     0a    0     0      a     a     0    0      0     0.   0       0     0     0     0     0
*Taaam                  Yuen
.OtMss                   VUM                 75           40          40          120          10          40           38e4                   350
*Ctoa  l ZA~u Costs                     694          439           3          6M0         794         373          455         563         1110
Not mesas                                 733          757          6          am2          356         731         9"a         132          we0
Labor                    0.v          ITS          140         210          370        2me          10           1in    .    241         7
Retumn per MNdawy    Yuanday              4.2          4.7         3.1          5.5         1.9         8.1          7.4         5.5         3.2
B. ulthgi ProJ.e:*Ralnfud
Yield                   un/ia.        2.2          2.2         2.5          0.5          1.         1.           1.0         1.3           19
Prfe ca,V/ton                               673          43.0         so0        6500        1200        1292         1300        1460          t00
Predmit Vatue          Yuen               1481        1384         1200        3ZS0        1440         1292        1500        194         3600
ty-product Vatum       Yuan               18010         s           216         us5         140          92           a5          9?           0
CGos  gneoe           Vua                18461        1414         148         353         156         134          15s5        am2         3600
Cases of Produtton
.Sa.da                   Kg           110 105   40460                 120  90106U5 360  73 105    81212 20 I                                210o
.'rganlo MAiwe.         tomiflm     20    20   400    15   300  V-5   480  20.5  450  32.5  450    15   300    15   300    15   300    20   400
.Pr.gM%fg .M              go  1.7013846 010Z20 34 90 153 2534 40 640.102                                                                  se138
*P.rgtlssrs -P8           Ka  1.8 2  368210 3                                40 72 3015420 3615  V                                        207?
.Aigroasomgoo.s           Ka                  13           a                      120           5           4                                   so
-Oraft nlint            No.                  40           is          36           36          33          38           ST          36          32
*Rdwnsy              V/As                 35           15         1Is1                                   3           51 
-Irrigation lastg        1.3                  a            00
.0thers           Vaiwa                72           81a8                    128          52          doU                      65         352
SLM CObttl Iput Cmta                     666          594          71         1090        1002         424          55          53          1145
met moos.                                 71           830          75         2W6          57          760         10l2        1463        am5
Labr                     OgY          175          140         Sao          37          201         124          130         241        .2
Rtcurn per mod"       Vus.day             45           5.1         3.4          8.5         LI          8.1          T.J         8.1         3.7'
C. lfathi PreJost-RaPnfedAlAt.r control,
Tfiet                   twmn/,        3.4          3.5         3.3          0.7         1.6         IS           1.3         1.8          s
Pr i.e                  YT/U                873          480          lOS0                   1In0         129         1100        1480          20
Product Volvo        YTWn                226          2170         I660        4550        192          1860        19O         264         64100
Sy.produat Value       Yuan                208                    U25           370         10          110           U          i3n           a
aroes tnein.           Yam                2498        348          1903        492         2110         119         am3     .   279         4000
Costs of Proutiont a
.OrgfaM  Mutat          t"MM'  20  3.5   480    15  300  U.S  50 3G.5   420  3.5   450                I   3NO    15   300    15  300    45   90
*ps.fULeft U             Kg    1.?   110   18?   110   167    30    11   130   201    34    11    40   102    TO   lit    90   15         0    340
*faors*Pf  21-n           go   1.8    30    54    35    63      10    18    40    n       0    90    3S    43    20                            in71 13
*AgrioaIaf loss           Kg                  is                                  140           a           8                                   120
DOraft Anlmlt           W.                   so          30           so          se           so          so          73           so.         a
.dalngry                Vr/I                 40           as          20           20          to          20           20          20          30
*trrfgatlon dstaf        PS     20      0     0     0     0a     0     a     0     0      0    0      0     0a             .                 
.OtI'.rs                TUan                100           a71                     1S0          a5           1                       a06        "a0
"Cotal, tr*Ap  cane                     1061         740          714        1211        10o4          72 1 1                  75105
Nag  nmsm                                 1435        1S01         1119        370          01109                  L1,T0        207         395
Labor                    Day          10           1TS         240          391         2ll          140         140         no          t
Rmainm We Monday    Yua/da                7.6          8.8         4.?          9.4         4.7         7.4        &ILL          7J4         4.4
................  .....................................    ............



U  MEIRKnAL DEVELffI POJT
Faernlodul - Tellow 31w Dlversion Scheme Ameas 1/
._.______..........................__.._......___..............    __.    _.__.......................
PreR-t-VltbuAt Project               FutsweVithout Project               Future-Vith Project
........................ ..............................._.... ........... _.____.......................... ......-------------__-____--------------. _ __ __
Other      Totat                 other      Total               Other         Total
ainm 31   Crqm 4                  grains    crop                 Grains S/   Crqp
......... ................. ._______................................ _................................................._...
Aser (U) 2/                   0.55        0.16       0.71       0.55      0.16       0.71      0.S1       0.26       0.79
crop vlbl  (WO) 61           813.3       356.4      1169.7    Mi.9       356.4    1237.3    1305.7    1290.0       2675.?
'r-P"dwit Vius                73.0        33.9       106.9      73.0      33.9      106.9     109.6      103.2      213.0
Mtmi bl .ld   7/                                   5S2.0                            666.0                           840.0
Tota l ese                   16.3        390.3     1606.6      953.9     390.3    2610.2    1495.5    193.2    3m.7
of tin. I. .
Sm_                           S1.0        40.0       91.0       51.0      40.0       91.0      60.7       63.0      123.7
bs  c rmwe                   U1.0       S.0       210.0      160.0      50.0      210.0     210.0      126.0      336.0
frtilitrs-3                   74.0        13.3       87.3       74.1      13.3       67.4     101.8       46.8      14L6
FegtlIwa-sUO                  21.A        .ss        30.2       21.6      6.ss       30.2     34.36         31       65.4
sttlciim                      S.3         6.9        14.2       5.3      8.91       14.2      6.12      26.01       36.2
Drft Mimls                   21.93        7.03       32.0      24.93      7.03       32.0     31.75         14       45.8
iMU Y                         15.13       2.47        17.6     15.13      2.47       17.6       4.5        5.6       10.1
irrigotumm Vr                  1.7         0.3        2.0        1.7       0.3        2.0      22.9       8.2        31.1
MImI  Fid                                            100.0                          130.0                           150.0
odor   s  IV                  43.9         9.0        52.9      39.1      13.8       52.9      55.3       37.4       92.7
TOl                          397.5        39.5      637.0      392.9     14.3   667.2         S29.4      360.0     1039.4
ot Ibli  of Preiitlem        410         250.6      1167.6     561.0     246.0    1343.0      966.1    1033.2      269.3
Olbr  1aR 91
iUr for a_                      95          45        139         95        4S        139        99        92         192
Ubr fwr Met waisfas                                    iS                              94                             113
fSMiy U (W oh~                  95         45         214         95        45        233        99        92         305
_pm mmub                                        5.4                            5.6                             8.6
Fur Capita lms 10                                     259                             290                             53
i1 a typlcai b_t*d kw 4.5 fMlty  -1rs   ,  mbmind, wife, two chitldrn *nda *rfuprant. They hae 450 uinrodqs evailaie.
V/ Toa mtlelotatid rm  is .45 he (6M7S m  for dich 6 m  for sAset, 2.25 *  for maim, 1.35 for oil cren
Md 1.0 m fw coton.
3/ almris we deet md mIze.
41 Other ra  we lil aro (r ed, prnut mi rad  ml  od) *nd cotton.
Si Vith do project, eoah fdety md hew .79 bh (1.05 ma) for dbich .5 he (7.A5 me) nider futl Irriation for graInm
md .  he (4.2 ma udr  futt irrlgmtlmn for oit cras ard  otton.
61 See du tati c    tlletin is.  te projwect fite.
T7 Mimi rishb  lawiad  I pfe d I umtsb_ep witbut the project. eupuu to 3 gpt/_pq for future with"  the project mid
d S    t/_dmp with tho project.
4/ imetlgg  ferm tm SL
9/ so sib. m IeM  rmtmu tien.
/  _m   o 4.5n   p_ p     rp fidty.                                                                                                                 ww



13 ICtIlUUAL DEVELOEW  PRJECT
Fam Nodal - Cr.undmter wewlqIt Area 1/
Preeent-Wthot Project               Futuro-Uithout Project             Future-lith Project
.... .....__._._._____.... ______..._........ _..  ......... .... ...... _.............._ ....... ..............
Other      Total                Other     Total                Other        Total
fres 31   Crop 4/                  a*ins    Crops                 ains S/   Crops
................................................................................-_._
Arm () 2C                     0.57       0.12       0.69      0.57      0.12      0.69       0.51      0.22       0.73
ctop value (yaw 6/          815.4       266.4     1081.8     947.6     403.2    1351.0    1365.7    1050.0      2435.7
3-teiint Noim                71.9        24.5       96.4      71.9      24.S      96.4      109.3      83.S      193.3
_im  Ul.sin 7!                                    528.                          666.0                           840.0
etal I1_m                   17.3        290.9     1706.2    1019.7     427.7    2113.4    149S.S    1133.5      3469.0
go   fi -   ---       -    
Se db                        S2.7        28.0       80.7      52.7      28.1      80.7      60.7        6.4      107.1
rwuic linwe                  155.0       36.0      191.0     155.0      36.0      191.0     210.0      99.0      309.0
Fertflhxers -                72.1         9.4       61.5      72.1       9AS      61.5      101.8      38.6      140.4
Fetrtiws-92I5               20.52        S.94       26.5     20.52      5.94      26.5     34.38      23.95      5S.2
pesticides                   S.24         7.5       12.7      5.24       7.5       12.7      8.12     24.12       32.2
0 Sft aiml                   25.11       5.34       30.5    25.11       5.34      30.5      31.75        11       42.8
machinery                    15.36       1.74       17.1     15.36       1.74      17.1       4.S       4.4        8.9
larigmti  Wet"e               0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      96.0       17.6      113.6
dImI Fed                                           100.0                          130.0                          160.0
Othe Costs 4I                 39.3       10.7       50.0      39.3      10.7       S0.0     5S.3       30.6       85.9
Te 1 Corte                   305.2      104.6      589.9     385.2      104.7    619.9      602.5     295.6     1058.1
bt "ls  of Prehttitm         SMA.i      126.3     1116.3     634.5     323.0    1493.4   803.0        537.9     2410.9
-. Inc  9!
Iaor for Crps                  97          35        132        97        3S       132        99         75        174
Ld*r for Aimt rasim                                   75                            94                             113
Fady ty  enronydw              95          45        207        97        3S       226        99         7S        267
aDgm per Nw _                                        5.4                           6.6                             8.4
Per cqit. ireoe 1"I                                  248                           332                             S36
I/ A tMAcal hmma_ld a 4.5 fad ly  daers, lmbnd, wife, tw  chi"dren  d a grau*srent. They ae 450 workday availaile.
2V Total a*ecatlld s    is .45 he (6.15 mu for whids 6 m for  at, 2.4 m for mize, 0.9 m for oil crop
ad 0.9 - for cottm.
3/ Caim am    et ad Mize.
41 Oth eraqua am oil crops (sqAm-. pewut ad repeseed) ond cotton.
5! With the project, eacb fadly wold Nave .73 he (10.95 m) for mfcb .S ha (7.65 m) uder fult Irrigation for grim
ad .22 km (3.3 mm) .da  fill IrrigAtion for oil crqps a  cotton.
61 Sea detoal clal odatim  In the project file.
7/ Anmu  raisin ing luds 1 pie md 1 goet/sheop withut the project. expud to 3 got/heep f#or future withot the project md
ad 5 g.ato/_happ with thw project.
of Easladih  far  tea ML
9/ madoe   _qepl,  opportunitles.
10/ Med on 4.5          Fper f_ily.                                                                                                            1 W



AM   IuCILTtRAL DEVELO T POECT
Farm Nol - Draiag Arm  1/
Prent-Vitheut Project                Future-Without Project              Future-With Project
Otber      Total                 Other     Total                Other         Total
Gratni 31   Crops 4I               amis    Crop                  Brains /   Crops
................................................................................................................................
Are (No) V/                   0.61        0.L        0.61       0.61      0.08       0.69      0.55      0.23        0.78
Crop Value (Vum) 61          747.5       16.o6      913.1      787.5     168.0      95S.S    1072.S      757.2     1829.7
-ruilat Yalue                 76.3        18.8       95.1       76.3      18.8       95.1      88.7      69.3       157.9
inint Naisin 7/                                     S28.0                           666.0                           810.0
Total Im                     8.7         181.4     1S36.1      863.7     186.8    1716.5    1161.1      826.5      2W7.6
OIet   ee Costs
...............
sak                           SS.1        13.7       68.7      5S.1       13.7       68.7      60.0      34.9        95.0
Orgenic Nare                 1SS.0        21.0      179.0      155.0      24.0      179.0     218.5      103.5      322.0
Fertilizser-I                 62.2        8.S        70.7      62.2        8.5      70.7       90.4      37.6       128.0
Fortitizers-P2                16.5         1.2       17.6       16.S       2.2       18.6      26.7      16.6        43.3
Pesticids                      S.3         7.0       12.3        S.3       7.0       12.3       6.0      25.1        31.1
raft  nimts                   23.7         1.9       25.6       23.7       1.9       25.6      33.2       10.1       43.3
nmhdinary                     15.1         2.1        17.2      1S.1       2.1       17.2      18.2       4.8        22.9
Irrigation   ter0                                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
nimt feed                                           100.0                           130.0                           150.0
otenr cots 4                  40.7         8.2       48.9       40.7       8.2       48.9      47.2       2s.7       75.9
Total Cost                   373.6        66.6      S40.1      373.6      67.6      571.1    SO.3       261.1      911.4
Mat Value of Promotion       450.2       117.8      996.0      490.2     119.2    1145.4      660.8      S65.3     1916.1
Ohdwr bacm 9/
Labo for Ceqps                 104          26        130        104        26        130        99        82         181
Lsdor for Mnin  raisins                                7S                              94                             113
Fmily Ldbor (Ninijey)           95         45         205        104        26        224        99        82         294
leturns per Nudaly                                    4.9                             S.1                             6.S
Per Capit Insrm   101                                 221                             255                             426
1/ A typical c-Asthold ha 4.S feolty uashars, huowbd, wife, two children and a granc4arent. They hav 450 workdays amailable.
2/ Total allocated area is .45 ha (6.75 mu for which 6.15 m* for ueat, 3.0 m* for mite, 0.3 m* for oil crops
nd 0.9 m for cotton.
3/ ainm re uo    t ad mime.
4/ Othr crqp are oilt crops (swbeenb   peutts nd rapeseed) md cotton.
5/ With the project  ech f_ily would han .78 ha (11.7 m) for which 55 rh (8.25 mu) udar full Irrigation for grain
ad .23 ha (3.4  mu) wuder full irrigation for oit crops wid cotton.
6/ Se datelt calculationm in the project file.
7/ nImI raising inclms 1 pig  nd 1 got/shep ulthout the project. eIpn to 3 goat/sheep for future without the project ad
ond S oate/s/ep with the project.
U/ lncluding farm tax SS.
9/ Me othwr .potnt apportnities.
10/ Bsed on 4.5 persons per f_mly.                                                                                                                   w w



IE3UU AMIURTtAL DEVELOPYE T PROJECT
Fare Nodcl - Flood Control Areo 1/
................................................................................................................................
Presmnt-Vithout Project                 Future-Without Project                 Future-Vith Project
other       Total                   Other      Total                 Other          Total
Gmint  3I    Crops 4/                 Grains     Crops                Graf r  5/    Crop
Ann (1a) 2/                      O.S6        0.08        0.64        0.56       0.06       0.62       0.55        0.19        0.74
Crop Value (Turn) 6/            713.3       181.8       8A5.1       770.0      159.0      929.0     1229.2       870.0      2099.2
By-Proiut Value                 70.1         19.4        89.4        70.0       63.7      133.7       88.7       62.7        151.3
Anmim   lusian 7/                                       528.0                             666.0                              840.0
Total irno                     7M3.3        201.2      1S12.5       840.0      222.7    1728.7      1317.9       932.7      3090.5
"at    Costs
...............
seda                             49.4        13.7        63.0        49.4        6.S       55.8       60.0        20.5        80.6
uronic  No"ts                   175.8        2S.0       200.8       17S.8       18.0      193.8      218.5       85.5        384.0
Fertiliers-U                    83.6         12.1        95.7       83.6        11.6       95.2       94.7       37.6        132.3
Fertitllzurs-PMS                24.8          4.7        29.S        24.8        3.9       28.7       30.4        1S.5        45.9
Pesticidas                        S.2         7.3        12.5         S.2        7.2       12.4        7.4        28.8        36.2
oraft Animls                     24.0         2.9        26.9        24.0        2.2       26.3       31.5         8.4        39.9
Im mohnsy                        14.8         1.7         16.5       14.8        1.5       16.3       20.7         4.1        24.7
Irrigtion Water                  5.8           .S         6.2        S.6         0.4        6.2       17.T        3.2         20.9                            en
Animl Fed                                                100.0                            130.0                              150.0
Othr costs a/                    41.6         9.1        50.7        41.6        8.0       49.6       47.2        29.3        76.6
Total Costs                     425.1        76.8       601.9       425.1       59.2      614.2      528.1       232.9       761.0
Not Vmlue of Prodactfon         358.2       124.3       910.6       414.9      163.6     1114.5      789.8       659.8      2329.5
0thd   Incs  91
Lbr for Crops                      97          27          124         97         23        120        102          76         178
abo fern Animl  raisins                                     75                               94                                113
FmotylyL rd   h ON~y               97          27         1°9          97         23        214        102          76         21
rtbtan pF   ulury                                         4.6                               5.2                                8.0
Pf  Cqpita Inem  10/                                      202                               248                                518
................................................................................................................................
11 A tWctl hoseold ha 4.5 fad ly           r, hbudid, wife, two chidren an  a grandprent.  The ha    450 workdoys amllable.
2V Total alltcated ar   Is .45 ha (6.75 m  for ubich 5.25 mu for het, 3.15 m  for mIze, 0.3 mu for oll crops
on 0.9 m for cotton.
3/ grains we dIwt nd maize.
4/ Othbr crops ae olt crop  (soy.bsm, peweut. and raposeed) and cotton.
5/ With tbo project, sek fnitly would have .74 h  (11.1 m) for ahich .55 ha (8.25 m) under full irrigation for grainc
ad .23 ha (3.45 *u) und   full irrigation for ofl crop  and cotton.
6/ See daail calculatlaw in the project filt.
7/ Animtl raisine includs I pi  nd I ge t/shep without the project, expnd to 3 poat/sheep for future without the project mw
nd 5 obtaJ/ep with the project.
S/ Includin fanm tx SL
9/ No othxer _qronnmt cpportuitlos.
101 Ee_d on 4.5 psr... per fidly.



- 86 -
Arex 3
CHtNA                                      TabLe 3.5
HUMAN AGRICULTURAL DOVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent nd Coat Recovery
....................................................................................................
YVOS        Well     Drainsge       Flood       Total
Aroma     Irrfgstfon                Control
0326,000)   (166,000)   (90,000)    (28,000)    (630,000)
....................................................................................................
tY'OOO)
At Full Development
tneremontal Incmeo   a                     436,796     170,748       69,390      34,010      712,954
Lesst
Imputed Value, Family Labor b/               4,49"       40,846      22,60       7,t62      155,736
Imputed Value,  anagmewnt lervices n /      43, U0      17075         6, 939      3,402      7t,2m
Imputed Return to Own Capital d/            21,940       8,537        3,470       1,701       35,648
Allowanco for Risk/Uncertainty o/           43,660       17.075      6o,99         3,402      71,9M
Subtotal                                 194,198      63.533       40,028      16,267      334,025
Equals:
Project Rent                               24,598        67,215      89,363       17,753     378,929
ProJect Charlon
Water Cherges o/                          37,164       21,204      10,260       3,192       71,820
Taxes f/                                  25,231       9,318 6      3990        1,9S6       40,995
Total Charges                             62,395      31,022       14,250       5,148      112,815
Rent Recovery Index (K) g                       26%          364         498          29K         30X
Durlng Project's Lffe h/
Project Rent                               925,234     425,733        41056       66516   1,350,967
Project Charges
Taxes f/                                  53,201      24,460        2,361       3,825       77.681
Water Charges                            138,362       29,750      10,416      12,648      168111
Interest  nd Loan Repsysant I/            78,713      16 924        5,926       7,1        95,637
Total Cherges                            270,275      71,153       186703      23,666      341,429
Rent Recovery tndsx C) /                          29X          17X         46K          36X         25S
Project Costs J/                             307,472       66,111      23,147      28,107      373,53
Cost Recovery Index (K) k/                        63          10O         s1X          U4X         91X
....................................................................................................
a/ Based en the incr~emntal Incoom of farm feiltles In the form modtl nalyIscs
before deiducting project charges and debt service.
b/ Based an Incremental labor valued at 60X of the eroket wage.
a/ Ten percent of Incremental lncom.
dV Five percent of net incrementol income.
o/ Based en Y.02/cu meter.
ft 5.7nx for crop and livestock.
g/ Project charges as a percentage of project rent.
hl Expreesed as present values wovr 20-year project litf, discounted at 12K.
1/ On-lnd1ng rates for agriculture at 10.K Xonnualy.
J/ Total project coats excluding formr labor eontribution, coats of support
services (repaid from servioo fee).
k/ Project chargue as a percentage of projet cost.



- 87 -
Annex 3
Tabl-  4.21
CHIN
HUMAN AGRICULTURAL MVELOPHINT PROJICT
Anlatl Husbrdry Cowponent
Ineremental Production of Livestock, Foed and Llvestock By-Prodats
............                                       .          ... ....................
Product                          Quantity   Without  .........................W.th               Proe. . . ....
Marketed   ProJect
Unit   Year 0 \a   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year I Yer 64-20
UUeUUUUUs UU"NUSUU UU IUIUUUSAUSUUU  UUUUUU eu..       ese  ..u_ANINu   _ _IN
Cultivated Land
sheep Production Household          d          300        500    1000      1,So0      1,Soo     1,100    10oo
Cattle Produetlon Households       He          200      1,000     2,000    3.000      3,000      3,000    3,000
Altfaltf Crop Houaeholda           He            0      2,000    4,000      6,000     6,000      6,000     *,000
Total Land                          He          500      3,500     7,000    10.500    10,500    10,500    10,100
Livestock Marketed
mutton Sheep                     000 hd        3.8        2.4      18.9      35.4       49.4      49.4      49.4
Hide Goats                       000 hd       16.8        7.4      91.9    131.8       139.5     141.3    141.3
Beef Cattle                      000 hd        0.1        1.5      17.3      16.0      22.5       22.5      22.5
Leon Pigs, So                    000 hd        0.0        1.3       5.7      11.7      16.4       18.0      18.0
Leon Pigs, Coamrcial             000 hd        0.0        2.6      10.8      23.1      33.4       38.1     36.7
Broilers                         000 hd        0.0      840.0  3,500.0  5,250.0   5,250.0   5,250.0  5,250.0
Livestock Products
Mutton                             ton        13.8       12.4    172.5    480.7    670.0    670.0    670.0
Goat Hides                        '000        18.8        7.4      91.9    131.8    139.5    141.3    141.3
Cattte Hides                       '000        0.1        1.5      17.3      16.0       22.5      22.5      22.5
Seef                               ton        39.6      275.0  3,016.5  3,240.0   4,050.0  4,050.0  4,050.0
Pork
Commercsal Farm                   ton         0.0      246.5  1,043.4   223M.8   3,735.7  3,735.7  3,735.7
Speciailzed Households            ton         0.0       32.7    217.8    247.5    247.5    247.5    247.5
Broiler Meat                       ton         0.0    1,386.0  4,273.5   7,161.0  8,662.5  6,66.    8,662.5
Goat Meat                          ton       470.0       60.0    957.0   1,412.0   1,520.0   1,546.0  1,54.0
Manure Genersted
Goats                            000 ton      60.8        8.8     108.9    150.4    152.6    153.2    153.2
Broflers                         000 ton       0.0        1.4       9.6      23.4      27.0       27.0      27.0
Cattle                           000 ton       5.3        55.4    163.7     2.8    370.7    397.7    406.0
Pigs, Households                 000 ton       0.0        0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1      0.1
Pigs, Ferm                       000 ton       0.0        5.4       9.1       9.1       9.1       9.1       9.1
Sheep                            000 ton      10.0        2.9      42.2    119.7    171.1    172.2    172.2
Total Manure                      000 ton      76.1       74.3    333.5    593.4    730.7    759.2    767.5
Cowpound Feed Production
Broilers                         000 ton       0.0        6.6      1S.8      25.1      27.8       2H.8     27.8
Cattle                           000 ton       0.0        1.3       2.6       4.3       5.0        5.8       6.2
Goats                            000 ton       0.0        0.2       1.4       2.6       3.3       3.3        3.3
Pig Farms                        000 ton       0.0        6.0      11.9      16.4      18.1       18.1      18.2
Pig SHs                          000 ton       0.0        0.1       0.6       1.4       2.1        2.3      2.3
sheep                            000 ton       0.0        0.9       6.2      11.5      15.8       15.8      15.8
Totat Fed                         000 ton       0.0       15.0      38.6      61.2      72.0       73.0     ?3.6
Forage Production \b
Altfsfa Hay                      000 ton       0.0        5.9      27.0      54.6       71.4      71.4      71.4
Corn Stover                      000 ton       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      4.0
Peanut Hay                       000 ton       0.7        3.8       5.8        7.3      4.0        3.7       2.2
Winter Wheat                     000 ton       4.0       19.3      27.2      34.2       15.8      19.3      23.6
Peanuts                          000 ton       0.5        2.8       4.3       5.4       2.9        2.7      3.6
Corn                             000 ton       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.9       1.9
Total Forages                     000 ton       4.8       Zw.9      60.0      96.1      91.2       94.4    101.2
Total Corn Grain, Peawuts         000 ton       0.6        2.8       4.3       5.4       2.9        3.6      5.5
.................................................................................................................
a  Numner of households at Year 0 taken as identical nmure participeting at Year 6.
\b From owned forage lend.



- 88 -
Annex 3
Table 4.2
RIXAGARI        APIK  PROJECT
Anlmal Husbandry Component
Employment end Incomes of Particlpatlng Farms and Households
Per Entlro
Per Farm or Household      :Livestock Component
Sub-      Households Farms  Employment Incomes  Return to: Employment Incomes
Component                                    1/   Labour
No.    No.    p-day       Yuan      Yuan       p-yr   Yuan 000
Cattle            3,000  0        140    2,876.4     20.5        1151    8,629.2
Sheep             1,500  0        180    1,101.0      4.7         740    1,651.5
Goats             4,000  0        15O      936.0      6.2        1644    3,744.0
Pigs, SH            300  0        120    1,737.5     13.5          99      521.3
Pigs, Farms         210  6      89425    1,400.0      4.7        1470    8,400.0
Broilers          2,100  0        180    1,734.2      9.6        1036    3,641.8
Alfalfa            1,200  0       600    5,791.0       9.7       1973    6,949.2
Broiler Processing  350  7        300    1,320.0      4.4         288      462.0
Total Component Employment                                      8,399        -
Total Component Income                                             -    33,999.0
Labour Input by Women a/
Sheep                                                             370      825.8
Goats                                                             822    1,872.0
Pigs, SH                                                           25      130.3
Broilers                                                          777    2,731.4
Broiler Processing                                                216      346.5
Total Component Employment                                      2,209        -
Total Assisted Component Earnings                                        5,905.9
1/ Net incomes after financing; average over 20 years.
2/ Assumed labour input of 50X for sheep and goats, 75 for
broilers and processlng, and 25 for plg raising.



-89 -                                               Annex 3
Table 6
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL O E LOPHENT PROJECT
Main Conversion Factors Used
............................................................................
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                     0.95
Nachinery/Equipment b/                                             1.50
Energy - Coal c/                                                  2.12
CoGsoline                                                 1.55
- Dieset                                                   1.13
-Electrieity                                               5.00
Trenspot - Road                                                   1.10
- Rail                                                  4.00
Cument                                                            3.53
Steet                                                             2.19
Labor - Unskilled                                                 0.o4
- Skilled                                                   1.51
- Management                                                2.00
- Technical                                                 2.00
Other Non-Traded Goods                                            0.90
Earthworks - AquacuLture                                          0.84
- Irrigation                                          0.79
Structures                                                        1.02
............................................................................
a/ SCF *COffciatl Exchange Rate)/(Shao&w Exchange rate ) * 5.2/5.5
b/ Based on conversion factor of 1.0 for Imports under IC and 1.5 for
locally made mchinery  nd equfpment.
c/ The other conversion factors are based on The ItRO s Economic Prieso
for Project Evaluation in Chine. January 23. 1990 nd actual financiel
priees prevailing in Henan Province.



- 90 -
Annex  3
CHINA                                       T    -ble  7.1
HNMAN AGRICULTURAL MVELOPHENT PROJECT
Border Prices for Prfncipal Products s. Inputs (1990 Constant Prlosu) e/
Cotton RIoo/
Whset     Corn    I nt  Peddy Peanut b/ Soybean   Ura   TIP    DAP
........................................................................................................
Not Tradeo tatus                    N        X       X       N         X          X       M       N      N
1990OPrIcos
World Market PrioesiUSS/t)           164     100    1600     2S5         25S      270     125    140    160
Ocan FreighticUSI/t)                  45      22      a4 44               25       25      34    34      34
CIF/F0O Ltanyumgens (US$/t)           229      76    1716    329         233       245     159    174    194
CIF/FOl Lianyungeng CYuen/t) o/      1191     406    ;131   1711        1212      1274      27   905   1009
Port Charges and
Distributors$ Margin d/             1:2      62     647     179         134      140      9     106    116
Transport:Port to Wholtealers of       60      60      60      60         60       60       60    60    Cil
*Mftt to Wholesters f/        11      11      11      11         11       11      11    11    I1
Ex Facto7v Pr1i                      1394     273    6213    1961        1007     1063     997   1062   1196
Processing Adjustment                                         70X
Processing Costa                                       60      s0
By-product values                      70      26     536      44         117      340       0      0      0
MIll gate Volue                      1464     299   8669    1367        1124      1203     997   1082   1196
Transport- Form to M1ll g/              4       4       4       4          4         4       4      4      4
Economl  Formgate Price             1460     m       M6S5   1362        1119     119      993   1078   1191
Financial Formgate Price h/           673     620    6500     879       1200     1292    1200   1600   1600
2000 Prices
...........
World Market Prices:CUSS/t) a/        163     106    1574    239         230       216     180    203    269
Ocean Freight:(USS/t)                  45      22      44      44         25        25      34     34     34
CIF/FOB Lianyungong (USS/t)           208      84    14S1     283        205       191     214    237    303
CIF/FOB Lianyunggng tYuan/t) cl      1082     437   7547    147n        1066       99    1113   1232   1576
Port Charges and
Distributors' Margin d/             122      64     704     157         121      114     125    136    167
Transport-Port to Wholesalers e/       60      60      60      60         60       60      60     60      60
-MilL to Wholesalers f/       11      11      11      11         11       11      11    11    11
Ex Factory Price                     1275     301    67M     1700         674     808    1309   1439   1813
Processing Adjustment                                         70X
Processing Costs                                       60      50
By-product values                      70      26     536      44         117      140       0      0      0
Mill gate .alue                      1345     327    n48    1184         "1        948    1309   1439   1813
Transport- Farm to MNill /              4       4       4       4          4        4        4      4      4
Economic Farmgcte Price              1341     323    7243    1160        967       943    1305   1435   1809
Financial Farmgate Price h/           673     620    6500     879       1200      1292    1200   1600   1800
...................................................................................................
a/ Based on World Bank Commodity Price Forcasts, January 22. 1990 adjusted to 1990 constant price.
b/ Based on projected price of peanut oil  nd meal, assuming that a ton of unshel ed
peanuts yield 0.25 ton of oil and 0.45 ton of meal.
c/ Exchange rate of Y52 a USS1.
d/ Port charges of Y25/t plus 9% distributor's margin.
/ Distaxce from Wholesalers to port Is approxlmately 600 km from the Zhengzhou to L1anyunyang 1n Jiangsu
Province by rail at YO.025/ton/km adjusted by 4.0 CF.
f/ Distance from Mill to Wholesalers 1s approximately 50 kg by road at Y.02/t/km, adjusted by CF of 1.1.
g/ Distance from farm to mill is 20 km on averege by road at Y.02/t/km, adjusted by CF of 1.1.
h/ Based on wulghted average of 1990 contract, negotiated and market price In Henan.



- 91 -
Annex 3
CHINA                                                   Ta blo  7.2
HENAN AGRICULTURAL OEVILOPMUNT PROJgCT
Border Prices for Livestook Prouct, oats, Paper and Ped
Cfn 1990 Constant Term)
.............................................................................................................................
Kraft    Writin     Pflh  Soyben  Peanut
Beef t/ Lub b/ Wool c/ Pork d/ Dates eo Poper tl Paper  Nostl W Neal o/ Neal l/
...........................................................                                           . ....          ... ......
Not Trade Statue                      X          X         N          X                  N          N        N        K       X
1"0 Prices
...........
World Market Prioess(US#/t)           2,600      2,700      3,40    2 600    1,200                             473     240      19n
Prtces after Gualtty Discount h/    1950         1,350      1,396    2.060
Ocean FrefohtsCUSS/0t                    250       125         50       60        25                            so      30       30
CIF/FOB Ltanyui  no  CUS#/t)          1.700      1,225      1,446    2.020    1 171        760        797      503     210      165
ClF/FOS Lanyunang CYuant) I/          6,640      6,370      7,519   10#504    6,110      4,056      4,14    2,616   1,092      U61
Port Charges nd
Distributors' Morgin J/               621        596        702      970       575       390        396     260      123      102
Transport-Port to Wholecslers k/         60         60         60       60        60        60         60       60      60       60
*Proocesors to Wholealers L/          17         1T         M1       17        11        11         11      11       11      11
Ex Factory Price                      9,737 5n69            6,292    9,457    5,44       4,517      4,613   2,947      6       665
Proessings Adjustment (X)                50         55         60       60        50
Value after Adjustment                48669      3,132      4975    5,674    2,732
By-product values                       220        339         20        0         0
Processing Plant gate Vatue           5.069      3,471     4,9       5,674    2.732      4,517      4,613   2,947      "96     665
Tronsport- Farm to Plont /                7          7          4        7         4         4          4        4       4        4
Economie farmoste Prfee               5,082      3,46 4U99 5° 666    2r726               4,513      4,609   2,95       6n93    680
Pinaciatl Formgate prfce              3,600      3,300     6,000    5,500    2,000       4,320      4.390   3,500   1.140      7oo
2000 Prices
.... .......
World Market Prices:CUSS/t)           2,6s6      1,?71      2,551    2,700       964                          473      165      157
Prices after Quaifty Discount h/    2,165          886      1,020    2,160
ocean Freight:CUSS/t)                   250        125         50       60        25                           30       30      30
CtF/fOB Lianyungeng CUBS/t)           1,915        761      1,070    2,100       959       656        787     503      135    1U7
CIF/FOB Llanyungang CYuan/t) 1/       1,998      3,955      5,566   10,920    4,987      3,411      4,092   2,616      702     660
Port Charges and
Distributors' Margin J/               835        381        526    1,006       474       332       .393     260       8s      84
Tronsport-Port to Wholeslers k/          60         60         60       60        60        60         60      60       60      60
-Processors to WholesaLers t/         17         17         11       17        11        11         11      11       11      11
Ex Factory Prfee                      9,909      3,497     6,163    9,836    4,442       3,814      4,557   2,947      543     505
Processing Adjustment                    50         55         60       60        50
Processing Costs                      4.955      1,923     3,696    5,901    2.221
By-product values                       220        339         20        0         0
Mill gats Value                       5,175      2,262      3,718    5,901    2,221      3,814      4.557   2.947      543      505
Transport- Farm to  ilL m                 7          7          4        7         4         4          4       4        4       4
Economic Furmgste Price               5,168      2,56      3,713    5,695    2,217      3,610      4,552   2,9"5      536     501
Financial Farmgate Price              3,600      3,300     6,000    5,500    2,000       4,320      4,390   3,500   1,140      700
..................................... I......................................................................................
a/ Based on World Senk Connodfty Priee Forrasts, January 22, 1990, adjusted to 1990 constant prIces.
b/ Based on World Bank Commodity data, December 17, 1990.
c/ Dominia.. Crossbred, 56's, eleen Ctf U.K., adjusted for 1990 price.
d/ Based on prices of pork in Hongkong.
a.' Prfces received by FTC in 1969, adjusted to 1990 level. For year 2000 assuma that price witt reduced by 10X.
f/ Based on 1989 cIf price of 00 g kraft paper lmported from Japan.
g/ Based on 1989 60 gram  peial class paper exported to Japan.
h/ Prices are adjusted for quality; beef 251. Lada 50X, wool 60X and pork 201.
lX Exchange rate of Y5.2 a USS1.
J/ Port charges of Ya5/t plus 9X distributor's margin.
k/ Distance from wholesalers to part ic approximately 600 km from Zhwngzhou to Lianyungans In Jisngsu
Province by rail at YO.025/ton/km adjusted by 4.0 CF.
LI Distance from Processing Plants to Wholesalers fs approxlmtely 50 kI by road at Y.03/tiVks
for meat and aquatic products, and Y.02/t/km for others, adjusted by CF of 1.1.
ml Distance from form  to processing plants io 20 km on average by road at Y.03/t/ks, adjusted
by CF of 1.1.



- 92 -
Amnex 3
Table 7.3
CHtm
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DOVELOPNENT PROJECT
Fish Foed Prfces
..............................................................................
Itoo                    Comp-      Unit Price/Ton            Peed Cost/ton
sitfon  ......--  --.................. . . ...... .......
x    Ffnanccal *V  Economic   Financitl  Economic
..............................................................................
Fish Neal                    14       3,500    2,950 b/       473.0       398.6
Soybean Cake                 23       1,140        90 c/      256.6       200.5
Wheat gran                   18          580      550 dV      104.5         99.1
Poppl Seed Cake              14         680       650 d/       91.9         67.8
Cotton Seed Cako             17         680       650 di      116.4        111.3
Poenut Cake                   5         680       680 c/       30.6         30.6
Course Flour                  9         720       680 d/       64.9        61.3
Amino Acid Additives          2       2,300    2.200 d/        41.4         39.6
Total                    100                             1,179.5     1,028.8
Nitting Costs, sacks&
materfals                                                  140.0        133.0
Labor                                                          50.0        32.0
Overhead Costs                                                 50.0         75.5
Feed Cost per ton                                           1,419.5     1,269.3
..............................................................................
s/ Based on fish foed foriwts proposed to be used in the project are" and
prevfiLing costs of ingredients.
b/ Based on DOceubr, 1990 fisshmeat exported prico (fob Chilo) of USS473/ton.
c/ Based on World Bank Camwdity Price Projection, Dce ber 1990.
d/ Corwerslon factor for non-traded goods of .95 appiLed to the financiaL price.



CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Economic Prices of Fruits
Apples    Apricot      Plum    Grape Pomegranate
1990 Market Prices (Y/ton)         1,1S0     1,200      1,250    1,500      2,000
-Transport from Wholesalers 1/        40        40         40       40         40
-Handling costs                       12        12         15       20         12
-Market Costs                         15        1S         15        9          9
-Retail Margin 2/                    115       120        125      348        348
Wholesale Value (Y/ton)            968     1,013      1;055    1,083      1,591
-Transport from Farms 3/              80        80         80      120         80
-Handling Costs                       14        14         17       20          6
-Losses 4/                            48        51         53       54        144
-Wholesale Margin                     68        71         74       76        111
Economic Prices (Y/ton)              758       797        831      813      1,250
Financial Prices                     800     1,000      1,000    1,000      1,800
1/ Transport from wholesale markets to retail markets on average of S0 km at YO.2/t/km,
adjusted by 4 of rail transportation converelon factor to derive economic prices.
2/ Retail margin of 10%.
3/ Transport costs from farms to markets 100 km on average, adjusted by 4 of
rail transportation factor to derive economic prices.
4/ 5% spoilage.
I!
4S[



- 94 -
Annex 3
CHINA                                 Table 8.1
HENAN AGRICULTUPAL DUVZLOPMZNT PROJECT
PrLces of Crops and By-Products
Prices                    Weighted By-Product
Crops                        -------------------------           Average   Prlces
State      Negotiated      Market        Prlces
(Y/ton)                               (Y/ton)
Paddy                     444   0%       734  80%      889  20%      679         55
Wheat                      514  60%      893  30%      963  10%      673         70
Corn                       354  10%      636  60%      679  30%      620         13
Soybean                   900  10%    1,272  60%   1,372  30%   1,292            40..
Rapyesed                1,408   0%    1,S00  20%   1,500  S0o   1,500            20
Cotton Seed                460  20%                    668  60       650.         -
Sesame                  2,310   0%    3,920  70%   4,157  30%   4,000            55
Cotton Lint             6,000 100%                                 6,000         60
Dogbane                      0   0%    1,660 100%                  1,660          -
Sources HRnan Prlce Bureau.



-95                                 Annex 3
Table 8.2
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Husbandry Component
Commodity Prices Used in Animal Husbandry Component
Commodity             Unit   Unit Cost  Commodity              Unit  Unit Cost
(Yuan)                                  (Yuan)
Feeds                                    Livestock
Alfalfa Hay            ton    300.0       Breeding Boar           hd    800.0
Ammoniated Straw       ton    163.0       Breeding Gilt           hd    800.0
Broiler Feod           ton    974.0       Breeding Goats          hd     52.5
Broiler Crower Feed    ton   1200.0       Breeding Heifers        hd    900.0
Broiler Starter Feed   ton   1300.0       Broiler Chicks          hd      1.8
Cattle Concentrate     ton    653.4       Broiler Meat,processed  kg      7.2
Corn grain             ton    S80.0       Broilers,live,finished  kg      5.3
Corn Stover            ton     20.0       Culled Boar             kg      0.4
Goat Concentrate       ton    660.0       Culled Bull             kg      3.6
Goat Forage            ton      20.0      Culled Cow              kg      3.0
Grass, fresh           ton     40.0       Culled Ewes             kg      3.3
Lactating Sow Feed     ton    762.0       Culled Goats            hd     73.5
Peanut Hay             ton     64.0       Culled Sow              kg.     1.3
Peanuts                ton   1800.0       Finished Heifer         kg      3.6
Pig Grower Feed        ton    785.0       Finished Lambs          kg      3.3
Piglet Starter         ton    958.0       Finished Steer          kg      3.6
Sheep Concentrate      ton    660.0      Market Pig, Hongkong    kg       5.5
Sow/Boar Feed          ton    740.0      Market Pig, local        kg      5.0
Weaner Pig Feed        ton    825.0       Market Goat             kg      2.6
Winter Wheat           ton      75.0      Replacement Does,Pregna hd    100.0
Replacement Ewe         hd    132.0
Sheep Wool              kg      6.0
Seeds                                     Weaner Pig, 25 kg        hd    150.0
Alfalfa                kg       4.0
Corn                   kg       1.6    Milaaneous
Peanut                 kg       1.2       Breeding Fee, Cows      hd      5.0
Wheat                  kg        2.4      Breeding Fee, Goat      hd      5.0
Breeding Fee, Sheep     hd      5.0
Fertilizer                                 Draught Power          day      5.0
N Fertilizer          ton    1200.0       Health Cost, Broiler    hd      0.2
P Fertilizer          ton    1800.0      Health Cost, Cattle      hd      5.0
Health Cost, SH Pig     hd      4.0
Health Cost, Sheep      hd      2.0
Health Costs, Pig       hd      3.0
Insecticide            ton     30.0
Labour                 m-d      4.0
Labour                 m-y   1200.0
Manure                 ton     20.0
Mechanical Tilling pass/ha     75.0



Annex a
Table 8.3
- 96 -
CH
VEJAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELO ENT PROJECT
Agro-Processing and Industry
Production Output and Prices
Plant                           Product                Volume            Price
(ton/year)        (Yuan/t)
Seed Center                  Wheat                     16,000           1,550
Hybrid Paddy               2,600          2,440
Hybrid Corn                8,000          2,440
Soybean                    2,400          1,950
Weraxian Fructose Plant      Fructose syrup            10,000           2,36C
Corn oil                     330          4,600
Corn pulp                  1,886          1,000
Protein powder             1,088            640
Puyan Gibberellin Plant      Gibberellin powder           6.5           2,200/kg
Gibberellin emulsion        87.5             88/kg
Filtrate                   1,200            400/ton
Wuzhi Dogbane Project        Kraft paper               15,000           3,800
Changyuan Papermill          Writing paper             10.000           4,500
Yuanyang'Coldstore           Summer apples early          194           1,300
Summer apples red             97          1,500
Autumn apples                388          2,000
Apricots                      34          1,400
Oranges                       97          1,800
Tomato                        68          1,100
Green peppers                 97          1,800
Garlic stalks                194          1,800
Beef                         388          6,000
Pork                         291          4,400
Tornxu Coldstore             Summer apples                194           1,200
Autumn apples                388          2,000
Green peppers                194          1,800
Garlic stalks                388          1,600
Beef                         340          6,000
Mutton                       194          6,000
Pork                         592          4,500
Wuzhi Coldstore              Beef                         911           6,000
Mutton                       646          6,600
Chicken                      358          6,000
Pork                         995          4,500



* 97 -
Annex 3
Table 8.4.1
CNINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Drainage Component
Summary of Financial Analysis
Annual
Items                              Not Return          PRR       NPV at 12%
(Y'000)         C           (Y'000)
Crops
Zhaokou YRDS Area                     109,342           30.1        292,011
Xiangfuzbu YRDS Area                   29,873           30.1         80,S7S
Shitouzhuang YRDS Area                 21,959           33.6         64,586
Qucun YRDS Area                        43,579           29.6        116,238
Groundwater Development Area           66,520           39.0        205,634
Donsha He River Regulation Area        14,169           29.5         44,006
Yu-Xia-Yong Drainage Area              10,628           24.6         24,395
Total Crops                         307,697           .2.3        872,662
- ---  - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



MIMI AnIIPA   VLW              IC
IrrIgtIm  a _taIng. Cwq'uI  -  mr tta bles  Ret..
Pn        m         mI      P       n4       m MG     n1                       nto 9    file  "II    P   P13              nu14     n t        16 "u    7    nu        Pnts    PM2
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
t-45I t-4rU 6                                U       2 ,    S
ausekm  $*me               u.uaa   ",m    U.s13ap 9m          a,s
gIuslosh" Sg_             U4,      10,646   0,6941   11,45    5,734
_mm khm                    2'3,"9  1ir2   1S.462  1U2365    S,99
6rt    6ws1_               21.1    23,956  13., t116   U.1    6,16
x-1 v -' stalg              ?.us   5.11    I,m3    S.6tS    2.561
................................
S l                     U4,65  two9s5   "O,2   7,42   3,
Utt-be taf
Zbee&in            _               SAW   21.16  31.421  4.16   45,419  4S.4t9  45.419  45.4t9  45.419  4S.419  45419  45.419  45.41t  45,9  45,419  45,419  45.419  45.419  45.419    5.419
U3arqf.abs                     6   3.246   51        GS   12.141  14.163   14.053  1U.103  14,053  14,03   14,055  U1.S3  14u,53   U,03               1 ,   14,53   11.053  14,653   14.053   14.o5   14.053
_   2.291    4,50    6.*       *.36   9.4"      9,460    9,41    9,401   96"l    9601   9.*61   *            t6   9*601   9,"41    9,601   9.401   94 61   9.41&   9461   9,401
oucuwk0   4*311?2  *,164  14,461   11,13   17,065  14063 1e,13   17,13   17.163   Il.W3  17.063  11,643   17,043   17,143  17.e63  171,43   17.043   I7.043   11,643   10S4o
C,aa_tw                        e   1S.64A  26.621  36.216  49.967  51.339  57ST.39  5339  57.39 s 57.339  S7,3s   51.339   57.339  57,339   S7,339  S7.339 s7.3N9   s7.3    S7,339  57.339   S1.339
TiwUIe-1u3 stlng.p             6   3.1199   4,312   9.464i  12.174   5.4664  15,066   15.666  15.066' 13,66   13,044   35,046  I5%046  15,046   15,046   is.04"   15,04       ls6 504    1.046   23.046   13,046
VAq au us                        2,2916   3,114   3,835S   3.014    3,864    3,6844   3.644   3,644   3,644   3,644   3.644   3.144    3.644    3,614    3.644   3,114    3.6WA4     3.644   3.6144    3,644
..............^*........................**os^.   e@ o*..........................................................................................................................................
6   3,62m    74.561  1216,459  14,96  16    2.365 6U, 345 ,3S   42.35  642.30 11263   5 3 12,34   t2.36S  1642,365  162,365  IO2Z365  142,345  162.365  162,365  142,36   162.365
t 6   3,331   9.m    17,6    p.2    29,27* 2a,511  26sy1   esly  26,51s   26,5s1   26.517  26,5s    20.517   25,1s7   26,517  20.517  2.51r  29,517   26,s17   26,S17
El  .fi_                       6    1,462   234,     S" 3,74  3,91    6.017   6,617   6,917   6,617   6,617   6,011   6.617   4.*17   6,617   6,61r   4.617   4.617   6,617   4,617   6,027    6.01?
*itsaudm_                      S     A"     1,99   2,952    3,        4,209   4.2D    4.209   4,2W9   4,209   4,29   4.209   4.*29   4.69    4,269   4,269   4,209   42019   4.209   4,269   4. ?0
SIACM                          0    1,1    3.952   6,416    1,45      7.49   7,65       ?,s49   7,65      ,5      7.659   7.4s9   7,5       7.s9    7,459    7.9    7,69    7,65 TS    7w9 7,s59    7.659    7.6s9
swarmerw                       S   5,64 sw   U."?  1.912  19*,62    9,"62   ".6u2    9."2   19,612   19,82   1982   19,642                    199,2    9.62   19,42   19,"2   19.6u2   "962   "912   19,62
1-31 na r   tat-g              0     S26   1,619   1.6S3   2,017   2,66        2.605   2,465   2         2,46     2,60    2,465   4405    2,405    2,605   2,605   2,605   2,65   2,405   2,465    2,0S
StugS"b                        6      496      6       8          7       7      67       sr7     17         7      8a7     au7      a7       67      as7       "7      67       U6      l        s        Kr 
.............................................................................................................................................................................................
S   13,406  21,6:  4s.,7     55ss, 6r,76  61,736  61,736  62,73   61,7 6 61,6                 6 ,7 1,   4736  61     ,73 6  41, 134  41,4n   6,7    6t,736  41,74  4 1,734            OD
G  met                        6  151,639  16,4   16S, 1,2  262,45  2416  224m1161 2t4,11 226,11   4j,1    24.1  M,.101 224,1tn  224,11  2U4.151 m224,1   224,6t  221,161                 224.101 26  2nm,101
inteal e                  14,S5  U,29   9S,2M   26,54   233,527 226.    22,1 6   224,201 221,101  224,101 224.161 224,161  2M. lt1  224,101  224,101  Z24,16    6,1   221,16   22,6             4,6   224.101
66aet-a                        6   4,155   19.241   46,25  119,162 1143,6  147,411  s1,2m    1,27m    1,27m 6115,271  115,271  115.278 61521 1211 ,26  115,276  115.2   115.271  115,278  115.278  175,213
36u.gftel                      S   2,643   s5439   11,442 26 44   37,6    43,953  47,3     47,3    47,396  47.396  47.396  47,3"    47.394   47,396  47,396  47,394  47,396   47,396  47,396  4,396
Shl._udw"                      S   2,456   5,66    12,696  33,342  4,816  S6.4    49.943  49.943  49.943  49.943  49.943  49.943  49.943   49.963  49.943  49.S3  49.943  49.945  49.943   49.943
am,              uS   4,616   16,126  24,4    49,431  55,312  466.                      a6,261  46,286  46,261   6.26l   6.261  46.261  46261   63,28l  4.262   ".281  46261  46,261  46.211   6.281
omu_ter                        6   26,40  31,1m2   SS,206  16,6 463  12,4l 134,s57  1437,11  143,76  143u    1  143,701  w43,761 143,e13  143,701  143,13 1  3m 13,1         14301  1  43,13 13 1,7881  14m5.761
1Tu-1.16 Stat-us              S   2,416   6,34s   13,647  29018  299  21.299  26,299  26,299  23,299  26,299  21.299  262919  26,299   26,299  26,299  26,.299  26,9    28,29    2S62                  26,299
sw  esm                        6   4,49     6,319  11,414  16,915   6696   1161,960  IS.".  1.96   ¶2,166   18,906   16,909   16,96,s      161u,996   16u,966   I1180         18.9u6 6,we   u,w0   16,906  16.969
a.st    n           e N "7,S          A     64,46  169,211  367,t67 45S,993 566,446  s31,91 531161 531,7ff 531,796 53M,     531,96  531.79  s31,             M 531,7ff 5s31,79  531,2    s31,796  S31,29  s53,29
ed _I 1ts                (t 5,l55241,5U)SX1,) I. ,)(5,3   33,5262,2  2M,559  307,6     W,97   ,                   3 ,9  379  3."7 37 7  w,                    7,6    30,6  307,9    7,            367,69  37,4
t          nte t a.       872,422
1U                          32.326
. .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
..
a%



- 99 -
Annex 3
Table 8.4.3
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
tOrchard Development Sub-component
Summary of Financial Analysis 1/
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Anhual
Items                                 Not Return           FRM        NPV at 12%
(Yuan)           %            (Y'000)
Windbreak 2/                               4,890            17.0             322
Wickers                                    3,313            27.0             860
Date Rehabilitation                        2,020            47.0.          7,435
Pomegranate                               22,990            53.0          75,411
Apples                                    13,134            44.0          44,514
Apricot                                   10,996            41.0          33,145
Grape                                     18,409            38.0          56,902
Plums                                     11,117            40.0          33,065
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
1/ Based on one hectare model.
2/ Cleared cut at year 15.



100 -                          Annex 3
Table 8.4.4
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Component
sumary of Financial Analysis
Financial Rates of Return
---------------------------_---------------
Not                  Feed   Output       Changes
Present       Base   Price    Price      in Other
Subeomponent            Value         Case   +10%       -10%   Factors a/
Cattle                  11,513          31       29       25            -
Sheep                  .11,231          50       43       43
Goats                    5,423          69       62       55            -
Pigs, Specialized Ml    2,929           26        8       -8           -9
Pigs-Farms               5,050          32      25        22            -
BroLlers                 8,773          52        9       13           36
Alfalfa                  6,039         230        -        -            -
BroLler Processing                      39        -        5            5
a/ other factorcs    Plg s3 - Weaned plg transfer price reduced by 10%.
Pig Farms - Export prLce Lncreased by 10%
Pig 83 - Weaner pig transfer price Lnereasd by 10%
Broiler SB - Day-old chick price Lncreased by 10%.
BroLler Processing - BroLler purchase price
inereased by S%.



- 101 -
AM= 3
b o
CHINA
HUM  AGRICULTURL oMLOP9eNT PROJECT
Aqueculture Ccmanhnt
sury of Fln1eLt Aluysts
............................ .... ....... ........................................................
Amust
Items                                 Nt Return           FPE         WV at 12X
CT'000)          I            (T000O)
1. Ffsh Pands
..........
XInxlrn  NimcipetLty                        4,037          34.00          16,754
Jlmozuo Nwdclpetfty                        3,34.           26.90          11,1S5
thaqul Prefecture                          2M9             32.60          12,576
Puy&u  Nunfelpetty                          1,741          36.00           7.995
2. Hatcheries
_..........
Xtnxfan  Nmiclplity                          100          34.90             497
JR ozuo  inaelpatety                           a           12.20               6
Sherquf Prefecture                             93          24.50             334
Puyw4 NuwncIpetfty                             93          19.00              221
3. Fee Nitls
........... ........... 
Xlnxleu  NumIcfpstfty                         215          39.50            1,156
Jisozuo  iudcfpeltty                          209          35.10           1.047
Shwtqu   Prefecture                           122          23.S0             523
Puyw l MdctpeOty                               71          22.50             227
.............................................................................



- 102 -
Annex 3
Tabte 8.4.6
CHINA
HNIUM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agrofndustry C     ~ont
Su3iry of FInanial Analstls
NPV at 12X     FRR 0         FAR a    Sal. Prfc.
AgroIndustrfal  Plants           (Y'000)   lOOX Capcity 80X Capacity    -10X
.................................................................................
WUwian Fructoso Plant               22,820     23.8          16.?         16.2
PuyuW  Gibbenrllfn Plant            16,890     24.2          17.9         12.3
Wuzhl Dogban  Craft Pwrp ttll       60,150     26.0          20.3         21.7
Chwuun Papeirmll                    50,010     28.5          21.9         21.6
Yuanyan  Coldstorm                   1,890     21.3          15.3         15.3
Tongxu Coldstore                     2,020     21.2          13.9         13.7
Wuzhi Coldstor*                      3.720     22.9          15.7          8.7
, ~~.......... ...............................................



- 103 -
A-x 3
CHINA
HOMAN AGRICULTURAL DUVULO HENM PROJECT
Sumary of Eoonaoc Anetyus 
................  ...............4..... 6. ..... 0* .........
Annual.                NPV              loonomi
Cowponents                    Inc. Net Return            S 12X       Note of Return
........... 0..........       .0........ 0 ...0..  0  ......O..  ...O.
(Y1000)             cv'000)
1. Crop,
-Zhoukou YROS Area                   159 295              474                 34.6
O w un YROS Area                      61.969              190,363              36.7
-Xiangfuzhu YRDS Area                 46 50               143 979             37.0
.Shitouzhuang YOS Area                34,781              116,156              42.4
-Groundwater Area                    120 902              425 733              49.7
-Yu-Xio-Yong Oratnag. Ares            16,S1?               41,056              26.9
*Dongshe He Area                      21,105               66,51               29.S
Total Crop Cmponent                461.416            1 ,f7,279              36.4
2. Fruit and Tre  Crope               96,542              266,249              36.r
3. Litvestock Compon nt
Seef                                 10,480               29,013              27.6
-sheep                                 1 896                5,523              29.3
-Broller                               4,336               17,7?1             49.3
-Goat                                  2,331                6,16?             34.0
-Pil  Farms                           12.023               42,095             39.0
-Pig Households                          692                2,545             39.9
Total Livestock Compon ent          30,469               91,761              28.6
4. Aquacutture
*Xinxiang Prefecture                   4,828               13,568              26.0
-Jiaozuo Prefecture                    3,930                7,633              20.6
-Shangqu1 Prefecture                   3,470               11,513             30.6
*Puyang Municipallty                   1,626                5,670              27.4
Totat Aquacutture                   14,054               38,764              25.6
5. Agroinrdustry
-Writing Paper                        23.229              n7643                31.8
-Kraft Paper                          34,898              110,843             33.3
-Fructose                             11,622               37,528             30.9
*Plant Growth Hormone                  8.789               25,597              26.6
Total Agroindustry                  78,538              246,858             31.2
Total Project                        681,976            2,063,473              35.8
................................................................. o...............
Note: COtofLled an lysts of each conmpon nt can be found In the ProJect fl fsee



- 104 -
Tsbt* 9.-Z
CHINA
HtMAN AGRICULTURAL D V LOPHENT PROJECT
SUi_ry of Sensitivity AnalyIsi
.............................................................................................
Switching Value 812X  Price  I,nvo stmtnput Costs
mase Case -    -.... -.-.. ...    Fall  Costs fnc. fncressoo
Components                     ERR      Costs      lenef fit   by 10X by 10X      by 10X
........... ......................................................
1. Crops
2Zhoukou YRDS Area              34.6        95.5       .48.9    30.7      32.5        33.1
*Qucun YROS Area                36.7        95.5       -48.9    32.4      34.5        34.9
-Xi ngfuthu YRDS Area           37.0        O9.0      -50.0    32.9       34.6        35.4
*Shftouahuang YRDS Area         42.4       125.4       *55.7    38.1      40.2        30.6
-Groundwater Area               49.7        91.5      U48.7    42.8       46.6        46.1
-Tu-Xf aYong Drainage Area      26.9        36.5       *26.6    25.1      23.9        85.3
-Dong5ha He Area                29.8        O9.0      -49.5    26.7       27.6        29.1
Total Crop Component          38.4        93.5       -48.3    33.8      36.1        36.3
2. Fruft and Tree Cropa         36.7       135.0       -57.4    12.0      35.4        35.1
3. Livestock Co"pon nt
-Beef                           27.8        21.2      .17.5    18.9       25.9        21.2
-Sheep                          29.3        13.2      .11.7    14.5       26.9        17.4
-Broaler                        49.3         6.0        .5.7  .186.5      44.1      -182.1
-Goat                           34.0        17.8       -14.9     1S.5     30.7        23.3
-Pig Farms                      39.1        36.5       .26.8    30.1      36.2        33.5
-Pig Househotds                 39.9         5.8        .5.5  .210.0      36.6      *205.0
Total Livestock Component     28.6        13.0       .11.5    14.3      26.7        28.6
4. Aquaculture
-Xinxiang Mficfpelfty           26.0        29.5       -22.8    20.2      23.5        23.1
-J1azhuo Municipality           20.6        20.5       -17.0    15.7      18.3        18.3
Shangquf Prefecture            30.8        41.9       *29.5    25.0      28.1        28.1
-Puyang Munfcfpalfty            27.4        30.5       -23.4    21.3      24.9        24.2
Total Aquaculture             25.6        29.7       -22.9    20.0      23.1        22.9
5. Agrofndustry
-Writing Paper                  31.8        51.5       533.9    27.0      49.3        26.3
-Kraft Paper                    33.3       r7.2        *41.2    29.1      49.3        13.6
-Fructose Plant                 30.9        35.0       .26.0    24.5      58.4         9.9
-Plant Growth Hormon            26.6        37.0       .27.0    21.6      45.8        19.6
Total Agroindustry            31.6        52.0       *34.2    26.7      29.4        29.2
Total Project                   35.8        65.0       *40.0    30.6      33.7        33.1
.......................................................................................................
Note: Dotaft*d atyst of ota*nh compon nt can bo fourd In tha Proj ct ftlos.



U
Is.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
WUAtt   SU'fl,  Sa'AZS  OUL'Af    IM'dV    LLSb   5SWAP    Of'Of                   UP    "'            '         VV1UP 'U  g31 5sU    ut  sU.  fi   L*ZdlP   ati'UI    hER'S    US'wK  SIiB'S  af'B(           RISIU
msu,A    wesw   aes's        mein'   us'.n       ve Ru s'  ma'        swa,    an-ts,    R-aVe      BE's'    ma's'   ma's'   us's'    M-i's     sits'    a,.'.    ms'm  goti  neuw
_= ..... . ........ ........              . ............ . ....  _-                     ........ .  .... .... .............. . ...... I  .. . 
ass'"     wM Mu m'u          u'w  sst    M                                                                                                                    a et    ares    ,'  i*,'us B'  £s us*''  t- 
u* aa aa e e xt@e "@ 8n' nt fs@e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                                                         -     ma t t>'ubp"s n sa^1
1'                                                                                                                                                   ,.', W1   <n  uwa   utu                             maRI af-' sw<stu  B2 n  u    *Xa   @   @t
Sfw      S"        Sw        Sw        S "    Sw           tuS       SS        UI        nS        nS'"         "     59        SIt       St        'S        Su'        Wf4g                                       JSoto  *   s
'8m                                                                            to        to        -         t         '        on' *s nt u"s'u'2sX"u="2' 'wm 'z  es 
mr   M                            saQ                                                   R             92                                    Za S    S    S     `0'9  hE'S                 0m-
,1   *   *           w       t         ll         wme   m e                    set          t      us        us        us                 LW         as uw'a    us'Q     es'rs  is'z   uas'ul                     s* _
I                                                        g *  ' *  *u's *s,         .   1 Ymaa'
au  I            cut       im         M        gm~ ~ ~~                       s''     ss'I ss'u   xas,"s                      am.   suin
SIlLS   *U~t  *55%           55551    @555,1   eKES        55555    elfitI  nn5551    SIlLS    @55511    @55511    055511    055551  sSut    911    ,t"s"               weti   *    et*t
@   ^'n   's        'u~~~tu't e " -'s"    -          w       I "PI""
£5505    £55       £0Wt5 a£190l   W'gIt £1501    slVes    LIVeSl   Ism'MV                  '       LI9'ss    1'sS 9      ss'.     ss s Is      ass'  A1'5 sl   u s      tu  I  sI  u nt'#3'i          _ _e
_.           _ .......... . ................., ........... ., . _., .. ......... ..... _.... .  ,, ....... ., . ....... . ............,............... ...... . ................... _....
esun  10SU    *su"    u esuno    W    KU"   Nu"   nSU    omun   es7   on    esun   *"z  esun   Om"n  nB"ti  "Kat                                                                e    e                           u
Wo t         -     two ass    40d t     ot    "ot          twt    at t    es £s m'c    ec-    soes                     esI    sst         l  ot               eu' 'M Iz as In* St ek zu au-_
ia'-M sn as'wa        wlm     a'l    ait-'       zn 1 t   zt u st    M t'     z2It       zoM zs'Ot    twat   I@'5 s    In ss'   zte t    zDolst     1sDb    eua'        *ais'    sgts.  ,utZ                     _--,'
Sa'ls    etLs        51S   eK1S        Stu-i  S EDI   9LS'It   eo'9!   ti'S, e            a n '      a Si* t    9 its  s5U' s   osi'*    LSt'L      e a'    58'h    ga's   "Z's sz                     am        I  t_ sW
'ars"    umans   ais'   ew'as'  off-no aes'£               eu'*sI aw                                         ae'As    Owl"    ou'    ms u           USEs.   ut'S!  oeea*l oetn,   a                           I - plop"
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. _._. ........ ......... .... ,,..... . ...... ,,,_, .    ......... _,,....... ,, . . . ., ..., .., .   ........., ..... .,.,, ............,,........ . ..._,_.. .
au       "M        nu         au       nu        Sld       "M        iud       at lU               Su        did       h          i       Sd        S          id      gm        d
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... _._ . .......... _......, .... . ...... _.. _.              _         ._ ......... . ....... .... ... ............... ........... ....... .  .. _.___
ti3Vi est usm   Isefea
ENSUE  iSl  W.lWISWA-
U,.                                                                     *UUS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dWf



- 106 -                                                                              Annex 3
Table 10.1
cNIU
eW  Ntitorqn lirdltees
PwItseai  Proores    Irdioetorsa         f                 SA         a tive   PIwn. UAt t                          Ait  L           AS I              Asi AmIT                          lft
I-Unit         U aTa s      this few    This Sue           first VW         o Tow         1       ToYe     Fe"   Tow   fifth IThe
I5AtIATIIN, OSAIMN S ne.
1. "too, Or,int wi Oliver
taayLatiori mdan
A. Sanr Works
-otlMLtie..o                            @  0t
*Meln Cyats                             AN  MS
*Sr6anh CoreL                          @00 NI
Orlin ComLi                             @00 Pi
. c"ons                                    e.
tMdiLt Get"                            me.
C. Installation of l{pi nt
*PwSS/irnters                           No.
tInwsmielat Lifo
1. welt 1r "lion
A. Within the M555S
.stoo    wNttO     * NW                 of.
*tit walts *   altdsilitalta            No.
:water Sewing Pipes (now wel4)   'A.
lwate       rq               w | 
.U4tP Swin  Pips (In. Watts)   VA
S. OtIds* Otov ols
-salt" Wetts * Now                      Me.
*thaieiA Waits * I thabiltted           No.
.18P Savirn     Pips (Mvw Wtsa)   Km.
Water loving Pips tea, "lteR   VA
............................. .......... .........  ............ ............ ............ ............ ............... ..........    ....... ............   .
1. tinuts P_          t
-CAP luger:.                            Twno
-top  "aopts                            Tow
*Pestlicie    pwats                     Tom
2CWMtHATIen S lihib.
-low  Procs sin   Cantcs                NO.
Quantity of Improved $seed
.tOi t                                Two
Maite                                 Tomn
Others                                To
......................   ........... .......... .........  ............ ............ ............ ............ ............... ............ ............ ............
FRUIT & ItIR   OUVLO      T
1. Orchards
ApptL                                 No
AVitot                                to
Poartpet                              "a
2  WirOteetk                               No!         I                                                                                                    .
3. WitersIN
s Ikr '..... ... ................ ............. ..........   .     ......... ....  ........ ...... ............ ......... ... ....... .... ..... .. ........... ............... ....... ... . . ..
Township utsmian Centrsn
*Oebitftetin otf Offites              mo.
*Upmread  equipnt                     No.
N. of No" Rtecruits
*-on StIxtiVttl     T efafiu          me.
*Y~        l in/Village Tetmicieia    No.
ntsvt 4tt° ............ ......... .. ............ .... ...... ...... ... ............ ... ................ ... ............ ... ............ ............ ........ ............
LI'tstQQK
Attfslfo Ntf                           NOsetholds
.AltfLta Sheep                          Noadh oted
*IIWO 'Goat                             Noue.holds
ALf.fa Procattln                       Nalgihotds
.jbtfrv PFrobttion                      NoIaolO
-pF  Praaitfan                          deteW
-Ptg Frme,                              No.
..:'.". ..".°:......... .. ............ ..... ....... ... .........  .......... ............ ............ .......... ..............  ............ .........  ............
AGACLTQti
1. Fish pWto                              Me.
2. Heatery                                  e.
S. P.0d MitL                              No.
st.fe."l"..  .. ......... .. ............ ........ ......   ............ ............ .................... ............... ............ ........ ............
TECHNMICAL ASSZSTANt5 S TRINING
1. D    t s tsu Tr *lning          t
AqrCUltutre/FPorestrYt
Coutry Technicians                        Mo.
Towship Technicians                       No.
Viltlta     Tachnti n                     llo.
poruoe                                    NO.
*Li.vestocitt
Couatry feclniciwns
Totauhip tedtnioli_
Vittose Tothtici ta
Psesu
-Aqasuwtulfot
Comtry t 1 eoliiwu                        No.
TeAShip teahaifiar.                       No.
Viwllag    tlo"cw                         Me. 
foru"e                                    Neo.
-W    Cwervaml
Casatry Teehfihiamn                       so.
Towlhip Taes        #iai                 so.
ViIts"e Todoisia                          sof.
Falmer.                                   No.
2. Oreos    Training
st10w  lows                          No.
Totat Oualtin                        Da"
I. int_ftatimnol
Ceesultntom                        pors-en.MI                               I
CI *. ae."    a.OcS            *      ea.na..eae.     e EOsSS...                                . . ......      ..n     ......



-107-                   M~~~~~Anex 3
Table 10.2
Pasg 1 of 2
HENAN AGRICULTtRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION IT    TO KEY ACTTVITIES
Approximate /
Dates                                   Expected Skill         Staff Input
(month/year)      Activity                 Requirements           (staff weeks)
07/91         Suoervision Mission       Agroindustries              10.0
Project Launch Work-     Irrigation Engineering
shop.  Review of draft   Economics
final designs for agro-  Procurement
industries, irrigation   Financial Management
and drainage schemes,
procurement and finan-
cial management.
Reporting and M & E.
11/91         Review of final           Environmental Engineer
designs for agro-        Irrigation Engineer         8.0
industries, fishery,     Livestock/Agriculturist
livestock, seed,
irrigation and drainage
04/92         Sunervision Mission
Review of agriculture,   Livestock/Agriculturist    6.0
aquaculture and live-   Aquaculture Specialist
stock development
10/92         Review of seed process-  Seed specialist/Agricul-   8.0
ing/agriculture develop-   turist
ment and agroindustries  Agroindustries specialist
Economist
04/93         Suoervision Mission
Review of agriculture,   Economist                   8.0
livestock, irrigation    Environmentalist
and drainage. Govern-    Agronomist/Livestock
ment prepares for Mid-   Specialist
term review              Irrigation Engineer
I/ First two years will be initially devoted to review of designs and
construction for agroindustries, irrigation and drainage and aquaculture
components In accordance with implementation schedule chart 2. Some
spocLalists may visit the project area while undertaking other operations.



- 108 -
Annex 3
Table 10.2
Page 2 of 2
cont' d.
Approximate
Dates                                    Expected Skill          Staff lput
(month/year)      Activity                  Requirements           (staff weeks)
10/93          Mid-term review mission   Economist                 10.0
Irrigation, agriculture,  Agriculturist
aquaculture and live-    Aquaculture Specialist
stock development -       AgroLndustries.
agroindustries and seed   Specialist
processing
06/94          SuRervision
Government and Henan      Government/IDA teams      6.0
Province to Implement
Recommendations of
Mid-term review and
decide on the nature of
future supervision
missions.
(Field visits may be
needed to follow-up on
mid-term results)
1995 * 1997      At least one super-         (to be determined
vision/year and last        follvwing Mid-term
mission should discuss     Review)
with borrower prepara-
tion of Completion
Report



- 109 -
Amexy 4
Page I of 4
CHIN
HENAN AGRICULTM.tAL DEVELOPME1NT PROJ!ECT
Environmental Xonftorin_rg ProrM
1.   The project would support a comprehensive program of environmental
monLtoring. This would initially establish baseline data before the project
comences, and later regularly monitor any effects which the project
components may have on the environment. The total investment in environmental
monitoring would be Y2.8 million which would include capital items and
operating costs during the project period.
Stm±etura of Monitoring Progr&M
2.    Environmental monitoring would be carried out by the PMO environmental
unit, 2 central laboratories and 20 county level monitoring stations.
-     The PHO environmencal unit composed of staff from PEPB, BOA and
WCB, would be responsible for management and coordination of
monitoring and data analysis operations, and for preparation of
report.
_     Two central laboratories would operate as commercial test centres
for the analysis of samples.
-    -The MOA provincial agro-environmental laboratory would
analyze all soil and solids samples, gas analysis and
atmospheric tests, and forward results to the PMO unit.
-     £The EPB provincial la3oratory would analyze all water
samples and liquids, and forward results to the PMO unit.
-     County level monitoring stations (20) would collect all samples on
a scheduled basis, carry out simple analysis of samples, and send
results and samples to one of the central laboratories.
3.    Institutional support would be provided in the form of equipment,
training, study tours, operating funds and technical assistance.
4.    Monitoring Activities
a)    Establish base-line data before the boginning of tho project.
b)    PEPB approves tho dosign of all agroindustrial plants to meet.
internationally acceptable emLssion and offluent standards.
c)    Samples of effluents discharged from agroLndustrial plants will be
collected for water qualLty analysis on a daily basis. The samples will
be analyzed either In-plant or through contractual agreements with
private, cortified laboratories. The daily results will bo maLntained



-LO-                                 A=nex 4
Pasg 2 of 4
in a logbook that will be made available on roquest to EPB and IDA. The
results of the monitoring will bo utilized to assure that pollution
control/water treatment facilities are operated and maintained so that
plant discharges 'met Chinesa% water quality standards. EPB will carry
out a random sample program (minimum of once por quarter samples) as a
check on the in-plant monitoring efforts.
d)    County level monitoring statLons collect soil and water samples to
analyze effect of agro-chemLcals on soil and water and monitor water
quality. About 1400 samples would be analyzed annually.
*)    Local consultants would be engaged on a regular basis to carry out
two surveys per year on each of the following:
( i) The wet land in Yanjin county
(ii) 10 historical sites and tombs
5.    Institutional Strengthening
a)    PHO Environmental Unit Cgsts
The PMO unit would be provided with office facilities and one
PC/286 computer system for data preparation, data analysis, and report
preparation.  Training would be given to 5 persons in computer
operations and reporting procedures.  Operating costs for the unit would
be supported for 5 years.
Office equipment, computer system and software         Y 40,000
Training               5 persons x Y2,000              Y 10,000
Operational costs      5 years x Yo,o000               Y 50,000
_otal PMO Environmental Unit       YlO0,000
b)    PEPB Manamement Costs
The Environmental Protection Bureau have estimated that the costs
involved in managing the environmental monitoring programme would be
Y300,000.
c)    ProviL'cial Laboratories of MOA and EPB
The provincial laboratories of MOA agro-onvironmental monitoring
centre and EPB environmental monltoring central station are already
established. Additional equipment required for testing project samples
would be provided under the project and located at the relevant
laboratory. Training would be given in the use of the new equipment.
and in analysis of soils solids and gas samples at MOA laboratory, and
in tests on liquids at the EPB laboratory. Incromontal operating costs
for these units would also be included in the investment schedule.



- 111 -                           Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
Investment and Operating Costs at Provincial Laboratories:
Instrument                          Unit cost Y       Qty     Total Y
Atomic absorption spectrometer       260,000           2       520,000
Preparative liquid chromatograph    172,500            2       345,000
Gas chromatograph                    100,000           1       100,000
UV spectrophotometer                  85,000           1        85,000
Ion chromatograph                   145,000            1       145,000
Electronic scales                    15,000            1        15,000
Equipment total           Yn,210,000
Training              12 persons x Y3,000                   Y   36,000
Operational costs      5 years x  Y30,000                   Y  150,000
Total Costs at Provincial Laboratories Y1,390,000
d)    County Monitgring Stations
These stations are already established but would bo strengthened
with equipment and training for work undertaken under the project.
Investment and Ooeratinf Costs at Count Units
Motorcycles x 20                                     Y200,000
Sample pots, fridges, containers, glassware etc.    Y240,000
Training 40 persons x Y15,000                        Y 60,000
Operating costs for 5 years x 4,000/year             Y 20,000
Total costs County Units  Y520,000
*)    Stuty Tour
A study tour has been proposed by the PMO for 5 persons to visit
the USA to study environmental management and monitoring systems in
developed countries. The tour would be for 15-20 days, and would
probably be of benefit to the project.
Study tour 5 persons 15-20 days               Yl55,000



- 112 -                          Ao    4
Page 4 of 4
f)    Technical Training
Training for senior personnel has been requested in addition to
the training of operatives included in the above schedules. This would
cover 3 persons per municipality for a period of 2 months institutional
training and one month on job training. Courses would include
environmental protection, environmental monitoring, data analysis,
statistics and quality control. Course materials, books and chemicals
would be included.
Technical training component                  Y105,000
g)    Special Monitoring Subiects
Special monitoring of wet-lands and historic or archeological
sites would be undertaken twice per year by local consultants. This
operation would be under the control of the PMO unit.
Monitoring wet-lands Y10,000 x 3 years        Y 30,000
Monitoring ancient monuments Y5,000 x 3 years Y 15,000
h)    Fgreign Consultant
A foreign consultant would be engaged to desi6n and run some of
the training courses on specific subjects, and to introduce foreign
experience on environmental monitoring. Subject matter would included:-
- The evaluation and protection of wetland&
- Wildlife technical surveys.
- Environmental sampling and analysis techniques, equipment
and tests.
- Data analysis systems for *nvironmental samples.
- Report preparation and presentation.
The consultant would be required during the first year of the
project for a period of one month, and would need to prepare materials
for each of the above subjects.
Foreign consultant  1 month at US$ 12,000      Y 56,520



-113-                              Annex S
Page 1 of 3
CHINA-
HENAN AGRICULTURtAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARTIFTC!AL RECiHARGE OF GROUNDWATER
Introdudtion
1.   Due to over-exploitation of groundwater in dif f        aquifers In Henan
Province and the growing deficits In irrigation water, h    As launched a program
for "groundwater compensationw or artificial groundwater recharge. This program
can be samarized as follows
Irrigated        Diverted      Implementation
MunLiciality           Aa         Yellow River Flow      Period
(ha)         (million cbm)
Shangqiu             86,700             260              90-95
Kaifeng              136,600            410              90-95
uyang                 66,700            200              90-93
inxiang               70,000            210              afeer 99
Total           360 000           1 080
2.   The schemes would convey, distribute and recharge Yellow River water via
existing or extended surface irrigation schemes into groundwater deficlt areas,
notably Puyang. The required quantLty of 1.080 blllion cbm would'be diverted from
the Yellow River mainly during off-season periods (December, January, and.
February).
3.   While there is scope for improving field water management (water application
methods and rates, scheduling, etc.), groundwater deficits cannot be eliminated
without diverting surface water from the Yellow River for artifLeial recharge
of groundwater aquifers and/or supplementing existing groundwater through using
surface water for irrigation whenever it is available.
Qucun Pilot Storage and Irrigation Scheme
4.  Due to over-exploitatlon of groundwater in Puyang Municipality in recent
years, groundwater levels have dropped in some areas to more than 20 meters below
ground surface. This has increased lifting cost and forced farmers to replace
their well and pump sots. The situation would become worse if no countermeasures
are taken.
S.  Thls scheme would address the defLcient groundwater situation in Puyang.
Rechargo method was discussed by Henan WCB and experts from the Xinxiang Farm
Irrigation Research Institute. It was decided that effective groundwater recharge
would be achioved through primary use of water diversions from the Yellow River



- 114 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of-3
in field irrigation. The proposed scheme is to recharge groundwater in Puyang
county by conveying about 50 million cbm annually from the Yellow River to the
deficit aquifers in those counties, mainly during off-season (Decomber to
February).  The use of groundwater would be reduced and more water would be
"stored" in the aquifers. Qucun YRDS main canal would be extended and lined and
water would be distributed on the fields through a network of earth channels.
Local surface water resources and groundwater would supplement Yellow River water
during the rest of year( March to November). Industrial and municipal needs in
the area would also be satisfied in the sams manner.
6.   The appraisal mission studied the proposed scheme in detail, and agreed to
include it in Henan ADP as a pilot project; and recommended steps for
implementation of that scheme (See Attachment 1). Water availability from the
Yellow River to this scheme during off-season has to be confirmed by the Yellow
River Conservancy Commission prior to the implementation of the scheme.
StudLes and Works
7.   The studies and works for this pilot scheme would include installing a
groundwater monitoring system; carrying out studies and experiments in the scheme
area for the first three years of the project implementation period, and
construction of the pilot scheme in the fourth and fifth years which would
include construction of a network of earth channels to control and serve an area
of 6,700 ha. The works would also include lining of Qucun YRDS main canal (about
34 km) and extending it to serve the pilot scheme, rehabilitation of old wells
and sinking of new wells in order to optimize yield and spacing of existing
wells.
Cost Estimates
S.   The total base cost estimate for this scheme is Y31.b.)-  million (using
exchange rate of Y4.77/US$), out of which  Y13.135 million is for lining of
Qucun YRDS main canal. Detail6d cost estimate of this scheme can be found .n
the project files. In addition to that, an estimated cost of YO.200 million
for groundwater monitoring system and studies is included under Irrigation
Support..



- 115 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
IMolementation Stegs for the Oucun Pilot Storage and Irrifation Scheme
A pilot scheme is included in the irrigatiun and drainage component
to irrigace and recharge groundwater in the Puyang municipality and Qingf.ng
county. The mission reviewed the proposals and outlined the implementation
steps as follows:
(a) Install a monitoring system of the groundwater aquifer in the
area. The data collected from this system would be used in the design of this
scheme.
(b) Carry out a study for water resources. agriculture and socio-
economic conditions in the scheme area. Henan P1O would coordinate the work on
this study with the Xinxiang Farm Irrigation Research Institute, which is
presently undertaking A similar study for the Central Government to build a
model for such development.
(c) Carry out experiments in the scheme area to provide the data
needed for the design of the proposed pilot scheme, and to test the
effectiveness of the proposed works to recharge the groundwater aquifer. This
experimental program would continue for at least three years.
(d) Implement the scheme in the fourth and the fifth years of the
project period, after acquiring enough information and data from the above
steps.
(s) P1O would keep the Bank informed on the progresx of work on the
above steps, and would submit a draft report two years after the project
starting date for review by the Bank. A final report would be submLtted after
three years of the project starting date. This report would include detailed
water balance calculations based on a comprehensive model for the assessment of
water resources in the scheme area.
(f) It was agreed that the implementation of this scheme is
contingent on the availability of the off-season water from the Yellow River
for the recharge and irrigation of the areas of this scheme. The Yellow River
Conservancy Commission would confirm this availability.



- 116 -
*.Annex 6
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DVELOPE  PROJECT
Selaeted Documents and Data Available in the Proiset Files
A. Racorts and StUdigz Related to the Prol=ct
A.l The Eighth Five-Year Plan for Henan Provincial Agricultural Development
and Tentative Plan for Year 2000, by Henan Provincial PlainLag and
Economic Comission, April 1990.
A.2 Henan Agricultural Developuent Project, FAO/CP. Preparation Report,
April 6, 1990 (Two Volumes).
A.3 Report for the Project Appraisal Planning and Design. Irrigation and
Drainage Component, Henan Agricultural Development Project, by Design
Institute of Water Conservancy, Henan Province, April 1990.
A.4  Feasibility Study of Puyang Plant Growth Hormone Kill, Boijing
Consulting and Engineering Corporation for Light Industry, April 1990.
A.5  Feasibility Study of Weuxian Starch Sugar Mill, Beijing Consulting and
Engineoring Corporation for Light Industry, April 1990.
A. 6 Environmental Impact Study for the Henan Agricultural Dovelopment
Project, March 1991 (Two Volumes).
A. 7 Final Report on The Inventory of Natural and Cultural Rosource Within
the Henan Agricultural Development Projct, by Wang Tian-hou, November
1990.
B. KorkLngj aP.ra
1.1 Project Costs
B.2  Irrigation & Drainage Component
B 3 Agriculture
5.4  Seed
5.5 Livestock
B 6 Aquaculturo
3.7 Agroindustry
5.8  Financial and Economic Analysis.



- 117 -
Chan 1.
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ORGANIZATION
|  Henan   Provinciail      |
.   I   Go' vernmnt
c*nd                  '    Provincial
and Technical                Project Leading
committee                   Group (PLG)
STC 
Provincial                                Provincial                           Prov/h  nic
Technical              .             Project Management                        Bureau of
Bureau                                 Office (P M 0)                          Finance
I      Prefecture
I       Municipal
PLG
Prefecture                                   Prefecture
Munlcpal Got                                  MunicipalPrfcMn
TechnicalPMBueuo
County      |
_PLO 
I __ 0I -                                 _
County Govt                                 County                              Coun
Technical                                                -----                  Bureau of
Bureau                                      P MO                                Financ e
4,      ACTIVM    OF OP  O                                       AcTvmIn oF sTC.
*As  hinauwvl    reauh exten
.mw up wmnnu daWNed weAk pregma and budpet                VWd tVW"i prorsan
e ndew ad appr   lw  bWl PMO wodk pas
.Moeior phyulou  idfanlald prre  of the pralsc           "eW PLO. mi PIW0. on planAhig
.Coo_line md NW ftle  pto4  hblsent ln                    mid elIs ofd pfde o wron
Amb ReIw NWi appraov   iuia slpeollastsemkolo  lasedtomll
4,      Lialee wth ceia  an prvinda agencies In pWe                 {    | h
1 Fd wlon - hw"bAn pub_
..undertake ptwwoaameuit
*Prepeuo detailed pr*   aci s wseiml, audits, reposte.
and with0swval applmosUCTOneO   Pk
Pomidwm paeetplm le PON    ad levels
LWOUND:                                                  -Padket. prolee lWmple dmena
AdminletreIva funcon                                    4ealehnleeUas poblems
c4nlnae W  -                                        -GaFteConepr  unding



C}IART 2
- 118 -
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
ITEM       CALENDARYEAR    1991   |   1992   1   1993   1   1994   1  1995   1   i1998 j
al4RIER          2131411 1213f-4 1   2 3 4  1 r2 3 4 1 12 3 4             23
1.1 Zhaokou    YRDS E ,,lJ,,lll. l..l,l,,, ,-.l,,l,,l,
12 Xlan9uzhu YROS ={Jkot)t ZJ Z    
1.4 aChmn    YROS -- ,  __  _,.,T)I
1.5 Groundwater Irriggibn    67-=m    
1.6    Oonghah    Rlver Regul. m__X________     
1.7 Yu-)aa-Yong Orp   m _m_m_    __     
2. AGRICULTURE                 I I  1 f I I I I I I I I I Iuz I  
2.2 AgrochanikWalterti     ,| Jt7        -=,-       I1_                       III
2.3 Tunnel Groix_   u'1                            t i -         | T          III
|2.4 Ctop Prdtedbon *,b. ;,| ,J,,,,, X    
2.5 Wlnd Brk Traiim-                                                     ~~i~1        +
|2.6 Wicw  uhes                  l.fJ  $---fz       ;_m             4     _ t 
2.L7 Ddts RehabWlItalbon |     _l_   _---JJ              --m_1 1_                 L    I _
12.8 Now Frult Tra _m m  
iaAOROINDU8TRY '';;;';;;'__=_ 
3.1 Wuhl P lmil  , ,,,,,J,,,,, ,  T_ 1!   
13.2 chnWmPai|L'pmm-*-                           -l11                  |_ llt
-3-.3 Woro n tee pbil . . . .w4-^----   f*-            
34Puyang Obbwllb  PAR            -^-^|-f*-^Jr*            
:3A Coid Storm                          E                           II_ III
4. ANIMtAL HUSBANDRYI   ' ___=_
|4.1 SU W b              I 04ft,,J,J,,,T  --I---TJ            ---_-_- _-
14.4 Plip-_                                                      XM   
4.6 AIfaJIlla--rt--fBf-*rtf* __2   
5.1 Jlsozou  Munwkbly   |,I-f--tJ-*--4-s*mm*      
6.2 Putrq-V Munielay |             - -- -J--   -rezmmz   _                    II         -
|  .4 Xlinxtg MJunidpa         I.,tl.    lll S _        1                 _    
T . RESEACH & ammlN40   ;--l                 J    111_m                                     m
KRYli                                Prepration at acilvily undr lrrloel  hn    



PCOmuI    SMZWV  Lt top lom i@WUi AND MATIUWUALac
-'-9
_____.___________  1 {-1- L            14llW,.i  mz   0    t X          ii-lili$[-S  jQllX-l-t-s-S=4- 4S1
Zbb l 2  a    s .>     L1 8 u            * .| Z || 1 §K m 1                        . -    12 1. I -. t H               1 .3       is          l.
STEEL                Ice    .    W                               UI,
Ia E  .|.    .                                                      I I 1
1-I' 17                                   101 I
package  . 
IFIRiILIZZCS          ico
FadajS.e No. S
MSTICIK9mS Ice   2.
N0.4  2.40         1    * n
WENICLVS  Ice~ ~ ~ ~~~~~   II  
MACUNIX? a equiI'Eat    Id    2._    net mS     I r t   I                                 t
ftcha*e                                                                                                                     la m  -  *U  .*
ELZCThICAL tiA3lnENT   Ice        .-           
?.cbag.u u.s. _  _ _ ...  tZ   .  I '                                                     --
__ _AL__* __113
a *  A  WII m:SPV *       M u.grcas  mum  ummuis  I 3Ut11fl. ati   an S Ift      -INiM"1IL
T s   In. sunIMISaun  Ull um,so is INA       a, snusm omqaw.  " sin      inwuuUW sia
SO gum ZANmun U mirica*iam Wen umKwn.        lans aI nouw  a, tur     Ice-am    narn
4 lu~swt  in U 511   no"
S MFS Ksmame  iua
* m   m     m  e     N  W    mum       e,"
In
I en         1acomonai
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!



CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping calendar of main annual crops
CROPandUEW MON.TEWP.   Jan| Feb   M Mar | Apr J May  Jun | Jul   Aug |Sp    Oct I Nov   Doc
M.anMonZihTemp.inoC     -2.6  1.2  |6.8   13.3  19.0  26.5  25.7  26.2  20.3  14.4  7.7  1.1
Wheat                         777277,M _                            _                       Ii 
Rio____ =                =     =____-______ I-
Coton                        I      I_____T 
Corn
Rice                                                  -.            MMM,



MAP SECTION



I I12,                                              1 113'                                               14
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*   Seed Centers                             _      Project Boundary
e    Fruit Orchards
®ITunnel Greenhouses                 IZZI  Yellow River Diversion Scheme                                      n L 
A    Alfalfa SH                                     Drainage ond Well Irrigation                              /
,   Shelter Belts
\ Wicker Bushes                                    Well Irrigation Areas
Wicker Bushes r\-,<).>\
El Beef Cattle                            -         Roads                                                    '\ JHebi
M    Mutton Sheep SH                         -      Railroads                                                                             J
]  Hide Goat SH                                     Rivers
El  Broiler Projects                      -*-   Community Boundaries
E]  Fish Farms                                      Province Boundaries                                                        i Xion
*    Agroprocessing Centers
o    Cold Storages                                         SHANXI                                       Hui Xi. .
0          20          40         60                            al-n
KILOMETERS                              '                                      nx      /
9 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ r/au HESE  (Rve                                                                                          K H    < 1<   hng
e;son Sch
Y  ins a                                                  ayn                    ln
River               /                                                                'Yellow River
bANX~~~~~~~~12I                               ,Don.Arh rb a tofenrsadl>   
HENAON                                      >                                       JinNGgya  n G  U
_8 -   A  ANHUI  fXinan                  YhnhI                   ong XIoREO
Yima  Luoyang                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~00*        Zho uCang
SHNX             <5      FN          /H                , .Srd S ,.,iPn dn s                               _     _at.
Area~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. oa ou W3st
Yellow Sao                                                                      Xuch parlrJlthrMBe"S^nelih  r   -YoRe
_12w             j  _   >   <tThya  ngh      apmeagby
-              L ZY;>   ,f ZHEJIANG A Neeshish                                / t\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sm \fl                        of Dw w nn o ws Bankto     Xi gc 
HUNAN X        JIANGXI I           r)               ch   r4t              11 an f.Pndn
A;e,, rl 0           Yrllow Seea wd~                                                                                       r        'st
,eCdC,S CO  acmeooks,t tof thoh
JANGX                             C.Q~OI   The "e Chf
HUBEI  ---i~~~~~ -~~  SHI                OOt~~~~onthe       Ping3diTngsuadia



