Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 19504
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2242-CHA)
June 30, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal (1990): $1.00 = Y 4.72
Completion Year (December 31, 1998): = $1.00 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoF       Bureau of Finance
DAP       Diammonium Phosphate
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GWDS    Ground Water Development Scheme
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
I&D       Irrigation and Drainage Component
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PMO       Project Management Office
PPMO    Provincial Project Management Office
PLG       Project Leading Group
RMB       Renminbi (Chinese Currency)
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
TSP       Triple Superphosphate
WCD       Water Conservancy Department
YRDS    Yellow River Diversion Scheme
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director: Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Managers: Zhong Tong and Rapeepun Jaisaard, EASRD



CONTENTS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREPACE .....................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description .....................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................................2
C. Implementation Experience .....................................................3
D. Project Impact ....................................................8
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................                .......................9
F. Project Sustainability ....................................................                            10
G. IDA  Performance .....................................................11
H. Borrower Performance ..............................                                                    12
I. Assessment of Outcome .............................. 13
J. Future Operations ..............................                                                        13
K. Key Lessons Leamed                            .............................. 14
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................                                                           16
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ..............................                                              16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..............................                                         17
Table 3: Project Timetable ..............................                                                 17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................................. 18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................    22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...................................................                  24
Table 8A: Project Costs ....................................................                              26
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................................................                           26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................                   .......................... 27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................                   28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................                29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .........................                    ........................... 30
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .................................................... 32
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................... 42
ANNEX  C: DOCUMENTS IN  PROJECT  FILE  ................................................... 49
ANNEX  D: PHOTOGRAPHS  OF PROJECT  AREAS ............................................ 50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMETATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2242-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Henan Agricultural
Development Project in China for which Credit 2242-CHA in the amount of SDR 81.4
million (US$110 million equivalent) was signed on April 14, 1991, and made effective
on August 23, 1991.
The original financing plan was extended by a year to December 31, 1998. Final
disbursement occurred on March 18, 1999, when the credit was disbursed 99.86%.
This ICR draft was prepared by a joint World Bank and FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission,' which visited China on April 19-30, 1999.
The Henan Agricultural Development Project Management Office has prepared a draft
ICR including a general report and specific reports for each component. These reports
included data on actual investment costs, physical implementation completion, and basic
analysis required for project evaluation. The mission undertook field visits to inspect on-
site physical accomplishments and intensive discussions were carried out between the
mission and the project management offices, government offices, and technical bureaus.
l Z. Tong (the World Bank Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist); D. Gue (Agro-Industry Specialist,
Consultant); M. Sandoz (FAO/CP, Irrigation Engineer); and A. Bueno (FAO/CP, Agriculturist).



ii
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2242-CHA)
CHINA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.  The project was designed to help finance an integrated agricultural development
project in areas along Yellow River in Henan Province. The main objective of the project
was to accelerate and diversify agricultural development in order to alleviate poverty,
raise farmer incomes and increase rural employment. Specific project objectives were to:
(a)   provide additional irrigation water and alleviation of soil salinity and
waterlogging through the construction of four Yellow River diversion
schemes (YRDS), a ground water development scheme (GWDS), the
Yuxiayong drainage and well irrigation scheme, the Dongshahe regulation
scheme, and the Quncun pilot recharge/storage scheme;
(b)   increase the productivity of existing low-yield farms by crop intensification
and diversification, and development of waste land for crops and orchards;
(c)   expand livestock production through the effective use of crop residues;
(d)   develop low-lying areas for fish production;
(e)   invest in agro-processing and agro-industry;
(f)   improve in the province's ability to manage water resources effectively; and
(g)   strengthen research, extension and environmental protection programs.
2.  Project objectives were clear, well-formulated and based on considerable
preparation work by the Bank and the Borrower. These objectives were consistent with
the strategic emphasis on agricultural development by the Henan Provincial Government
and also supported the Bank's Group's country assistance strategy in the agricultural
sector. In general, the design for the project components made realistic assumptions
regarding availability of improved technologies for water resource use, agriculture and
livestock production. Selection criteria for agro-processing factories ensured technical
and financial viability.
Implementation Results and Experience
3.  The project has successfully reached full targets for all components as presented in
the SAR (or revised by the mid-term review). The irrigation and drainage component
completed construction, with total area benefited reported at about 274,000 ha, 97% of
the target. Overall, the project's irrigation objective was substantially achieved. The
agriculture component completed targeted procurement of fertilizer. Construction of
tunnel greenhouses exceeded targets by 18%. Improvements at agricultural extension
stations at county and township level were fully realized. Planting of windbreaks,
wickers, orchard development for apple, pomegranate, plum, apricot, grape, rehabilitation



of Chinese dates, and mulberry plantation all reached 100% of the corresponding SAR
target. The livestock component surpassed SAR targets with solid results of 153% and
279% respectively, for goat and sheep households. Fish ponds completed 101% of the
mid-term revised target. The construction of 11 agro-industrial or agro-processing plants
and 16 seed processing centers were completed. All agro-processing plants and 11 of the
seed processing plants are in commercial operation. The remaining five seed processing
plants have just completed commissioning. All scientific research projects under each
component were completed. Some research projects received provincial awards and
some results have been extended to production areas. Training for technicians, farmers
and PMO staff achieved SAR targets. Financial analysis shows that all components have
reached a higher financial rate of return than estimated in the SAR. The overall
economic rate of return is estimated at 40% compared to the SAR estimate, 35.8%.
4.  Implementation began smoothly, and over the first two years, the credit disbursed
faster than planned. At mid-term review in 1994, some technical and financial changes
were required. The project also experienced some delays due to: (a) lack of timely
allocation of counterpart funds; (b) lack of working capital for agro-processing factories;
(c) delayed delivery of equipment for agro-processing factories. The project was
extended twice and was finally completed on December 31, 1998. The total expenditure
by loan closing was $245.6 million, of which IDA financed $116.5 million equivalent to
SDR 81.3 million.
5.  IDA's performance in project preparation, appraisal, and implementation was
highly satisfactorily as rated by the PPMO. IDA helped the government design the
project and provided technical assistance for implementation problems which occurred
from time to time and provided sound advice for the operation. Borrower performance
was satisfactory. The PPMO, concerned provincial technical bureaus, and the "Henan
Technical Advisory Group" set up implementation regulations and coordinated well. The
project was well managed. About 56,000 farm households directly benefited from the
project and the borrower complied promptly and completely with the covenants
prescribed in the legal agreement.
Summary of Findings, Plans for Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.   Overall Findings. Establishment of an integrated system linking  production,
processing, and marketing is the cornerstone of the project's success. Irrigation and
drainage schemes provided infrastructure to farmers in crop production, while planting of
windbreaks reduced natural disasters (sandstorm, flood and drought) and improved soil
fertility and the agro-ecological environment. The participating companies are
undergoing reform of their ownership structures and forming joint ventures with
commercial companies to expand their marketing networks. The model of linking
companies to farm households benefited both parties and reduced market risk. The
advanced technology introduced to the project enabled the products to compete in the
market place. However, irrigation and drainage schemes need further improvement to
some structures and the gate system. Also, water charges do not cover the full O&M
costs and some enterprises need to improve financial and commercial management.
Lastly, a lack of working capital still exists for some agro-processing factories.



iv
7.   Project Impact. In general, the project was successful in increasing farmers'
income, creating employment opportunities and generating local tax revenue.  It
promoted local economic development along the Yellow River and achieved the
objective of poverty alleviation. In the project areas over the past six years, farmer net
per capita income increased from Y550 to Y2,179 on average, at an annual growth rate of
25.8%, while in the same period, the provincial average was 21.5%. A total of 26
research projects have been completed under the project, some of them receiving
provincial awards. The results of this research have been applied or adopted into practice
and have had a positive impact on yields and income. The project has also had
demonstration effects in non-project areas. Many non-project farmers have adopted
project technology: for example, tunnel greenhouses have spread over large areas. The
agro-processing factories also developed production bases involving large numbers of
farmners. The integrated approach linking production to processing has indicated an
interesting future direction for rural development in this region. The project had a
positive enviromnmental impact.
8.   Sustainability. The project is potentially sustainable. Implementation of the project
has provided excellent facilities for production, processing and marketing of agricultural,
livestock and aquaculture products.  Agro-processing factories are in commercial
operation. The irrigation and drainage systems are in place, operating well and benefiting
crop production; farmers' incomes have increased through their livestock, orchard, and
aquaculture production.  Governiment policies promoting agricultural development
provide strong incentives for commercialized development under the project. Thus
stakeholders have good reason to maintain facilities and continue operations developed
under the project. However, long-run sustainability will depend on future operation
plans. Government support remains important. In response to market variations, the
structure and variety of products need to be continually re-assessed and adjusted.
However, poor management of some enterprises still exists and successful management
experiences still need to be further disseminated. Assurance of working capital will
continue to be necessary for agro-processing factories and subloan repayment schedules
still need to be enforced.
9.   Future Operations. The model of company links to farm households should be
extended to other areas. However, to maintain and increase project impact, the project
would still need support from the provincial goverrnment in carrying out policies,
providing technical assistance, and securing funding for future operations. In particular,
adequate funding needs to be provided for agricultural support services. Those county
revolving funds that have been successfully implemented will continue to be used for
project participants to support expansion to more farm households in surroundin g areas.
Further gradual increases of the water charge from 0.04 yuan/in3 to 0.08 yuan/in by the
year 2001 is under consideration and should be implemented. The YRDS water balance
study should continue to be used to formulate sound water resources management plans
for the region. The O&M plan, especially thorough maintenance, needs to be
implemented. Research on efficient water saving techniques should be completed and
the results applied. Successful project experiences in enterprise management should be
introduced throughout the province. Each of the processing plants has provided ample
evidence of the advantages of the linkage approach to plant operation and commercial
activities.



v
10. Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned from the project include: (a) a
comprehensive design approach establishing an integrated system to link production,
processing and marketing is highly beneficial and conducive to foreign capital investment
in agricultural projects; (b) stable project management at all levels and good coordination
among the project management offices and involved technical bureaus, is essential to
success; (c) good plant design and excellent equipment are key factors in attracting
private sector partners to processing plants. Also, adequate and timely availability of
working capital has to be ensured for processing plants; (d) management of revolving
funds needs to be ensured; (e) decentralization of responsibility for implementation of
irrigation and drainage works, and subsequent O&M, requires substantial support from
provincial authorities in order to develop local capabilities for water resource
management; (f) the incorporation of windbreaks in irrigated areas in Henan offers sound
environmental protection; and (g) adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds is a
prerequisite to smooth implementation.



CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2242-CHA)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.  The Henan Agricultural Development Project was designed to provide assistance to
finance an integrated agricultural development project covering 20 counties in Jiaozuo,
Xinxing, Puyang, Kaifeng, and Shangqiu Municipalities of Henan Province. The main
objective of the project was to assist the government in accelerating and diversifying
agricultural development in order to alleviate poverty, raise farmer incomes and increase
rural employment. Specific project objectives were to:
(a)  provide additional irrigation water and alleviate soil salinity and
waterlogging problems. The project developed four Yellow River diversion
schemes (YRDS); a ground water development scheme (GWDS); the Yu-
Xia-Yong drainage and well irrigation scheme, the Dongshahe regulation
scheme for protection against river floods and the Qucun pilot
recharge/storage and irrigation scheme.
(b)  increase the productivity of existing low-yieldfarms by crop intensification
and diversification and development of waste land for crops and orchards.
A major effort was placed on converting all rainfed land into fully irrigated
farms and 'providing them with improved packages of support services. The
project also supported seed production and processing activities,
diversification of crop production, construction of greenhouses, and
development of wastelands for fruit production.
(c)   expand livestock production through the effective use of crop residues. The
project supported planting of alfalfa on wasteland to provide feed for cattle
and small ruminants, promoted the raising of small ruminants, introduced
superior breeding stock and improved feed, financed broiler meat processing
and strengthened animal disease control and veterinary services through
provision of medicines, modem production equipment and training.
(d)   develop low-lying areas for fish production. The project financed
construction of fish ponds and associated water supply, water discharge and
electrical facilities; constructed and equipped hatcheries and feed mills; and
supported research and training programs.



2
(e)  invest in agro-processing and agro-industry. Agro-processing and agro-
industries were included in the project to provide linkages from farm
production, through processing and storage to marketing operations and to
provide locally-produced agricultural inputs (seeds, plant growth hormones
and veterinary antibiotics).
(f)  improve the province's ability to manage water resources effectively. The
project strengthened skills in water resources monitoring, planning and
management.
(g)  strengthen research, extension and environmental protection programs by
providing equipment, technical assistance and training.
2.   These objectives were clear and well-formulated, based on considerable preparation
work by the Bank and the Borrower. The objectives were consistent with the strategies
emphasized by Henan province during the eighth and ninth national "Five-year Plans" to
more rapidly increase farm incomes, address poverty, and guarantee a sustained increase
in the production of basic agricultural products. The emphasis on the integration of
production, processing and marketing is regarded as the project's distinguishing
characteristic, and this emphasis is being replicated in subsequent (non-World Bank)
projects in the province. The project objectives also supported the Bank Group's country
assistance strategy in the agricultural sector, with emphasis on increasing and
diversifying agricultural production through more efficient use of land, labor and capital
resources and through the improvement of support services such as credit, research, and
agricultural education.
3.  In general, the project component designs made realistic assumptions regarding
availability of improved technologies for water resource use, agriculture, horticulture,
aquaculture and livestock production. Concerning the agro-industries components, choice
of investment components was based on selection criteria developed to ensure
consistency with project objectives as well as sufficient FRR to service debts and provide
dividends to local investors and capital growth for the companies.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4. The project has successfully met full SAR (or mid-term review revised) targets for
all components. The irrigation and drainage component completed construction, with the
total area benefited reported at about 274,000 ha, 97% of the SAR target. Overall, the
project's irrigation objective was substantially achieved. The agriculture component
provided 21,500 t of DAP and TSP fertilizer (108%) to farmers. Construction of tunnel
greenhouses completed its target by 118%. Improvement in agricultural extension
stations at county and township levels was fully realized. Planting of windbreaks and
wickers, and orchard development for apples, pomegranates, plums, apricots and grapes
and rehabilitation of Chinese date orchards and mulberry plantations all reached 100% of
the corresponding SAR target. The livestock component surpassed the SAR targets, with
solid results of 153% and 279% for the goat and sheep sub-components. Fish ponds
completed 101% of the mid-term-revised target. The construction of 11 agro-industrial



3
or agro-processing plants and 16 seed processing centers financed by the project was
completed. All agro-processing plants and 11 of the seed processing plants are in
commercial operation. The remaining five seed processing plants have just completed
commissioning. All scientific research under each component was completed. Some
research projects received provincial awards and some results have been extended to
other for production practices.  Training for technicians, farmers and PMO staff
conducted under the project reached their SAR targets.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
5.  The Credit became effective on August 23, 1991 and project implementation was
completed on December 31, 1998 (with a one-year extension). In general, project
implementation in its early stages closely followed planned schedules. The Provincial
Project Management Office (PPMO) promptly established after project effectiveness
implementation regulations for management and inspection, organized training on
procurement and prepared procurement documents. The technical bureaus concerned
closely collaborated with PMOs and provided technical support during implementation.
6.  A mid-term review in 1994 made some adjustments in component composition and
size, responding to the market changes and other factors. The major adjustments were
the following: (a) exchange rates had changed such that the SDR depreciated relative to
the US$ and the US$ appreciated with respect to the RMB; (b) a reduction of ICB and
NCB costs for equipment, materials and civil works and cancellation of well pumps,
diesel generators and pesticides. These reductions provided additional funds for the
project and allowed significant, desirable adjustments.
7.  Irrigation and Drainage (I&D). The I&D component took six years to complete
construction (a half-year longer than planned). Project irrigation and drainage works
within the four YRDS covered establishment of new and improved main canals, head
reach desilting basins, main and branch systems (canals, drains and structures), and
lateral and sublateral and on-farm irrigation systems including wells and pumps. Areas
served by the works totaled 138,000 ha at 94% of the target value. These levels of
achievement are similar for all four of the individual YRDS, but there were significant
deviations from target values in the case of canal linings and wells. For canal linings,
only minimal provisions were made in the SAR for one scheme (Shitouzhuang).
However, substantial lining works were executed under the project for two further
schemes (Xiangfuzhu and Qucun), primarily as leakage reduction measures for canal
sections in fill. For shallow conjunctive-use wells, there were provisions for these to be
created or rehabilitated in all of the scheme areas, but only about 50% was achieved of
the larger well-number targets set for two of the schemes (Zhaokou West and Qucun).
The system concepts and designs are generally adequate and appropriate to local
conditions, and the quality of works is generally acceptable, although further
improvement is needed in some structures and gate systems. The basic routine canal
cleaning and light maintenance activities have been undertaken very satisfactorily, but
non-routine heavy maintenance and repair needs are not as well attended. Some
significant water saving successes have been obtained with experimental lateral and
sublateral systems.



4
8.   Ground Water Development Scheme (GWDS) works included installation of
tubewells and pumps together with corresponding electric power transformation,
distribution and control systems. Areas served by the works totalled 84,000 ha, 100% of
the target value. In general, the numbers of submersible pump sets provided also
significantly exceeded target values, but centrifugal pumps provided generally
represented only a small fraction of the corresponding targets. This was because farmers
preferred to obtain or retain their own pumps rather than become dependent on
communal pumps.
9.   Qucun Pilot Recharge/Storage and Irrigation Scheme. Areas served by the
works totalled 5,500 ha, 82% of the planned value. Reported results include reduced
ground water pumping, and stabilized or rising ground water table levels, as was intended
by the project. From a site visit at completion, it was evident that the pilot lateral and
sublateral irrigation network is working as an orderly communal system, contrasting
notably with the somewhat inefficient individualistic mobile-pump irrigation practices in
adjacent areas.
10. Drainage and Flood Protection. The objective of this subcomponent has been
substantially achieved. Some of the project's drainage and flood protection interventions
occurred within the YRDS sub-components. All of these works have also been reported
as complete and operational. Physical works targets were well achieved, as were the
physical impact objectives. The Dongshahe scheme works comprised dredging and
embanking along the river, and provision of bridges, all for river control and regulation.
The length of river attended to was about 91 km, and the area of benefit is 11,500 ha,
both values being equal to the planned values.
11. The institutional development objectives linked to the I&D component were only
partially achieved, as there was only a moderate improvement in provincial water
resources management capabilities. Specific areas identified for project activities
included water resources planning, water resources research and O&M preparations.
Provision was made for corresponding technical assistance and training, but the training
and technical assistance did not raise management capabilities as much as anticipated.
12. Work was carried out on a total of six I&D component studies, or groups of studies,
addressing to some degree most of the topics identified in the SAR. A particularly
noteworthy completed study activity led to the production of comprehensive O&M
guides for each project scheme or scheme type, as was called for at appraisal. It was
concluded from a rapid sample review that these are sensible and practical documents
that should be put to use. Training activities relating directly to the I&D component
included seminars on the design of well irrigation and on-farm works, O&M of project
works, and water resources management in the Yellow River basin. Two study tours to
view irrigation projects in the USA were also conducted; the opportunity to view water
resource developments outside of China was noted to have been very valuable.
13. Agriculture. Estimates at appraisal called for the construction of 20 seed centers
to produce, process and market good quality seed of wheat, rice, maize and soybean. The
seed processing sub-component was not well identified as, in the early years of the



S
project, the county seed companies could see no advantage to processing seeds while
there was no competition for their products in the market place. Four of the seed
companies withdrew from the project. Sixteen centers were completed, but only 11
entered commercial production. Five centers have just completed equipment installation
and commissioning.
14. The project procured 21,500 tons of DAP, 1,575 tons of TSP, and 136 tons of agro-
chemicals to improve soil in the project areas and pesticides for use in major grain crops
and fruit trees. During the mid-term review, the PPMO cancelled the remaining pesticide
procurement of 344 tons due to the high price of imported products.
15. Plans at appraisal called for the construction of 1,125 improved tunnel greenhouses
to allow cultivation of vegetables all year around. The number of greenhouses actually
constructed was 1,325 (118% of SAR). During mid-term review, the PMO proposed to
add 10,000 greenhouses since farmers showed high interest in them, however this was
not possible due to other competing use of funds. Later many farmers invested their own
funds in simpler, less-costly plastic greenhouses of a modified design.
16. Windbreak and Orchard Development. Targets set at appraisal aimed at planting
fast growing poplar trees as windbreaks for protection of 5,600 ha of cropland. This
target has been reached with beneficial effects on improvement of soil conditions and
crop yields. The triangular plant disposition of the windbreak introduced by the project
has been found to be more effective than traditional one-row planting of trees around
canals and roadways. The project rehabilitated 2,000 ha of low-yielding Chinese dates
and established 7,200 ha of various fruit orchards in wastelands (100% of SAR target).
The project supported the use of improved technologies developed by the Bureau of
Forestry, including improved apple, apricot and plum varieties; closer spacing to promote
higher plant density and yield; improved pruning techniques; optimum use of organic and
chemical fertilizers; and improved irrigation. These interventions were successful, but
the yields were lower than the levels estimated at appraisal, except for grapes that
surpassed appraisal estimates by about 4 t/ha. Apple orchards established under the
project are well managed, show healthy and vigorous plants, are well pruned, have good
flower setting and should produce a high yield of good-quality apples. Farmers seem to
be knowledgeable about most aspects of orchard management. Support services are in
place and accessible to farmers.
17. The project strengthened agricultural extension centers in 20 counties and 80
townships. Funds were also provided for conducting eight research studies and technical
workshops on annual crops, and two studies on agro-forestry to strengthen linkages
between research and extension services. Funds were provided for an extensive training
program for technical staff, and for farmers to upgrade their skills in crop production. All
necessary extension equipment has been acquired, and eight research studies on crops
and two on agro-forestry have been completed. In total more than 95,000 persons
(approximately 98% of the farmers in the project area) have been trained in improved
technologies for crop production. Additionally, training in orchard management, disease
control, silkworm raising and other forestry related subjects were provided to 23,739
farmers, 45% of whom were women. Most research completed has been published, some
in English. Research results, especially with regard to improved varieties and hybrids,



6
cropping and fertilization practices and pest control, seem to have been effectively
transferred to farmer's fields.
18. Livestock. The project planned to support the planting of 10,500 ha of alfalfa in
wastelands by 1,200 households to provide improved feed for cattle and small ruminants.
At the time of the mid-term review, only 384 households had planted about 1,920 ha.
Alfalfa production was then cancelled because of heavy floods in the production area,
low net profit and lack of interest by participating farrners. The cancellation did not
affect livestock production since farmers used crop by-products and ammoniated straw as
feed.
19. Specialized households for raising cattle, goats, sheep, pigs and broilers were
supported under the project.  Targets set for establishment of specialized cattle
households have been met. The 3,000 specialized households (100% of SAR estimate)
have an actual inventory of 39,000 heads of cattle (173% of SAR). The project supported
the establishment of 5,700 specialized goat households (114% of SAR) and 3,000 sheep
households (100% of SAR). These households marketed, in 1998, 216,600 head of goats
(153% of SAR) and 138,000 head of sheep (279% of SAR). All targets set at appraisal
for pig production have been reached or exceeded. In 1998, specialized households
marketed 272,000 lean pigs (fifteen-fold above the SAR estimate) and commercial farms
50,000 pigs (131% of SAR). Two breeding farms provided 48,000 weaned pigs to
specialized households.  Targets set for broiler production during SAR were the
construction of seven processing plants and participation of 1,800 specialized households,
but during mid-term review these targets were revised to three processing plants, the
involvement of 2,400 households and the addition of one breeding farrn. All modified
targets have been reached. Specialized households produced 5.85 million birds (111% of
SAR) for the market, and the breeding farm was able to deliver 4 million one-day old
chicks to specialized households in 1998.
20. Five research studies under the livestock component were completed (with four
planned at appraisal), 1,343 technical staff were trained (112% of SAR) and more than
31,300 farmers (261% of SAR) participated in various types of livestock training
activities.
21. Aquaculture. This was a new type of production for farmers. The Provincial
Aquaculture Bureau provided technical assistance and sent technicians to the villages to
supervise farmers and help to solve problems. The accomplishments reported were the
construction of 1,426 ha of production ponds (including 446.7 ha added during the mid-
term review), 78 ha of nursery ponds (some built in conjunction with fish ponds) and 4
feed mills that produced a total of 18,300 tons of fish feed (106% of SAR). The
fishponds are well constructed and maintained and productivity is good, except for silver
carp, which is not profitable due mainly to low market prices. Although construction of
nursery ponds fell below appraisal estimates, the current production of fingerlings is
enough to stock all production ponds. Among several research studies on aquaculture
funded by the project, one received an award for excellence from the Provincial Water
Conservancy Department. Research results indicate the potential to increase yields from
10 tlha to 15 t/ha/year. A total of 3,643 persons, including farmers and technicians, have
been trained under the aquaculture component.



7
22. The agro-processing plants were well selected and in retrospect no changes would
have been made to the selection criteria. During appraisal, seven plants were selected and
at mid-term review four additional plants were approved. Implementation of the eleven
agro-processing plants has been excellent and the processing plants have been
constructed to a high standard and are in profitable commercial operation. The factories
are closely linked to the production activities of the project and create a demand (or a
market) for the agriculture and livestock components, and thereby address the main
project objectives of increasing rural incomes and employment opportunities. One
company has been less commercially successful due to over-investment. Wuzhi
Sheepskin Plant decided to expand its construction scale without reference to the Bank, to
include tanning 240,000 cattle hides per year. This increased its borrowing to more than
90% of investment cost. The plant is in commercial operation but has to pay most of its
profits to the local banks for debt servicing.
23. Procurement. Before project effectiveness, the PPMO organized procurement
training for staff responsible, covering procurement procedures for goods, civil works, and
consultants and preparation of bidding documents. This speeded up the procurement
process, which is a common source of delays in overall project progress. The ICB tendering
company was Chinese National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
(MACHIMPEX), which organized in coordination with the PPMO the bidding, evaluation
and contract awards for goods. NCB procurement for goods was conducted by the Henan
Provincial Machinery and Equipment Bureau. Other goods procurement was handled by the
project participants themselves. NCB for works was conducted by the project participants
themselves under the PPMO's supervision. There were 99 ICB contracts including
equipment, vehicles and materials valued at Y279.3 million. The remaining goods were
procured through 83 NCB contacts valued at Y138.2 million. Civil works was procured
through 36 NCB contracts valued at Y294.1 million, and the remainder was procured by
direct shopping or carried out under force account. In general, equipment procured met the
technical standards. Ex-post procurement review of local procurement was done during
Bank's supervision missions. They are found acceptable.
24. Disbursement. In the first two years, the project began disbursement more rapidly
than expected (167% and 109% respectively), and slowed down in the following two years,
basically returning to the planned schedule. The last IDA credit disbursement was on March
19, 1999, following by credit closure on December 31, 1998. The total amount disbursed
was $116.5 million, higher than the original credit amount of $110 million equivalent due to
the depreciation of the dollar against SDR. SDR 81.3 million was disbursed with a
cancellation of SDR 114,625.
25. Project Costs. Due to dual exchange rates, which changed during the
implementation period, the investment costs actually expended totalled Y1.81 billion,
equivalent to $245.6 million, of which the IDA financed SDR 81.3 million, or $116.5
million equivalent. Compared to the SAR estimates of project investment costs and IDA
credit, the former totalled 112 percent of estimates in terms of US dollars, but 156
percent in terms of local currency (RMB), due to appreciation of the US dollar relative to
the RMB; and for the IDA credit, 99.9 percent in SDRs and 103.8 percent in US dollar
terms.



8
D. PROJECT IMPACT
26. Increasing Income and Employment. The objective of the project was to
alleviate poverty in several of the poorest counties by increasing crop, livestock and fish
production and agro-processing. The significant expansion and improvement of all
irrigation schemes resulted in increases in cropping intensity from 167% to more than
192% in most areas; and in better irrigation. The availability of and accessibility to
improved seeds, fertilizer and pesticides resulted in a yield increase in major crops and
farmers' incomes. There were about 56,000 farm households involved in livestock,
orchard development, and fish pond production. Farmers earned on average Y7,000-
10,000/household/year additional income from raising animals and poultry. The
development of greenhouses has substantially increased income to farmers by an average
of Y 4,000/household/year. The income generated from livestock, vegetables and fruit is
in addition to that from grain production, and is therefore a second major source of
income. The agro-processing factories provide 6,780 full-time jobs, of which 56% went
to women, and seasonal jobs for 230,400 people, of which 60% went to women.
27. Poverty Reduction. Most of the project areas are located in poor counties. The
project activities have promoted local economic development by changing the economic
and agricultural production structures, which have increased the proportion of high-
valued crops, livestock, and aquaculture. The agro-processing factories in some counties
are the first industrial factories, which created non-farming employment opportunities.
The farmers' net per capita income on average in the project area increased from Y550
before the project (1991) to Y2,179 (1998); annual growth rate of incomes reached to
26%, while it was 21.5% for provincial average during same period.
28.  Integration of production, processing, and marketing.  The project was
designed to establish an integrated system linking production, processing and marketing,
in which the processing plant is the core of the system and contracts with farmers for raw
material supply and establishes a market network to ensure sales of processed products.
A similar model was applied to livestock production, in that breeding farms contracted
with farmers to provide either sows or piglets and took responsibility for selling fattened
pigs with a (similar approach for chicken breeding farms). The breeding farms provided
credit and technical assistance to the farmers.  The Bank encouraged all processing
enterprises to find commercial partners to take equity positions in their processing plants,
and also to form commercial companies that could take better advantage of market
opportunities.
29. Dissemination of Research Results. The project has completed 26 scientific
research projects covering water resource conservancy, agriculture, forestry, aquaculture,
and livestock. More than one third of the research received awards. Some of the results
have been applied in production practice, helping producers to increase yield and
benefits.
30. Demonstration Impact. The project activities have shown great impact on
surrounding areas. Non-project farmers learned from the project. For example, tunnel



9
greenhouses provided an additional opportunity to expand production and income
sources, and a lot of farmers expressed their interest, so during mid-term review, an
additional 10,000 units were proposed. Some 83,200 farm households have built their
own greenhouses. The integrated system established under the project has exhibited its
vitality. This kind of integrated approach will be the basis for future development of the
rural economy.
31. Environmental Impact. The irrigation and drainage system is functioning in
providing sufficient water for crop production, and an improved local agro-ecological
environment through reduced natural disasters and improved soil fertility. Windbreaks
and orchard development, and manure from livestock production also largely improved
soil fertility. The design for the environmental pollution control system for agro-
processing plants has been approved by the PEPB, and treatment effectiveness has been
established during plant trials. All tests have passed the provincial environmental
inspection. The plants have been issued with the relevant certification.
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
32. Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Natural floods resulted
in low alfalfa yields and alfalfa production was subsequently withdrawn from the project
due to a lack of interest by participating farmers. Two equipment suppliers to the project
delayed the delivery of equipment, causing a cost increase to the factories as a result of
construction delays.
33. Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Local governments at all
levels paid a great deal of attention and provided strong support to the project, which
played a key role in its success. However, implementation of the seven agro-processing
plants was delayed due to difficulties in raising counterpart funding and working capital
at the county level. The absence of these funds substantially delayed the awarding of
NCB civil works and equipment contracts. ICB bidding was also slower than anticipating
due to complex clearance procedures for internal processing. Indecisive directives in
revolving fund management by the provincial BOF affected the effectiveness of these
revolving funds. During implementation, revolving funds for livestock raising, and well
construction and rehabilitation were established but not well managed by the county
BOFs. This contributed to limited re-lending of the proceeds from the revolving funds,
as designed by the project. Water charges providing for O&M of I&D works were
increased during the period of the project, as foreseen at appraisal. However, there were
indications at completion that water charges still did not cover all O&M costs, in
particular those for heavier non-routine repairs as opposed to routine maintenance
activities.
34. Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The establishment
of implementation administrations at the PMOs ensured a clear responsibility chain for
staff as well as procedures for implementation and acceptance during the implementation
period. Pre-prepared procurement documents accelerated implementation and avoided
some delays. In general, implementation was well managed by the PPMO and PMOs at
all levels and most facilities set up under the project are working well. With one



10
exception, all processing plants are well managed and their managers have autonomy as
commercial enterprises. The processing sub-components are well selected and form
close linkages between agricultural and livestock production under the project, and the
market place. The processing plant designs are all based on good quality international
standards equipment, that would provide processing efficiencies equivalent to those in
developed countries, and products that can compete in quality and price with the
equivalent imports. The technology level at each processing plant is of a very high
standard, and project personnel are trained, mainly by the process engineering
contractors, to operate and maintain all of the processes and equipment.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35. The project is potentially sustainable. Implementation of the project has provided
excellent facilities for production, processing and marketing of agricultural, livestock and
aquaculture products, but sustainability depends on measures taken to ensure future
operation. First, the government agricultural development policy will continue to support
the project through promotion of the household responsibility system, support to the
social service system, and development of the rural market economy. Second, the
production facilities developed under the project have begun full-scale operation, the
irrigation and drainage system is in place and operating well and of benefit to crop
production, farm household incomes have increased through their livestock raising
activities, and agro-processing factories are in commercial operation and making profits.
Thus, stakeholders have every reason to maintain facilities and continue operations
developed by the project. Third, the project has improved the local ecological system,
including flood and drought control, soil fertility and reduction of wind erosion. The
Henan Provincial Government has demonstrated an adequate capacity to handle the
project. Several IDA missions have discussed with the PMOs the project's future
operation and their recommendations were well-received.
36. Although the project has laid down a good foundation, Government support is still
essential. Specifically, the following recommendations are made for a continued
government role: (a) technical inputs need to be provided from the relevant technical
bureaus on a regular basis; (b) training of personnel on production techniques, enterprise
management and product marketing should be organized and continued on a regular
basis; (c) key personnel of the PMO should continue to be available for this important
coordination role in the future; (d) the successful management experience of project
enterprises should be disseminated to the entire project; (e) adequate funding for support
services for O&M should be provided; (f) loan repayment schedules for loan recipients
need to be kept and enforced; and (g) an appropriate water charge system, which can
cover maintenance costs for I&D system, needs to be adopted.
37. The processing factories have each been given support at provincial level in
financing, manpower and material resources, and this has been followed through at
county level. Official support for sustainable commercial operation is, therefore, fairly
secure, and favorable tax benefits are available to the plants. In order to benefit fully
from the commercial potential of the factories, all of the enterprises have restructured into
limited liability companies, and have been seeking partners or shareholders to inject



11
equity and working capital. Injection of equity should reduce debt burdens and bring the
factories into higher profitability early in their operating life. At the present level of
commercial operation, the sustainability of the factories is fairly well assured.
38. Overall sustainability of the I&D component is considered likely, for several
reasons: (a) the project works are of simple and adequate design and construction, and
are therefore amenable to easy repair and maintenance; (b) irrigation in the region is a
sporadic event, so that the irrigation works will probably have low usage levels and
therefore extended useful lives; (c) the long off-season periods provide sufficient time
and opportunity to undertake needed repairs and maintenance tasks without interfering
with irrigation operations; (d) there is considerable local commitment to routine upkeep
and maintenance, generated in part by the realization of significant financial benefits as a
result of the project; and there is visual evidence that completed works are being well
looked after to this extent; and, finally, (e) local WCB O&M institutional facilities,
structures and commitments are in place, as is the appreciation at provincial level of the
outstanding requirements for achieving satisfactory long-term performance of the I&D
systems and the benefits to be gained from them.
39. Major yield increases have been achieved in the production of annual crops, fruit
trees, livestock and fish, which have resulted in higher net farm income. This has been
possible through the correct and large-scale use of improved technologies, supported by
strong research/extension programs and the timely delivery of other important support
services such as chemical inputs, irrigation, credit, training and marketing.  The
sustainability of these requires that the concerned line bureaus maintain similar or higher
levels of support to agricultural development in the project areas. Most infrastructure is
in place, personnel is well trained, initial momentum has been gained, but constant
attention should be given to field implementation of production practices.
40. The adoption rate of improved technologies, including improved crop varieties,
high quality seeds, correct use of chemical inputs, better designed tunnel greenhouses,
construction of fishponds and livestock raising facilities, has been substantial within and
outside project areas. However, a number of these activities may require initial capital
not available to many poor families. An adequate credit scheme, using revolving funds
created under the project or other schemes, must remain in place for the continued
application and further expansion of these profitable practices.
G. IDA PERFORMANCE
41. Project Design and Appraisal. The IDA performance has been assessed by the
Provincial Project Management Office as 'highly satisfactory'. The PPMO ICR report
details the Bank's inputs in providing technical advice and guidance at many key periods
in project preparation, appraisal and implementation, particularly concerning process
plant design, equipment specification, and procurement.  A  number of detailed
discussions on project design for each component and evaluation of the project's
technical and financial viability and impact were carried out by IDA missions and the
borrower. The success at project completion has strongly proven its design to be sound.



12
42. Supervision. IDA had scheduled eight supervision missions to the project. The
supervision missions, comprised of technical specialists and economists, have provided
assistance to PPMO to solve technical problems and conducted a dialogue with senior
government officials to motivate counterpart funding and settlement of other issues.
Assistance with procurement procedures was provided by IDA Headquarters. IDA has
also provided commercial and operational guidance in getting the project supported
factories into profitable production. Bank recommendations to commercialize these
companies, and assistance in finding partners to take equity in the plants and provide
financial and commercial strength to the enterprises, has been effective, and is
continuing. The project task team and the project management staff have established a
close and harmonious collaborative working relationship.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
43. The borrower's performance throughout the project has been rated as 'highly
satisfactory'. The PMOs at various levels have performed well throughout the project,
providing an essential link between the implementing agencies and the government
departments and line bureaus with which they have needed to interact. The Provincial
Government has paid great attention to the project and formed a Project Leading Group
(PLG) to instruct, supervise, and coordinate project preparation and implementation. The
PPMO and involved technical departments have worked closely with IDA preparation
missions to design, prepare, and evaluate every component. The "Henan Provincial
Technical Advisor Group", comprising technical experts has provided technical
assistance to the project during preparation and implementation. The PPMO has been
particularly active in the implementation and follow-up of procurement and training, and
in providing IDA with clear data and reports during supervision missions. The quality
and performance of their work has been good, and an important aspect has been the
stability of the counterpart team. The agro-industries team has been with the project since
its onset, and has carried out their tasks with considerable expertise. The PPMO and
technical department have prepared an excellent ICR and supporting data, which were
very helpful to IDA's ICR mission. The Bank ICR mission has congratulated them on
the excellent outcome of their work.
44. Particular mention is merited on the good work done and expertise provided by
CITICAD (Beijing) during project appraisal, and also on the international processing
experts that were employed by Henan PPMO to assist with preparation of the technical
specifications and process plant designs. The Finance Bureaus have also played a key
role in successful implementation of the agro-industries component.



13
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45. The project's physical construction targets were successfully achieved. The project
has demonstrated its economic, social, and environmental impacts in. the project as well
as surrounding areas. Agro-industrial factories have been in commercial operation and
generating significant cash flows. The Province, the Prefecture and the County
administration, the farmers and the workers in the processing plants, are satisfied with the
success of this project.
46. The integrated system which links processing backward to production (the farm
households) and forward to marketing has demonstrated its viability and has set an
example for rural development. Female participation in project production activities and
training has reached over 45%. The farm households engaged in livestock, orchards, and
aquaculture activities have benefited from the project, not only through increases in
income averaging over Y 10,000 (US$ 1,205) per annum, but also through assimilation of
advanced production techniques. The poverty status of the project areas has thus
significantly improved. The results of scientific research under the project have been
applied to production practices, and the training of farmers and project management staff
has promoted human resource development. The overall economic rate of return of the
project is estimated at 40%, compared to 35.8% as estimated at appraisal. Overall, the
project achievement is rated satisfactory, with highly satisfactory ratings for the
livestock, aquaculture and agro-processing components.
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS
47. In order to maintain and increase project impact, the project would still need
support from the provincial government in carrying out policies, providing technical
assistance, and securing funding for future operations. In particular, adequate funding
needs to be provided for agricultural support services. County-based revolving funds that
have been successfully implemented will continue to be used for project participants to
support expansion to more farm households in surrounding areas. A further gradual
increase of the water charge from 0.04 yuan/m3 to 0.08 yuan/m3 by the year 2001 is under
consideration and should be implemented. The YRDS water balance study should
continue to be used to formulate sound water resources management plans for the region.
The O&M plan, especially thorough maintenance, needs to be implemented. Research on
efficient water saving techniques should be completed and the results applied. Successful
project experiences in enterprise management should be introduced throughout the
province. Each of the processing plants has provided ample evidence of the advantages
of the linkage approach to plant operation and commercial activities.
48. In response to market variation, the production structure and variety of products
needs to be continuously reassessed and adjusted. Current demand for fish and meat
(including chicken and pork) is declining, which has driven market prices down. The
PMO's and technical bureaus should provide market information to the project areas and
assist enterprises and farmers to react to market changes with adjustment in their
production and product ranges. Establishment of a market information network would be
of great value to enterprises and farm households.



14
K. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49. To stimulate foreign capital investment in agricultural projects, a comprehensive
approach to design is essential. The establishment of an integrated system that links
production, processing and marketing is necessary for the optimum utilization of resources
and maximum benefit. This should be the preferred direction for future development for the
agricultural sector. Contractual relationships establishing forward and backward linkages
between companies and farm households, companies, production bases and farm
households, can mutually benefit all parties and reduce market risk, thereby addressing the
main project objectives of increasing rural income and employment.
50. Throughout project implementation, leadership, management and technical support
has been stable at each component, with very few changes in senior staff. This stability in
the organization has undoubtedly been a significant favorable influence on the outcome
of the project. The establishment of comprehensive and detailed implementation procedures
has also helped to assure a successful project. These procedures include the specification of
staff responsibilities, inspection requirements, and procedures for project planning,
procurement, civil works construction, finance, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and
training.
51. The selection of superior plant design and excellent equipment has been a key
factor in attracting private sector partners to invest in the processing plants. The provision
of initial working capital for agro-processing has also been essential to assist factories to
start operations after the installation and commissioning of equipment. Initial working
capital can be arranged either from the project or from commercial banks. The project
overestimated the availability of working capital for factories, which caused some factories
to operate under capacity. Ownership reform for agro-industrial companies, either through
the formation of limited liability companies or shareholding companies, has helped them to
focus on commercial operations, expand their marketing networks, and resolve shortages of
equity and working capital.
52. The management of revolving funds needs to be improved. The project set up
revolving funds for well construction and livestock raising. Because of lack of
understanding by key players in the provincial Bureau of Finance, and in some counties of
the purpose of the revolving funds, many of the county funds were not allowed to revolve
and therefore did not make the projected contributions they were supposed to make. Despite
close supervision, the situation did not improve as much as it should have. While the
revolving fund concept remains viable in China, as demonstrated in other projects, this
project has shown that, unless strong support is given by bureau of finance officials, the
funds are unlikely to be fully effective.
53. The decentralization of responsibility for implementation of irrigation and drainage
works, and subsequent O&M, requires substantial support from the province to develop
the necessary local technical, managerial and financial capabilities. Project support
should extend beyond the preparation of water resources management, and O&M plans to
cover technical and institutional implementation. For the technically efficient and cost



15
effective piloting of new irrigation technology, use should be made of the best available
international expertise.
54. Environmental improvement under the project was based on the combination of
irrigation and windbreaks. This successful combination should be implemented in other
areas prone to wind erosion.
55. Adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds is a prerequisite to smooth
implementation on schedule; lack of counterpart funds inevitably leads to implementation
delay and increases in project cost.



16
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             X
Sector policies                                    X
Financial objectives                 X
Institutional development            X
Physical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                    X
Gender issues                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives             X
Public sector management             X
Private sector development           X
B. Project Sustainability                        Likely        Unlikely        Uncertain
x
C. IDA Performance                               Highly       Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                                    X
Preparation assistance                             X
Appraisal                                          X
Supervision                                        X
D. Borrower Performance                          Highly       Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                X
Operation (if applicable)                                         X
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
x



17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose         Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. North China Plain Agriculture  Irrigation Development   FY82   Complete
(Cr.1261-CHA)                 & Land Improvement               d
2. Gansu Provincial Development    Irrigation & Agriculture   FY85  Complete
(Cr.1793-CHA/Ln.2812-CHA)    Development                       d
3. Shaaxi Agricultural Development  Irrigation & Agriculture   FY89  Complete
(Cr.1997-CHA)                 Development                      d
4. Hebei Agricultural Development  Irrigation & Agriculture  FY91  Complete
(Cr.2159-CHA)                 Development                      d
Following Operations
1. Sichuan Agriculture Development  Irrigation & Agricultural  FY92  To be
(Cr. 241 1-CHA)               Development                      completed
in 12/99
2. Anning Agricultural Development Irrigation & Agricultural  FY99  Active
(Cr. 3165-CHA/Ln. 4436-CHA)   Development
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Date Actual
Identification                    May 7, 1989          May 15, 1989
Pre-appraisal                     May 19, 1990         May-June, 1990
Appraisal                         October 12, 1990     Oct.-Nov., 1990
Negotiations                      March 18, 1990       April 1-14, 1991
Board Presentation                May 23, 1991         May 14, 1991
Signing                           June 20, 1991        June 20,1991
Effectiveness                     August 23, 1991      August 23, 1991
Mid-Term Review                   October 31, 1993     July 1994
Project Completion                December 31, 1996    December 31, 1998
Credit Closing                    December 31,1997     December 31, 1998



18
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$'000)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97              FY98      FY99
Appraisal estimate          10,000   26,000   50,000   77,000   94,000  105,000   110,000
Actual                      15,829   28,327   46,013   69,728   99,948  110,227   115,968   116,547
Actual as% ofadjusted          158       109       92        91       106      105        105       106
estimate
Date of final disbursement                                                                     3/18/99
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project          Key Implementation Indicators Unit         SAR         MTR         Actual
Component        in SAR/President's Report                  Estimated   Adjusted
IRRIGATION, DRAINAGE & WELLS
1. YRDS, Drainage & River Regulation Schemes
A. Development Areas                            ha          146,500     146,500    138,093
B. Earth Works    Desilting Basins             No.              10      3           3
Main Canal Linings           '00OM3       25,143      25,143      20,643
Gates & Buildings             No.          2,635      2,535       2,956
Branch Canals                '00OM3       23,245      23,245      20,127
Gates & Buildings             No.         46,905      46,905      37,574
C. New Structures  Regulators/offtakes         No.          984        984          1,280
Bridges                       No.         1,640       1,640       2,137
Lateral/sublateral/on-farm    No.         45,600      43,341      45,440
D. Installation of Equipment
Pumps/motors                  Sets        4,300       Canceled
E. Well Irrigation
Shallow Wells                 No.         4,900       4,900       3,104
2. Groundwatei Well Irrigation
A. Development Area                             ha          84,000      84,000      83,700
B. Well Construction
Shallow Wells - New           No.         8,932       8,932       9,557
Shallow Wells - Rehab.        No.         3,617       3,617       4,021



19
C. New Pump Sets
Submersible                  No.         8,366       8,366       6,689
Centrifugal/electric         No.         4,058       4,058       1,185
3. Yu-Xia-Yong Drainage and Well Irrigation Scheme
A. Development Area                            ha          40,200      40,200     40,200
B. Surface Drainage/canals
Improved Main/canal          km          160         160         160
New Lateral/sublateral/on-farm    km     800         800         682
C. New Structure
Bridges/culverts             No.         122         122         126
Lateral/sublateral/on-farm   No.         2,160       2,160       2,598
D. Well Construction
Shallow Wells - New          No.         1,280       1,280       1,300
Shallow Wells - Rehab.       No.         1,672       1,672       1,703
4. Dongshahe Regulation Scheme
A. Development Area                            ha          11,500      11,500      11,500
B. Construction
River Control/regulation     km          91.4        91.4        91.4
Dredging/embanking           mil.M3      4.5         4.5         4.5
Bridges                      No.         74          74          79
5. Qucun Pilot Recharge/Storage and Irrigation Scheme
A. Scheme Area                                 ha          6,700       6,700       5,500
B. New Canal/drains
New Lining                   krn         35          35          20
Main/branch                  km          100         100         100
Lateral/sublateral/on-farm   No.         217         217         173
C. New Structure
Mainlbranch                  No.         48          48          98
Lateral/sublateral/on-farm   No.         718         718         3,877
AGRICULTURE:
1. Inputs Procurement
DAP Imports                  Tons        21,500      21,500      21,500
TSP Imports                   Tons       100         100         100
Urea                         Tons        1,575       1,575       1,575
Pesticide Imports            Tons        480         135.8       135.8
2. Construction & Rehabilitation
Seed Processing Centers      No.         20          16          16
Greenhouses                  No.         1,125       11,125      1,325
3. Agricultural Support Services



20
Township Extension Station  No.         80          80         80
County Plant Protection Station   No.   20         20          20
County Extension Station    No.         20         20          20
FRUIT & TREE DEVELOPMENT
1. Orchards
Apple                        ha         6,354       6,868      6,687
Apricot                      ha         800         800        800
Grape                       ha          200        200         200
Plum                         ha         400         400        400
Pomegranate                  ha         800        466         466
Dates Rehabilitation         ha         2,000       2,000      2,000
MulberrY`a                   ha         -           2,667      2,667
2. Windbreak                                  ha         5,600       5,600       5,601
3. Wickers                                    ha          1,500      1,500       1,500
4. Mulberry Plantation/a                      ha         -           2,667       2,667
LIVESTOCK
Beef Cattle                  HH         3,000       3,000      3,300
Sheep                       HH          1,500       3,000      3,540
Hide Goat                    HH         4,000       5,500      5,700
Alfalfa Production          HH          1,200       384        384
Boiler Production           HH          2,100       300        2,400
Pig Raising                 HH          300         3,400      3,800
Commercial Pig Farm         No.         6           8          6
Pig Breeding Farm/a         No.         -           2          2
Chicken Breeding Farm/a     No.         -           I          I
Chicken Slaughter Line      No.         7           3          3
Chicken Slaughter Line       No.        7           3          3
ACQUACULTURE
Fish Ponds                  ha          1,014       1,481      1,493
Hatchery                    ha          63.5        63.5       77.6
Feed Mill                    No.        4           7          4
Fish Meal Procurement/a      Tons       -           1,893      1,893
AGRO-INDUSTRY
Changyuan Paper Mill        ton/year    11,000      15,000     13,500
Wuzhi Paper Mill            ton/year    30,900      25,000     5,200
Wenxian Cornstarch          ton/year    15,000      17,000     10,600
Puyang Bio-products         ton/year    110         3,000      15,000
Wuzhi Cold Store            ton/year    1,500       1,500      1,000
Tongxu Cold Store           ton/year    1,500       1,500      1,000
Yuanyang Cold Store         ton/year    1,500       1,500      1,000
Kafeng Board Mill/a         ton/year    -           30,000     38,000
Jiyuan IQF Plant'           ton/year    -           5,000      24,000
Puyang Silk Mill"           ton/year    -           100        80
Wuzhi Sheepskin milla       '000piece/year -        510        240
16 Seed Processing plants   ton/year    78,900      78,900     50,836



21
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING
1. Domestic Training
Agriculture  County Technicians          Person-day  632         632         816
Township Technicians         Person-day  1,280       1,280       1,285
Farmers                      Person-day  109,161     109,161   102,995
Forestry   County Technicians            Person-day  540         540         818
Township Technicians         Person-day  11,300      11,300      16,974
Farmers                      Person-day  3,900       3,900       5,947
Livestock   County Technicians           Person-day  931         931         980
Township Technicians         Person-day  156         156         350
Farmers                      Person-day  24,513      24,513      30,000
Aquaculture Technicians & farmers        Person-day  3,600       3,600       3,643
Water Conservancy
Technicians                  Person-day  50          50          50
Agro-industrial Plants
Changyuan Paper Mill         Man-year   500          500         680
Wuzhi Paper Mill             Man-mon   500           500         170
Wenxian Comstarch            Man-mon   156.4         156.4       300
Puyang Bio-products          Man-mon   700           700         258
Wuzhi Cold Store             Man-mon   5             5           3
Tongxu Cold Store            Man-mon   8.9           8.9         4.5
Yuanyang Cold Store          Man-mon   8             8           4
Wuzhi Sheepskin Mill"'       Man-mon   100           100         0
Kaifeng Board Mill"          Man-mon   -             3,024       166
Jiyuan IQF Planta            Man-mon   -             150         977
Puyang Silk Mill/            Man-mon   -             200         480
2. Overseas Training
Study Tours                  No.         6           6           6
Participants                 No.         34          34          34
3. International Consultants                   Man-time   12           12          14
4. Project Management
Procurement                  Person-day  250         250         260
Launch Workshop              Person-day  720         720         720
Engineering Management       Person-day  1,340       1,340       1,345
Application of Computer      Person-day  1,400       1,400       405
Project management           Person-day  1,400       1,400       1,440
/a Added at mid-term review.
/b Training was provided by the equipment supplier.



22
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Item Description                SAR Estimated                 Actual for Year 1998
Incr. Area  Yield    Incr.      Incr. Area  Yield    Incr.
('OOOha)   (ton/ha)   Production  ('OOOha)   (ton/ha)   Production
('000 ton)                      ('OOOton)
A. Crop
(1) Zhaokou West YRDS
1. Wheat                 50          4        65          55         5.69     114.4
2. Corn                  15          4.5      30          15.3       7.2       41.5
3. Sweet Potato           2          4         1.6         4.3       6.8       10.32
4. Cotton                19          1         5.7        21.1       1.05       6.33
5. Peanuts               18          2.5      18          19.4       3.44      30.1
6. Soybean                4.5        1.6       1.35        3.4       3          4.76
7. Rapeseed               3.3        1.7       1.65        0.47      1.88       0.53
8. Watermelon             2.5       30        12.5         2.1      31.6       44.6
9. Vegetables             1.9       30        11.4         1.9      44.3       65.2
(2) Xiangfuzhu YRRD
1. Wheat                 17          4        22.1        20.9       6.17     47.4
2. Com                    5.6        4.5      11.2         6.95      6.69      13.1
3. Paddy                  6          4.5       9           6.17      7.51      12.3
4. Sweet Potato           0.2        4         0.16        1.02      6.54       2
5. Cotton                 4.2        1         1.26        4.07      0.93       0.32
6. Peanuts                3          2.5       3           2.6       4.35       6.5
7. Soybean                1.6        1.6       0.48        1.21      1.9        1
8. Rapeseed               2          1.7       1           0.43      1.5        1.4
9. Water melon                                             0.21     29.1        1.8
10. Vegetables            0.9       30         5.4         1.46     39.26     22.86
(3) Shitouzhuang YRDS
1. Wheat                 12          4        15.6        15.4       5.86     36.3
2. Corn                   4          4.5       6.8         7.18      5.43       5.96
3. Sweet Potato           0.2        4         0.16        0.73      6.8        0.37
4. Cotton                 3          1         0.9         2.13      0.8        3.62
5. Peanuts                1.7        2.2       1.19        1.45      3.74       0.83
6. Soybean                0.7        1.6       0.21        0.92      1.8        0.37
7. Rapeseed                1.4       1.7       0.7         0.34      1.6        0.14
8. Water melon                                             0.13     30.8        1.08
9. Vegetables             0.8       30         4.8         1.24     36.4       20.3
(4) Shangqiu D& Well
1. Wheat                 18.0        4        23.4        37.8       4.92      55.94
2. Corn                  10          4.5      17          24.9       5.65      39.34
3. Sweet Potato           0.9        4         7.2         2.7       4.2        2.6
4. Cotton                 6.8        0.9       1.36        4         0.82       0.8
5. Peanuts                 1         2.5       1           1.35      2.9        0.61
6. Soybean                 1.2       1.6       0.48        2.21      1.95       1.1
7. Rapeseed                1.4       1.7       0.7
8. Water melon                                             1.15     21          4.6
9. Vegetables              1        30         7           4.9      31.6       38.22



23
Item Description                 SAR Estimated                  Actual for Year 1998
Incr. Area  Yield    Incr.       Incr. Area  Yield     Incr.
('OOOha)   (ton/ha)   Production  ('OOOha)   (ton/ha)  Production
('000 ton)                        ('OOOton)
B. Forestry
(1) Apple Orchard       6,687        22.5     150.5      6,687       22          147
(2) Apricot Orchard      800         15        12         800         9.75/a       7.8
(3) Plum Orchard         400         15         6        2,000       12.8/a        5.1
(4) Grape Orchard        200         22.5       4.5       200        45            9
(5) Pomegranate          466         15         7         466         6.4          3
(6) Date Rehab.         2,000         1.9       3.8      2,000        1.65         3.3
C. Aquaculture
(1) Fish Pond           1,049        10        10.5      1,493       15           22.4
(2) Fish Feedmill          4       2,500        8.5         4      2,500           8
Item Description                 SAR Estimated                  Actual for Year 1998
No. of    Animal/  Total        No. of     Animal!    Total
House-    House-    Production   House-    House-hold  Production
holds      hold                  holds
D. Livestock
(1) Sheep              1,500        10      15,000      3,540       12         42,480
(2) Goat               4,000        10      40,000      5,700       12         68,400
(3) Cattle             3,000        10       30,000     3,300       10         33,000
(4) Broiler            2,100      2,500    5,250,000    2,400     2,438      5,850,000
(5) Pig                 300         60       18,000     3,400       36         122,400
(6) Pig Breeding Farm     2      2,000        4,000        2      2,000         4,000
(7) Chicken Breeding                                  1          40,000 parent chicken,
Farm                                                          4 million checks
/a Yields at various stages of fruit trees which are not in full production.



24
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as Defined      Status             Impact of Study
at Appraisal/Redefined
1. Approaches for Increasing   Increase farmers'      Completed    Applied to farmers' practice and
Farmers' Income.           income                 Awarded      provided policy accordance.
2nd Place
2. Improvement of Fertility of        As title        Completed    Adopted the result in 0.6 million ha,
Sandy Soil and Increase Crop                                   increased 37,270 tons of wheat, and
Yield.                                                          22,626 tons of peanuts.
3. Technique for Utilization of       As title        Completed    Adopted the result in 0.66 million
Fertilizer for Wheat and                                        ha, grain yield increased by
Maize Rotation.                                                 560kg/ha. Fertilizer utilization
efficiency increased by 10%.
4. Identifying Variety and            As title        Completed    Adopted new varieties in 20,950 ha,
Cultivated Technique of                                         increased production of 82,950 tons.
Water Melon.
5. Breeding and Adoption of           As title        Completed    Adopted new variety in 0.133
New Variety of Hybrid Maize                                     million ha. Increased production of
and Cultivated Technique for                                    112,000 tons.
Plating Seed.
6. Identification and Adoption of     As title        Completed    Adopted new varieties to 7,200 ha,
New Varieties of Peanuts and                                    increased yield by 10-15%.
Soybean.
7. Disease and Pest Prevention        As title        Completed    Adopted and demonstrated in 3,500
for Wheat, Cotton, and Rice.                       1't Place    ha, reduced cotton production cost.
8. Study on Pig and Chicken           As title        Completed    Adopted the technique to farm
Feed Formulation and                                            households.
Feeding Technique.
9. Raising Technique of Cross-        As title        Completed   Introduced to farm household
breed Beef Cattle and                             2nd Place     practice.
Demonstration.
10. Experiment of Feeding Cattle      As title        Completed    Applied at farm households.
with Ammoniated Straw at
Household Level.
11. Development Livestock             As title        Completed    Provided information to policy
Resources and Market                              3rd Place     makers.
Projection for Livestock
Products.
12. Raising Technique                 As title        Completed   Introduced to farm households.
Improvement and
Demonstration for Goat and
Sheep.



25
Study                Purpose as Defmed       Status            Impact of Study
at Appraisal/Redefined
13. High-nutritional Apple            As title        Completed    Applied in production practice.
Characteristics and Cultivated                    2nd Place
Technique Demonstration and
Adoption.
14. High-yield Cultivated             As title        Completed    Applied in production practice.
Technique for Multi-fruit
Production.
15. Study and Application of          As title        Completed    Applied in fish pond production,
Comprehensive High-yield                          ISt Place    increased yield and prevent disease.
Technique for Fish Pond.
16. Qucun Recharge/Storage            As title        Completed    Applied in production practice.
Irrigation Experiment.                            3rd Place
17. Water-saving Irrigation           As title        Completed    Applied in production practice.
Technique.                                        Progress
Award
18. Program of Operation and          As title        Completed   Implemented in the YRDS.
Maintenance of Irrigation                         Progress
System.                                           Award
19. Water Resource Management         As title        Completed    Provide information for policy
Plan.                                             Progress      makers.
Award
20. Pilot Experiment for Water        As title        Completed    Applied in YRDS areas.
Resource Management in
Qucun YRDS.
21. Equilibrium of Water              As title        Completed    Provided information to policy
Demand and Supply of                                            makers.
Yellow River Comprehensive
Development.
22. Comprehensive Research for        As title        Completed    Being disseminated.
Agricultural Technique.                           2nd Place



26
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Item                         Appraisal Estimate       Mid-term Review Adjustment        Actual/Latest Estimate
Local     Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign     Total
costs     costs               costs    costs                costs    costs
A. Irrigation & Drainage  55.82     32.20      88.02    48.15    29.77      77.92      58.83    23.54      82.37
B. Agriculture & Forestry  8.09      11.38     19.47     8.11    15.80      23.87       7.39    12.57       19.96
C. Livestock Development  11.98      8.11      20.09    17.64    18.46      35.91      16.06    16.59      32.65
D. Aquaculture Development  5.77      3.90      9.67     8.91      8.78     17.69      10.93     7.15       18.08
E. Agroindustry           14.34     20.13      34.47    27.31    43.94      71.25      35.86    55.72      91.58
F. Project management      0.64      0.95       1.59     0.45      1.19      1.64                0.98       0.98
Base Costs                96.64     76.67    173.31    110.57   117.94    228.51      129.07   116.55     245.62
Physical Contingencies     5.53      6.14      11.67
Price Contingencies        2.69      8.36      11.05
Total                    104.86     91.17     196.03    110.57   117.94    228.51     129.07   116.55     245.62
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Source         Local costs  Foreign costs   Total     Local costs  Foreign costs   Total
IDA/a                     -          117.9          117.9         -          116.5          116.5
Provincial              31.5           -             31.5       22.4           -             22.4
Government
Prefecture               7.8           -              7.8         9.3          -              9.3
Government
County                  16.2           -             16.2         8.2          -              8.2
Government
Commercial Banks         9.1           -              9.1        19.1          -             19.1
Beneficiaries           46.0           -             46.0       70.0           -             70
Total                  110.6         117.9          228.5      129.1         116.5          245.6
/a It was $ 110 million at appraisal and becamne $117.9 at mid-term review due to depreciation of SDR to US$.



27
TABLE 9: ECoNOmiC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Economic Rate of Return    Net Present Value @12% at ICR
At ICR       At SAR         At ICR         At SAR
(%/6)        (%)          (Y'000)         (Y'000)
1. Crops
- Zhaokou YRDS Area            45.1          34.6         502,720        474,735
- Qucun YRDS Area              36.6          36.7          95,500        190,362
- Xiangfuzhu YRDS Area         43.2          37.0          90,800        143,979
- Shitouzhuang YRDS Area       45.1          42.4         152,090        116,158
- Ground Water Area            57.8          49.7         197,660        425,733
- Yuxiayong Drainage Area      30.8          26.9         234,300         41,056
- Dongshahe Area               35.2          29.8         109,350         66,518
Total Crop Component           50           38.4        1,539,764       1,467,279
2. Fruit and Tree Crops          47.6          36.7         465,894        266,249
3. Livestock Component
- Beef cattle                  35.0          27.8          34,267         29,013
- Sheep                        31.8         29.3            3,692         5,523
- Broiler                      57.2          49.3          19,122         17,771
- Goat                         35.5          34.0          19,948         8,167
- Pig farm                     32.6          39.0          21,003         42,095
- Pig Households               29.8          39.9          28,113         2,545
Total Livestock Component     35.2          28.6         239,040         91,761
4. Aquaculture
- Xinxiang Municipality        39.6          26.0          17,660         13,568
- Jiaozuo Municipality         22.0          20.6           3,028         7,833
- Shangqiu Municipality        49.8          30.8          13,240         11,513
- Puyang Municipality          37.0          27.4           4,208         5,670
- Jiyuan City                  22.7                         5,111
- Kaifeng Municipality         43.6                         4,442
Total Aquaculture             34.7          25.6          41,313         38,764
5.Agro-industry                  25.6          31.2         401,053        246,858
Total Project                    40.0          35.8        2,348,781       2,063,473



28
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section              Covenant  Present   Original          Revised       Description of Covenant
type        status      fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
Credit       Article 11 2.02(b)     01          C                                   Government to open and maintain
special account.
Project      Article II 2.02(b)     01          C                                   Establish and maintain four revolving
funds at ABC.
Schedule 2-4(a)       06           C                                   Agro-chemicals to be approved by
IDA.
Schedule 24(b)        06           C                                   All project activities comply with
environmental standards acceptable by
IDA.
Schedule 2-4(c)       06           C                                   Henan EPB's approval of the final
designs of effluent treatment from
agro-industries.
Schedule 24(d)        06           C                                   Agro-industries maintain a system in
accordance with the designs approved
by HEPB.
Schedule 2-5(a)       09           C                                   Submit semi-annual progress reports
by January 31 and July 31 of each
year.
Schedule 2-5(b)       09           C       10/31/1993   07/20/1994   Conduct a mid-term review no later
than October 31, 1993
Schedule 2-5(c)       09           C       12/31/1993   09/30/1994    Submit progress of the mid-term
review no later than December 31,
1993.
Schedule 2-6(a)       13           C                                   Resale prices of imported fertilizer
and pesticides are determined using
methodology accepted to IDA.
Schedule 2-6(b)       13           C                                   The exercise in 6(a) to be done
annually.
Schedule 2-7(a)       10           C       12/31/1992   06/30/1993    Submit water resources management
plan for review by December 31,
1992.
Schedule 2-7(b)       10           C       12/31/1992                  Submit operation and maintenance
plan by December 31, 1992.
Schedule 2-7(d)       10           C       11/01/1996   06/01/1997    Provide revised water charges rate to
cover all operating and maintenance
costs by Nov. 1, 1996.
Schedule 2-8(a)       10           C                                   Provide draft operational guidelines of
agro-industries for review.
Schedule 2-9(a)       05           C                                   All overseas training and study tours
to be approved by IDA.
Schedule 2-10(a)      03           C                                   Submit a statement of proposed
budgetary allocation by January 31
and if approved budget by April 30.
Covenant Class:                                                                                  Status:
I = Accounts/audits                               8 = Indigenous people                          C = complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation       9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                             10 = Project implementation not covered by
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds             categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                           11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  other resources allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                       12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/
7 = Involuntary resettement                           institutional action
13 = Other



29
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project is in compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                Actual
Stage of project cycle               Weeks      $           Weeks    $
Preparation to appraisal                n.a.        n.a.       184.2      550.7*
Appraisal                               n.a.        n.a.        49.6      149.4
Negotiations through Board approval     n.a.        n.a.         9.1       28.5
Supervision                             n.a.        n.a.       152.3     472.9
Completion                               16        40.2         19.8       64.7
Total                                                          415.0    1,266.2
* This amount includes FAO estimated average of $3,050/week as actual figures were not available for FY89 and FY90.



30
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MIssioNs
Performance rating
Number            Specialized                         Develop-
Stage of      Month/         of       Days in  Staff skills           Implement-  ment         Type of
Project cycle   Year         Person   Field   represented             ation Status  Objectives   Problems
Identification   May 1989    3        6        Irrigation Engineer
Agronomist
Agronomist
Preparation   Nov. 1989      10       25       Agric. Economist
Economist
Irrigation Engineer
Agronomist
Economist/Project
Analyst
Livestock & Aquaculture
Spec.
Meat Processing Spec.
Agro-processing Spec.
National Water
Resources Consultant
Operations
Agriculture Spec.
Pre-appraisal   May 1990     7        30       Agric. Economist
Irrigation Engineer
Agronomist
Livestock Specialist
Agro-Industries Spec.
Environmental Engineer
Aquaculture Specialist
Appraisal     Oct. 1990      8        22       Irrigation Engineer
Agronomist
Livestock Specialist
Agro-Industries Spec.
Aquaculture Spec.
Agro-Environmental
Protectionist
Biologist, Env.
Consultant
Agric. Economist
Division Chief
Supervision    July 1991     5        6        Agric. Economist       S            S
Irrigation Engineer
Agro-Industries Spec.
Aquaculture Specialist
Meat Processing Spec.
May 1992      3         11      Livestock Specialist    S           S           Irrigation and
Sr. Agric. Economist                            drainage component -
Irrigation Engineer                             water not reaching
farmers' fields
October 1992   2       7        Agro-Industries Spec.   S           S           Slow progress under
Aquaculture Specialist                          aquaculture
_  _                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~component_ .
July 1993     6        8        Aquaculture Specialist,    S        S           Delay in the
Livestock Specialist                           implementation of
Agro-Industries Spec.                           agro-industries
Procurement Analyst                             component
Sr. Agric. Economist
Irrigation Engineer



31
Performance ratiiig
Number            Specialized                           Develop-
Stage of      Month/         of       Days in  Staff skills             Implement-  Ment         Type of
Project cycle  year          person   Field    represented              ation status   Objectives   problems
July 1994     5         10       Agro-qndustries Spec.    S            S           Delay in procurement
Aquaculture Specialist                           of materials and
Sr. Agric. Economist                             equipment under
Livestock Specialist                             agro-processing
IrTigation Engineer                              component
June 1995     5         10       Aquaculture Specialist    S           HS          Slow disbursement on
Livestock Specialist                             agro-processing and
Agro-Industries Spec.                             irrigation and
Irrigation Engineer                              drainage components
Water Resources Spec.
June 1996     5         12       Aquaculture Specialist    S           S           Lack of counterpart
Livestock Specialist                             funds on additional
Agro-Industries Spec.                            components.
Water Resources Spec.
Irrigation Engineering
May 1997      7         12        Irrigation Engineer     S            S           Delay in the
Agricultural Economist                           construction and
Agro-Industries Spec.                            equipment installation
Aquaculture Specialist                            of two agro-
Agricultural Economist                           processing plants.
Livestock Specialist
Procurement Assistant
March 1998    3         7         Sr. Agric. Economist    HS           HS          None
Agro-Industries Spec.
Agricultural Economist
ICR           April 1999    4         12       Ag. Economist            S            S
Irrigation Engineer
Agronomist
Agro-Industries Spec.



32
ANNEX A
CHINA
HENAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ICR Mission (April 19-30, 1999)
Aide-Memoire
A. Introduction
1.  A joint World Bank (IDA) and FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program (FAO/CP)
mission consisting of Mme. Zhong Tong (agricultural economist, IDA, mission leader),
Messrs. Michael Sandoz (irrigation specialist, FAO/CP), Alvaro Bueno (agriculturist,
FAOICP), and David Gue (agro-industry specialist, consultant) visited Henan province,
China                                                               during
April 19-30 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Henan
Agricultural Development Project. The mission visited Kaifeng, Puyang, Wuzhi and
Jiyuan with selected sites covering irrigation, agriculture, forestry, livestock, aquaculture,
and agro-industry. The field visits provided the mission with an opportunity to observe
the effects of project implementation and operation. The mission also held intensive
discussions with the PPMO, provincial BoF, and related technical bureaus. The project
management offices prepared an overall ICR report and individual ICRs for each
component, with supporting data. These were very helpful for the mission to prepare the
Bank's ICR. The wrap-up meeting was held in Zhengzhou on April 30, 1999.
2.  The draft of Aide Memoire summarizing findings, primary conclusions, and
recommendations from the ICR mission has been given to the PPMO after wrap-up
meeting. The finalized Aide Memoire will be sent from IDA headquarters and will be
attached to the ICR.
3.   The mission would like to express its sincere thanks to PMO's at all levels,
provincial DoF, and all technical bureaus and governments of Kaifeng, Puyang, Wuzhi
and Jiyuan for their support, cooperation, and hospitality.
B. Background
4.  Project Origin. The Government of China requested IDA to finance an integrated
agricultural development project in the Province of Henan. The Province formed the
Project Leading Group (PLG) and project management offices at all levels from
provincial to prefecture and county to take responsibility for project preparation and
implementation.   The project was identified in May 1989 and prepared in
November/December 1989 by the Henan Provincial Government with assistance from
FAO/CP. A pre-appraisal mission visited the project area in May/June 1990, and
appraisal took place in October/November 1990.
5.  Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the project were to assist the
government of Henan in accelerating and diversifying agricultural development in order
to alleviate poverty, raise farmer incomes and increase rural employment. The project
specifically was to: (a) provide additional irrigation water by completing construction of



33
four Yellow River Division Schemes (YRDS) and sinking wells; (b) alleviate soil salinity
and water-logging problems by investing in drainage and flood protection schemes; (c)
increase the productivity of existing low-yield farms by crop intensification and
diversification; (d) develop wastelands for crops, alfalfa and orchards; (e) expand
livestock production through effective use of crop residues; (f) develop low-lying areas
for fish production; (g) invest in agro-processing and agro-industry; (h) improve the
province's ability to manage water resources effectively; and (i) strengthen research,
extension and environmental protection programs.
6.   Covenants were limited and well-focused on: (a) establishment of a special
account at the provincial DoF and four revolving funds (for ground water development,
farm inputs, orchard development, and livestock development) at county BoF; (b) water
resource management plan for new and rehabilitated wells; (c) operational guidelines for
the agro-processing and agro-industrial enterprises; (d) environmental aspects (effluent
control for agro-industries and approval of agro-chemicals by environmental authority);
and (e) reporting on water charges and their revision for surface irrigation schemes,
annual project progress, and resale prices for imported fertilizer and pesticides.
7.   Project Organization. The government of Henan was responsible for overall
project implementation. Senior officials from concerned provincial agencies served in
the Provincial Project Leading Group (PPLG) which set policy for the project and guided
the Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO), the project executing body in policy
matters. Similar PLGs and PMOs were established at municipal/prefecture and county
levels to carry out project policies and activities respectively at these levels. Also five
Engineering Headquarters (EHs) were established for each of the four YRDS and the
Dongshahe River Regulation Scheme to direct the technical aspects of the irrigation earth
works and civil works, including construction supervision and quality control. Scientific
and Technical Committees (STCs) were established to make recommendations on
technical aspects to PLGs and PMOs.
8.   Project Implementation. The project became effective on August 23, 1991 but
implementation of irrigation and drainage, aquaculture, and livestock components began
after appraisal using retroactive-financed funds totaling US$4.45 mission. A mid-term
review in 1994 made some adjustments in component composition and size in response
to the market changes and other factors. The major factors were: (i) the exchange rate
changed such that SDR depreciated relative to USD and USD appreciated with respect to
RMB; (ii) reduction of ICB and NCB costs for equipment, materials and civil works, and
cancellation of well pumps, diesel generators, and pesticides. These made more project
funds available and entailed a quite substantial adjustment: besides the cancellation of the
procurement mentioned above and elimination of the sub-component of alfalfa
production households, the number of livestock specialized households for raising pigs,
chicken, goat, and sheep was increased and five agro-processing factories, four fish feed
mills, four chicken breeding farms, and two pig breeding farms were added to the project.
Later on, with the Bank's approval, the project made further adjustment by canceling four
chicken slaughtering/processing operations, three chicken breeding farms, four fish feed
mills (constructed using own funds) and two agro-processing factories (Mengxian DDGS
and Yongcheng reeling mill). These timely adjustments enable the project to avoid
unnecessary delay and costs. The PMOs established implementation regulations for



34
management and inspection. The concerned technical bureaus closely collaborated with
PMOs and provided technical support during the implementation. The project also
experienced some difficulties from changes outside its control, for example, in the
government policy on import duties (removed the exemption for Bank-financed projects),
domestic approval procedure for procurement documents, and working capital
availability. However, the PMOs tried with considerable effort to overcome these
problems to get the project going. IDA also provided technical advice and assistance.
The project was successfully implemented and completed.
C. Mission Findings
9.  Irrigation and Drainage. Irrigation and drainage infrastructure provided under
the project has been generally suitable and effective in terms of concept and adequate in
terms of design and construction quality. Also commendable have been the joint efforts
of the responsible local bureaus and beneficiary farmers in ensuring the satisfactory
execution of vital basic maintenance activities on the completed works.
10. Zhaokou West YRDS. System concepts and designs appear to have been
adequate and appropriate to the local conditions. Earthworks do not appear to be very
compacted in some embankment fill areas but are otherwise of good quality; in any case
canal sections are primarily in cut, requiring that irrigation be effected by pumping from
the canals. The quality of structures is considered acceptable but somewhat rough. Basic
routine maintenance within earth channel sections (weeding, desilting and some
restoration of slopes) and at structures (painting and lubricating) generally seems to be
carried out in a good and timely manner, which is commendable. On the other hand, it is
not apparent that such attention is given to some heavier maintenance/repair needs
(structure and gate system repairs, and road grading). The contrast in performance
between relatively easy routine maintenance and somewhat more demanding non-routine
maintenance and repairs is noticeable here and elsewhere, and should be addressed. To a
large but not exclusive extent this reflects the division of responsibilities for maintenance
between farmers and local WCB operation and maintenance (O&M) offices; budget
limitations will also be a factor, since water charges may not cover much more than WCB
staff salaries and operational expenses. There is farmer satisfaction with the improved
irrigation facilities.
11. Qucun YRDS. A total of three desilting basins along the upper reaches of the
main canal was prepared under the project in 1993, 1996 and 1998 respectively. As with
previous desilting basins, the project basins once filled with silt will be restored to
agricultural production, and the process will continue at new sites. The linings viewed
were generally sound and intact, but that was not the case in at least one location. Since a
small failure can lead rapidly to a major one, proper repairs to embankments and linings
should be undertaken at such locations without delay. Unlined earth channel sections are
well maintained. The same cannot be said about a main drain discharge control structure
built under the project in 1993, where the gates are not in a good state of repair. At the
lateral, sublateral and on-farm levels of the system, two distinct experimental water-
saving systems were built in 1997 under the project, as trial alternatives to the traditional
unstructured and individualistic mobile-pump approach to farm-level irrigation. It is
suggested that some alternative low-cost physical and organizational measures, to



35
improve directly the efficiency of the currently dominant farm-level irrigation methods,
could be explored. Positive project impacts were observed at the site of a project that
excavated drains in 1995 for relief of waterlogging.
12. Qucun Pilot Recharge/Storage and Irrigation Scheme. Indications are that the
pilot scheme has achieved success; results reportedly show that (i) ground water pumping
in the project area has markedly reduced, (ii) water table depths below ground level in the
project area have stabilized at 15-20 m, (iii) the water table in areas downstream from the
project area has risen by 3 m, and (iv) the water table in other adjacent areas, which are
unaffected by the project, is dropping by 0.7 m per year. The lateral/sublateral level
system, which is similar in many respects to the first Qucun YRDS experimental system
referred to above, seems well conceived.
13. Wuzhi GWDS. The project interventions occurred in 1992-1993. They were
planned to be financed by loans to farmers via a project revolving fund arrangement, but
as noted above this was not achieved; farmer contributions to investment costs were
normally limited to provision of labor. The pump and/or electrical connections and
controls at most locations are removed by the wellmaster for safekeeping when not in
use, leaving exposed wiring; this and other electrical system features may constitute
safety hazards and should be reviewed. It was noticed that basic care and maintenance
activities within the capacity of the wellmaster are generally performed as needed, but
that more major tasks (such as repair of a broken wellhead plinth) are not. This mirrors
the pattern of repair and maintenance deficiencies noted above. Problems noted with
some of these systems include (i) some lack of acceptance by farmers of the communal
system when it cannot accommodate irrigation needs outside of the normal pattern, and
(ii) little attention given to detail, quality, and appropriate assembly and use, in the case
of a locally initiated, installed and operated sprinkler system. For most areas it is
considered that the original basic well irrigation arrangement, preferably with buried
electricity cables and not necessarily including pump houses, together with earth channel
distribution systems, is suitably simple, practical and appropriate for the local conditions.
Villagers met with at two of the locations indicated that there was much satisfaction with
the impact of the original project installations.
14. Agriculture component includes seed centers, greenhouses, and inputs. Seed
centers supported by the project are fulfilling their responsibility to provide farners with
improved seeds of the most important crops.  The high quality of the seed is,
undoubtedly, one of the major factors responsible for the steady increase in yield.
15. There is measurable evidence that the improved design of tunnel greenhouses is
contributing to diversification of production, increased crop output and total household
income. But, it is important that an adequate credit scheme, using revolving funds
established under the project, be in place for this technology to reach a larger number of
farmers.
16. The emphasis given to fariner's training will contribute significantly for
improvement of technical capability and social conditions in rural communities supported
by the Project.



36
17. Forestry/Horticulture. The plant disposition of the improved windbreak is better
than traditional one-row planting of trees around canals and roadways and can serve as
demonstration site for training of other farmers. The windbreak will have a long lasting
beneficial effect on improvement of soil conditions and fertility, fundamental factors for
sustainablility of farming in small landholding. Orchards visited are well managed and
can be used as demonstration sites for training and extension purposes. The package of
assistance provided by the project has a high degree of replicability in other similar agro-
ecological and market conditions.
18. Livestock. Raising cattle, goats, and sheep is a good opportunity to use more
rationally crop residues available in the farm, especially leaves of peanut and sweet
potato that have good nutritional value. The manure produced is an excellent organic
fertilizer, especially for vegetable production. The net profit generated will contribute
significantly to raise farm household income.
19. The pig operation in Jiyuan represents an well-organized integrated system of
production. It is a profitable business and helps farmers to diversify production, make
better use of resources, add value to farm products and increase household income. The
integrated scheme of broiler production observed in Wuzhi is very successful. This
system should be tested also for other livestock species, especially lean pig production.
20. Aquaculture. Fish ponds visited by the mission are well constructed and have
good productivity, but the investment necessary to built similar ponds is quite high and
most poor families can not afford it without some form of assistance. Operating costs are
relatively high, especially feed, therefore, studies on alternative feeding procedures are
warranted.
21.  Agro-processing. Implementation of the eleven processing plants has been excellent
and all processing plants have been constructed to a high standard and are in profitable
commercial operation. These units are a good example of Bank investments in small and
medium size industries, providing close linkages to the production activities of the project.
The seed processing and poultry processing plants have been less successful in
implementation and in commercial operation. About 70% of the seed centers are now in
commercial operation after a number of quality problems with equipment, and although the
poultry processing plants have been well constructed with good equipment, commercial
operation is a major problem. These units are looldng for commercial partners to take over
the operations.
22. Cold Stores for Meat, Fruit and Vegetables. The three plants are well managed and
are in profitable commercial production. These units are an excellent example of small scale
enterprises: All three plants are making a substantial profit storing and selling meat, fruit and
vegetables, and are performing better than expected. All three plants have expanded (at their
own cost) into small-scale slaughterhouses, and one plant has applied for registration as the
official city slaughterhouse. The units are making an average 22% FIRR after tax, with
average post tax 1988 income of Y1.08 million at each plant. These are excellent results if
they can be maintained.



37
23. Jiyuan IQF Vegetable Factory. This plant was completed in 1996, and is a model
of excellent design and construction. The plant was equipped through ICB procurement with
two vegetable preparation lines and two Instant Quick Freeze (IQF) fluidized bed vegetable
freezing units. The company has expanded with a vegetable production base of 5,000 mu
and vegetable fazmers under contract, and provides seeds, fertilizers and advisory inputs,
and buys the produce at contracted prices. The company has installed one additional
processing line and a vegetable preparation area (at their own cost). The commercial
operation of this company is very well managed -- a good example for other agro-industries
to emulate. The FIRR is 14% after tax and the company made YO.762 million post-tax
profit in 1998.
24. Wenxian 12,000 t/y Starch Mill. The corn starch plant has been in commercial
operation since October 1994 and in 1997 produced 9,600t of starch powder and 5,000t
glucose. The plant has won several awards for product quality, energy efficiency, good
process design, and commercial management. Production costs are among the lowest unit
costs in China, and the unit has full effluent treatment facilities to meet NEPB standards.
Both implementation and commercial operation are highly satisfactory, but there are
underlying financial problems: (a) the plant received virtually no counterpart funding from
local authorities, and has raised funds through its own resources at high interest rates. The
factory is, in effect, working at very high production levels only to cover the debts; and (b)
to increase output the plant needs an additional working capital of Y 6.5 million, but there is
a shortage of working capital (and the necessary collateral for more loans) that constrains
the production.
25. Changyuan 15,000t/y Paper Mill. This mill has been in operation since October
1996, and produced 13,500 tons of writing paper in 1998, which reached 90% of its
capacity. It has upgraded the process to double sided coated writing paper. Shortages in
working capital constrain the commercial operation, which passed the break-even point in
1997, and made Y14 million post tax profits in 1998. The civil works are well constructed,
the equipment is of good quality, and the mill is well managed. The market for paper is good
but competitive at present, and sales prices have dropped substantially in the past three
years. The company has a strong order book. The effluent treatment plant is comprehensive
and functioning well. The power station smoke precipitator is so effective that there is no
visible discharge from the smoke stack. The plant has been awarded PEPB approval and met
all design effluent and emission targets.
26. Wuzhi Dogbane 25,000 tfy Paper Mill (visited). This plant was commissioned in
1998 and is one of the first paper mills in China to use the Alkali Recovery System (ARS)
and continuous pulp digesters, and is specifically designed to be environmentally friendly by
producing very litfle effluent. The civil works are of a very high standard, the equipment is
of good quality, and the management is well experienced. The plant started commercial
operation in February 1999, and is operating under contract to a Beijing printing company.
Discussions on a joint venture operation with this company are in progress. The plant has
the potential to generate 15% FIRR after tax with Y57 million per year post tax profits.



38
27. Kaifeng Particle Board Mill. This plant is the largest single investment in phase two
of the project, and has been completed and put into commercial operation during 1998. The
civil works and equipment are of a high standard and the processing lines were procured by
ICB from Bison/Kvaemer of Germany. The overall quality of the plant is excellent, and the
quality of management is very good. The plant has commenced commercial operation and
has contracts with five major clients that purchase the full production output. Product
quality is to international standards, and clients currently pay in advance for their orders,
obviating the need for most working capital. Production from start-up in July 1998 to end of
March 1999 was 22,000 m3 and peak production achieved was 136 m3/day against the
designed rated capacity of 110 m3/day.
28. Puyang Giberellin Mill. This plant was designed to produce crystallized and liquid
plant growth hormones from corn starch and glucose, but can produce any bio products that
require sterilization, fermentation, concentration and drying processes. The quality of
construction and equipment was good. The products achieved the designed National
Standard GB15955-1995. The sponsors have since formed a shareholding company in
which shares are held by the Giberellin Plant (10%), Beijing Hong Tian Pharmaceutical
Co. (80%) and Beijing Bio-Pharma Research Institute (10%). The company has the
necessary permits for bio-products production and has invested an additional Y8 million
in additional processing and packing equipment. The plant is currently in commercial
production of veterinary antibiotic feed additives for poultry.
29. Puyang 100t/y silk reeling mill. The civil construction work is good. The
equipment was commissioned in 1997 and achieved 22% capacity in the first nine
months of production, and in 1998 increased output to 80% of capacity. Silk grades have
increased from 3A in 1997 to 80% 4A in 1998, and the market is currently buoyant for
the higher quality 4A silk. The company owns 1500 mu mulberry and cocoon production
and buys the remainder of raw materials from contracted farmers, where the company
provides all inputs to the farmers including eggs, frames, and technical support. The
cocoon farmers in the project area have converted to modem sericulture techniques that
produce significantly better cocoons with better results in the semi-automatic reelers.
The plant is generating a post tax profit in 1998 of Y2.7 million and should achieve an
FIRR of 16% at full capacity.
30. Wuzhi Sheepskin Plant. The tannery started commercial operation in April 1997
and includes an effective effluent treatment facility. Two production lines are installed,
one tanning line, and one machine shop for sheepskin and leather products. The plant
received no funds or working capital from local authorities and has a debt to equity ratio
of 90%. Production in the tannery reached 40% capacity in 1997 and increased to 50% in
1998. The product is good quality and the demand is strong. The plant broke-even in
1998, with a small post tax profit.
31. Poultry Slaughterhouses. Three plants at Kaifeng, Yanjin and Yucheng were
completed with facilities to process 1000 birds/hour, and each with lOOt cold stores. The
facilities and ICB equipment were of good quality, and functioned well but the plants have
been very little used largely due to lack of managerial and commercial experience. Efforts



39
are being made to find commercial partners to operate the plants, and these efforts will
continue.
32. Seed Processing. After withdrawal and cancellation of nine seed processing lines,
eleven plants are in commercial operation, and five have been installed and tested but
have not commenced commercial production. The eleven seed companies operated their
plants commercially in 1998 and processed a combined 50,836 tons of seeds. NCB
equipment quality problems combined with poor management and slow implementation
by the seed companies have been a continual source of concern throughout the project
implementation. The main components of the plants were made functional although
requiring high maintenance levels. Several seed companies modified the equipment, at
their own cost, and achieved satisfactory processing from the plant.
33. Environmental Aspects. The mission was pleased to learn the project has positive
environmental impact on the project and surrounding areas. The irrigation and drainage
schemes reduced frequency of occurrence of drought, flood and sandstorm and improved
soil fertility. The well irrigation combined with more efficient utilization of surface
water increased underground water level and prevented soil salinity. Windbreak trees
blocked or reduced strong winds from the north, while increasing vegetation coverage
area.
34.  Manure from livestock production is either used for organic fertilizer or for fish
feed in the fish pond. Use of ammoniated straw for feed (ruminate animals) reduced air
pollution due to straw burning. All agro-processing factories have installed effluent
treatment facilities, meet the environmental protection standard, and have been approved
by the environmental authorities.
35. Sustainability. The mission has considered that Henan Province has sufficient
capacity and resources to continue with the developments that have been commenced
under the project, but the mission has made the following recommendations for future
operation for the project sustainable development:
36.      Implementation of the project has provided excellent facilities for production,
processing and marketing of agricultural, livestock and aquaculture products, but
sustainability depends on future operation. Technical assistance should, therefore,
continue to be provided from the relevant technical bureaus. Training of personnel in
production techniques, enterprise management and product marketing should be
continued and organized on a regular basis. Key personnel of the PMO should continue
to be available for this important coordination role in the future of the project.
37.  Management.  The mission's site visits indicated significant differences in
management ability among various production bases and commercial enterprises, ranging
from excellent management at most of the locations to fairly poor results at a few. Good
management is essential to ensure successful commercial profitability. The experience of
the very successful business models such as Jiyuan Pig Breeding Farm, Wuzhi Chicken
Breeding Farm, and Jiyuan Lukang Fast-Frozen Vegetable Company, should be
introduced to all enterprises under the project.



40
38. Marketing. In response to market variation, the production structure and variety of
products needs to be continuously re-assessed and adjusted. Currently demand for fish
and meat (including chicken and pork) is declining, which has driven market prices
down. The PMO's and technical bureaus should provide market information to the
project areas and assist enterprises and farmers to react to market changes with
adjustment in their production and product ranges.
39. Linkages. The project was designed to establish an integrated system with close
linkages between production, processing and marketing in all project components. A
model of "company + farm households" was designed and developed for this project and
has been a powerful tool that has created mutual benefit for producers and commerce,
and has reduced risks for both companies and farmers. The mission recommends the
extension of this model in other areas.
40. Repayments. The project has already commenced repayment of the loans, and
these commitments are the obligation of the project participants. The mission observed
that the project has adequate capacity for loan repayment, and many of the farms and
enterprises are already operating above their break-even point and have substantial post-
tax profits. The PMO's and the finance bureaus, at all levels, need to make adequate loan
repayment plans with all project participants, to ensure that the Provincial BoF can meet
its commitments to MoF and IDA.
41.   The Project Future Operation Plans. The future long term success of all project
components will be dependent on good management and administration by the bureaus
and enterprises attached to the project. Their long term operating plans should include
enabling and facilitating policies, and are important to the sustainability of the project.
The operation plans need to make appropriate technical, financial, commercial and
institutional arrangements to ensure the continuing effectiveness of project operation.
The plan should include the timely provision of necessary inputs; adequate staffing
(including training) and management; production plans, management systems, and
marketing strategy.
42. Maintenance and Repairs for Irrigation and Drainage Schemes. Basic maintenance
of completed works is being undertaken satisfactorily but not in the case of heavier and
non-routine maintenance and repairs. To ensure long-term sustainability of infrastructure
performance, these tasks will require proper and timely attention. Every effort should be
made to secure the necessary funds and resources for this and to effect the corresponding
work. For the future developments, the application of advanced irrigation technology has
been noted in several small but significant areas. In many instances this can be a high-
cost venture that fails to succeed. Caution in the promotion of such developments on a
large scale is urged, but a continued focus on pilot projects is encouraged, as long as
these can be methodically monitored, analyzed and reported on over extended periods.
Also encouraged would be some research attention to low-cost physical and
organizational interventions aimed at improving already established and accepted
irrigation practices.



41
D. Lessons Learned
43. This agricultural development project was a comprehensive project involving multi-
sectors (horizontal) and various level of administration (vertical). Some key lessons to be
learnt from its implementation are summarized as follows:
*  Establishment of an integrated system that links production, processing and
marketing can reach optimum utilization of resources and achieve maximum benefit.
It is the direction of future development for the agricultural sector.
*  Contractual relationships establishing forward and backward linkages between
company and farm households, or company, production base and farm households,
can mutually benefit both and reduce market risk, thereby addressing the main
project objectives of increasing rural income and employment opportunities.
*  Provision of initial working capital for agro-processing is essential to help factories
start operation after installation and commissioning of equipment. Initial working
capital can be arranged either from the project or from commercial banks.
*  Management of revolving funds has to be improved. A monitoring system or
regulatory structure needs to be established. The project set up revolving fiunds for
well irrigation and livestock households. The utilization of these did not show the
great contribution they were supposed to make.
-  Establishment of comprehensive and detailed implementation procedures is an
assurance of a successful project.  The procedures should include staff
responsibilities, inspection requirements, and procedures for project planning,
procurement, civil work construction, finance, monitoring and evaluation (M&E),
and training.
E. Follow Up
44. The mission will prepare the ICR and will send it to the PPMO for review and
comments. The ICR prepared by the PMOs will be attached to the World Bank's ICR. The
Operation Evaluation Department (OED) of IDA would randomly select the completed
projects for post-review. Henan ADP would have a chance to be selected.



42
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
A. Actual Implementation Progress of the Project
1.  A total investment of 1,810 million yuan has actually been expended, 104.6% of
SAR target. Among it, IDA credit is 884 million yuan and 926 million yuan is
counterpart funds (147 million yuan from provincial level, 438 million yuan from
commercial banks and 341 million yuan from municipalities, counties, and other sources.
2.  From August 8, 1991 when the Project started to be implemented to December
1998 when it's totally finished, the project targets have been achieved or even surpassed.
And, all the subcomponents have been implemented well.
3.       Disbursement of IDA credit for SDR 81.2854 million has been completed,
99.86% of the appraised target.
B. Achievement of Objectives
(a)   Irrigation and Drainage. At appraisal, the planned irrigation area of the
eight subcomponents is 288,600 ha. From implementation to the end of
1997, 278,990 ha has brought about benefits, 96.7 % of the SAR.
(b)   Agriculture. 23175 tons of quality fertilizers and 135.8 tons of high-
efficiency chemicals were imported under the project, 100% of plans.
1,325 green tunnels were constructed, 117.7% of the plan.
Implementation of green tunnels has realized scaled and commercial
operation, playing a role of demonstration and extension. Farmers beyond
the project area have followed up and 83,200 households have constructed
tunnels for production of unreasonable vegetables. Twenty county seed
centres were to be supported under the project; 16 have been completed
and 4 have been canceled. Eleven are in commercial operation while five
plans have been installed and tested but have not commenced commercial
processing. On agricultural support, developed and improved 20 county
agro-extension centers and plant reservation stations and 80 township
extension centers. On scientific research and training, completed seven
studies and a technology seminar, 100% of SAR target. Trained 105,016
people (among them, the province trained 901 agro-technicians from
counties, the county trained 1,200 technicians from townships, the
township trained 31,200 farm technicians and 71,795 plant reservation,
94.5% of SAR target.
(c)   Livestock. The project has totally completed 236.60397 million yuan of
investment, 181.05% of SAR target. Among it, 123.12203 million yuan is
loan from the Bank, 113.50894 million yuan of counterpart funds from
domestic (13.943 million yuan from provincial level, 26.377 million from
counties, and 73.19494 million yuan from farmer labors). A total of 3,400
pig households have been developed, 100% of the plan; six commercial



43
and two breeding piggeries have been constructed, 100% of the plan. One
breeding chicken farm and 2,400 chicken households, 3000 cattle
households and 3000 sheep households have been developed, all figures
above are 100% of those in SAR. On hide goat, 5,700 households have
been developed, 101.7% of the plan. 384 alfalfa households have been
developed, 32% of the appraisal target.
(d)   Forestry and Fruit Trees. A total of 20,166.67 ha of trees have been
planted and rehabilitated, with an expenditure of 51.47008 million yuan,
123.7% and 147.6% of SAR targets, and 99.74% and 99.24% of the mid-
term review plans. The training under forestry and fruit component has
completed 1.266 million yuan of investment, 147.9% of the mid-term
review plan and 23,739 people have been trained, 145.6% of the mid-term
review plan. Among them, 10,625 trainees are women. Research of two
tasks, namely, Demonstration and Extension of High-Yield Cultivation
Techniques of Apple and Research, and Extension of High-Yield
Cultivation Techniques of Nuts have been developed successfully.
(e)   Aquaculture: After seven years of implementation, 1,492.83 has of fish
farm and 77.6 ha of hatchery farm were constructed up to the end of 1997.
The capacity of feed mill reaches up to 18,300 tons annually in one shift.
3,643 people have trained. Research tasks have been fully completed and
even exceeded the targets.
(f)   Agro-processing.  Eleven  agro-industrial  plants  have  completed
construction and in commercial operations. They have passed the break-
even point and have made profits.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
4.  The following factors have played sustainable, active, and important effects and
influences on successful implementation and achievement of objectives.
(a)   Governments of different levels paid great attention to the project.
(b)   Efficiency of Project Selection.
(c)   Efficiency of Project Organization and Operation.
5.    The following factors have caused the delay in the implementation progress of
some agro-industries.
(a)   Lack of working capital
(b)   Delay in ICB procurement which caused implementation delay in two
processing plants (Wuzhi dogbane mill and Kaifeng MDF board mill)
D. Assessment of Project Effects
6.    Successful implementation of the Project shows the regional efficiency of
agricultural development project by utilizing foreign fund in large scale, making its



44
economic, social and ecological benefits in a harmonious whole. The economic,
environmental and social effects are evaluated respectively as follows:
(a)   Assessment of Economic Effect. Having powerfully promoted the process
and development of agro-industrialization in the project area. The project
has arranged the distributions and organized the implementation according
to the target model of industrialization and up to now, the following
projects have been industrialized, forming the models of Company which
links to Farm Households, Company which links to Production Base plus
Farm  Households.  Having greatly promoted the adjustment and
improvement of agriculture and rural economic structure in the project
area. Cross-connection efficiency of industrialized projects in the project
area has increased employment opportunities and raised farmers' income
level. The 11 agro-processing industries, eight commercial piggeries, one
breeding chicken farm, three poultry slaughterhouses, and 16 seed centers
under the Project have supplied 6,780 fixed employment positions, 55.5%
for women. Additionally, 234,000 people have been involved in the
Project indirectly for seasonal works and 60% are women. Import of
advanced equipment speed up to technology progress and transference.
(b)   Assessment of Social Effect. Since its implementation has increased
agricultural productivity of the area along the Yellow River, improved the
economic development and ecological environment, the Project has an
important effect and profound historic significance.  In addition,
objectives of the Project are in conformity with government's strategies
for developing rural economy and regional development of the area along
the Yellow River, so the governments at the provincial, municipal, and
county levels have paid great attention to it.
(c)   Environmental Impact Assessment. Based on the principle and policy of
integrated project measure with biological measure and reformation with
utilization, and the individual control with comprehensive control for
agriculture, forestry, livestock and fishery, the optimized ecological
benefit have been achieved through the implementation of the project, and
it will benefit the environment quality and ecological environmental
quality in the long run. The main environmental impacts of the project are
as follows: (i) the completion of the construction of the Yellow River
Diversion Scheme and the drainage facilities had greatly reduced the
frequency of the natural disaster, such as drought, flood, and sand storm
and minimized the harmful effects of the drought, food, water-logging and
saline alkali; (ii) the plantation of windbreak and high yield forest and the
transform and development of orchard, controlled the sand storm,
increased the percentage of forest cover, achieved the goal of water and
soil conservation and the improvement of ecological environment for
cropland; (iii) two methods for the disposal of animal manure in the
livestock component. One to use it as fertilizer and second to use it as fish
feed. Additionally, straw ammonia technology has been extended under
the project, thus migrating the pollution cased by burning of straw and



45
stalks and improving agro-ecology quality; (iv) aquatic projects utilized
the waste land, low and water-logging land for excavation of fish pond,
thus increasing the land utilization rate and being helpful for improvement
of local ecological environment; (v) implementation of Xiangfuzhu YRDS
and well irrigation works have improved the underground water level and
caused no worse effect on the wetland; and (vi) environmental quality of
cultural and historic remains in the project area.
D. Sustainability of the Project
7.    Project sustainability refers to the consistent progress toward the set objectives
and the achievement of the expected goal of the project. The macroeconomics policy, the
inherent property of the project and other social, economic factors laid a solid foundation
for the sustainable development of the project.
8.    Sustainability of the project depends on policy, economy, production, ecology,
and social sustainability.
(a) Economic Sustainability: From the high financial rate of return (FRR) and
internal rate of return (ERR) of this project and the financial benefit of
each project components of economic contribution, we can see that the
farmers, enterprises, and local government in the project are have a stable
income increment from the project.
(b) Production Sustainability: The result of the project monitoring indicate that,
owing to the project water conservancy and irrigation facilities and the
construction removing the water-logging project drainage has successfully
removed the restriction factors that hinder the development of the local
farm production.
(c) Sustainability of Ecology: The implementation of this project especially lays
stress on the reasonable development and utilization of the natural
resources and the protection of natural resources, and lays stress on the
improvement of ecological environment, thus produce a long-term
beneficial influence on the implementation and further development of the
project, and makes the rural economy and agriculture production get on a
virtuous cycle.
(d) Sustainability of Society: The sustainability of this project has established
the foundation providing the reliable assurance for the social
sustainability.
E. Performance of the Bank
9.    From April 1989 to March 22, 1998, the World Bank has sent 13 project
investigation and supervision missions which composed of different officers and
specialists, totalling 73 people.



46
10.   The proper identification of the project by the WB. The World Bank and the
PPMO reach agreement on the determination of project area, the goal of the project and
the objectives of the components, the institution, management production models, the
linkage of the components, technology and financial issues based on the proposal of the
PPMO. The result of the implementation of the project indicated that - the goal of the
project is accord with the short-term then requirement of the economic environment and
the objectives of the Eight Five Year Plan of Henan Province then, but also accord with
the objective of the Ninth Five Year Plan and the projected objects for the year 2010 for
the development of agriculture. The selection of the project area is a decision with
foresight. The areas along the Yellow River in Henan Province possess the most
productive potentials, and the development of this area is critical to facilitate the
development of rural economy in Henan Province. Especially the integration model that
links the components together is very creative. It not only improves the efficiency of the
component, but also optimizes the overall efficiency of the whole project. Furthermore,
the integration model has been determined by the Chinese government as an important
way to improve the productivity of agriculture and to increase the farmers income.
11.   The full preparation of the project. The WB made further review of the project
objectives, models, techniques, economical, financial, operational, institutional and
environmental protection and social development issues based on the feasibility study
reports of the whole project and the project component presented by the PMO, make the
project plan, suitable and advanced technology and good economic benefit and the
guarantee of the repayment of the loan had been achieved. Thanks to the WB officials
and experts' hard working, responsibility, high efficiency and professional skills (the WB
sent preparation missions to Henan province twice).
F. IDA's Performance
12.   The successful appraisal of the project. In appraisal and pre-appraisal, the WB
mission inspected each aspects of the project systematically through on-the-spot
investigation. They made a thorough review of the project preparation works and
document and a thorough study on the key economical and technological issues,
exchanged views with the PPMO.
13.   The efficiency of project supervision by the Bank: During the period of the
project implementation, the WB sent project supervision missions, about 38 people to
Henan (accounting for 62% and 52% of the Bank's input in this project), which ensured
the effective supervision for the project.
G. Assessment of Achievements
14.   Successful implementation of the project has achieved or even exceeded the
expected targets, with great fruits, remarkable benefits and profound significance.
15.   Economic benefits. Each year, the project increments over 4,802 million yuan of
output value. Among which, 2,665 million yuan from irrigation and drainage (grain,
cotton, oil and vegetable) about 27 million yuan from agriculture, 316 million yuan from



47
forestry and fruits, 371 million yuan from livestock, 163 million yuan from aquaculture
and 960 million yuan from agro-industries.
16.   Social Benefit. The project has totally provided employment opportunities for
47,672 people. The specialized household models defined under the project are proved to
be in line with agricultural development status of the project area and to have good
demonstration efficiency for neighboring area. Implementation of irrigation and drainage
schemes has improved and strengthened the infrastructure status in the project area,
making a solid base for sustainable development of local agriculture. The personnel
training has a remarkable effect, providing a personnel guarantee for local economic
development in the future.
17.   Environmental Benefit.  Project implementation has brought about and will
sustain a long-term favourable effect on the project area and its neighbouring areas.
H. Future Management and Operation
18.   The life period of the project designed by the Bank is 20 years and its future
management and operation depend on guarantee of the following conditions:
(a) Successful implementation of the project has created great economic, social,
and ecological benefits and showed vigorous vitality potential.
(b) Henan Project Management Office (PMO) acts as the only one executing
agency of Henan for utilizing foreign fund for integrated agricultural
development, and its continuous existence will ensure future management
and operation of the project from organization stand.
(c) Continuously depending on monitoring and evaluation institution and
systems established by PMO, to continuously improve the indexes of
monitoring and evaluation and strictly monitor the project operation.
(d) Utilization plan, recycle and relending plan.  By using the established
revolving fund, to continue strengthening support for the relevant projects.
I. Main Experiences and Lessons
19.   Under the leadership of project leading group, having set up a set project
management system, with PMOs at provincial, municipal, and county levels as executing
agencies, financial bureaus as project management agencies, technical departments as
technical guide and service agencies and auditing units as the supervision agencies. The
practice shows that the arrangement of this organization is effective and successful.
20.   For integrated agricultural development project utilizing foreign fund, selection,
establishment and arrange of project should pay full attention to connection among the
components.  Taking industrialization as the linkage, to connect the production,
processing and marketing of agro-products into a whole, thus better arranging all



48
necessary productive factors, making the whole project achieve the most economic
benefits.
21.   Complete perfect rules and regulations must be set up and improved continuously,
doing the works under strict, scientific, standardized and systematic management.
22.   As for state-owned enterprises for processing agricultural or livestock products,
restructuring must be promoted according to reform directions. And for newly added
enterprises, attention must be paid to import of diversified investors to improve their
competitive ability and the econornic benefit.
23.   Attention must be paid to tendering and procurement. One year earlier before the
project becomes effective, some works such as personnel training and preparation of
bidding documents must be done, thus ensuring the project implemented smoothly and
speeding up the physical progress.
24.   When importing equipment, attention must be paid to the combinations between
complete equipment and unit equipment with key technologies, advanced technologies,
and applicable technologies, technical-intensive equipment and labor-intensive
equipment.
25.   Attention must be paid to training, especially for farmers, important effect of
technical assistance and task research, willing to invest in these aspects. This is also an
important factor for the project to achieve success.
26.   Main Lesson: At appraisal, we underestimated the difficulties of working capital
financing. In addition to local economic situation, some agro-industries can't achieve the
designed capacity after they were put into operation causing these enterprises can't
achieve the full benefits.



49
ANNEX C: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Appendix 1: Borrower's Comments on the ICR
Appendix 2: Water Resources Component ICR by FAO
Appendix 3: Agriculture, Aquaculture, Livestock, and Forestry Components ICR by
FAO
Appendix 4: Agro-industries Component
Appendix 5: Economic Analysis
Appendix 6: ICR by Henan Provincial Project Management Office



50
ANNEX D: PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT AREAS
Qucun recharge/storage irrigation scheme
W  i
-~~~~~~~~~-                                                 
Wheat field in Zhaokou West YRDS



51
Jiyuan Taihang Pig Breeding Farm
An Apple Orchard in Wuzhi County



52
Cocoon collected from drying centers ready for processing
3~~7
Reein  mahn_tPyn   ikMl



53
< -         '4   -I
Mr .a Y Mr sh ow Xiucai se l house b ore     withe i pjet  i
Mi Ga rom Xica'sojdhue pa frtiipthei roec
i  -~~~~~~~~~~~~-
t~~~~~~fo  prjc particpatio



