Page  1
December 23 1992
Mr. Liu Zhongli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
San1ihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic or China
Mr. Song Zhaosu
Vice Governor
Henan Provincial Government
10 Wei ER Road
Zhangzhou Henan Province 450003
People's Republic of China
Re:
Credit no. 2242-CHA
(Henan Agricultural Development Project)
Amendment of Development Credit Agreement.
Dear Minister Liu and Vice Governor Song Zhaosu:
1.
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Henan Agricultural Development 
Project) between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association), dated June 20, 1991 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) and to the Project Agreement (Henan Agricultural Development Project) 
between the Association and Henan Province (Henan), of the same date (the Project 
Agreement).  We also refer to the requests to disburse for local training and to the 
letter  from Vice Governor Song, dated November 26, 1992, requesting a delay in the 
submission of the water resource management plan.
2.
We are pleased to concur with these requests.  Consequently, the Association 
hereby agrees to amend the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement by revising  Category (5) to read: "Consultants' 
services, training and study torus."
3.
We are also pleased to agree to extend the deadline for Henan to provide a plan 
to manage water resources under paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement 
to June 30, 1993.
4.
Please confirm the agreement on behalf of the Borrower to the amendment in 
paragraph 2 above by signing and dating the enclosed confirmation copy of this letter 
and returning it to us for our files.  No confirmation by Henan is legally required.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Director
Country Department II
China and Mongolia
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:
Page  2
