Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2242 CHA
(Henan Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
HENAN PROVINCE
Dated June 20, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2242 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and HENAN PROVINCE (Henan).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eighty-one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 81,400,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Henan agree to undertake its obligations under the Project; and
WHEREAS Henan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Henan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, including passenger vehicles, required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Henan shall otherwise agree, Henan shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.01, Henan shall:
(a)
make available a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to Project 
Entities through BOFs for purposes of carrying out activities under Parts A.2, B.2, 
B.6, C.1, C.3 and E of the Project, in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association, including:
(i)
ensuring that interest rates charged for such funds made available 
under Parts A.2, 
B.2, B.6, C.1 and C.3 of the Project shall be no less 
than ABC's prevailing 
interest rates for similar loans for 
similar purposes, such rates to be reviewed 
from time to time 
with the Association in light of the cost of funds to ABC, as 
well as changes in ABC's interest rates; and
(ii)
ensuring that interest rates charged for such funds made available 
under Part E of 
the Project shall be no less than PCBC's prevailing 
interest rates for similar 
loans for similar purposes, such 
rates to be reviewed from time to time with the 
Association 
in light of the cost of funds to PCBC, as well as changes in PCBC's 
interest rates.
(b)
cause each BOF to establish and maintain, from counterpart funds and 
repayments of funds made available pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, four 
separate revolving funds on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
including charging interest at the rates set forth in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section, to be used for purposes of providing continued financing for: (i) ground 
water development; (ii) farm inputs; (iii) orchard development; and (iv) livestock 
development.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Henan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Henan shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
Page  3
(b)
Henan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Henan of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Henan shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
in respect of the Project.
(b)
Henan shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above for each 
fiscal year audited 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, Henan shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this  
section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.02. Henan shall ensure that suitable arrangements acceptable to the 
Association will be made with ABC and with PCBC or other appropriate financial 
institutions for purposes of facilitating the provision of funds to Project Entities.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Henan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Henan of
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such 
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For Henan Province:
Henan Province
10 Wei Er Road
Zhengzhou, Henan Province 450003
People's Republic of China
Telex:
46080 HCSPC CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Henan, may be 
taken or executed by the Vice
Governor of Henan or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, 
and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  5
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
HENAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding and Works
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, including machinery, equipment, 
vehicles, agrochemicals and agroindustrial equipment, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment or materials shall be grouped 
into bid packages to permit bulk purchases.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Civil works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured through force account.
3.
Groups of items, including small pumps, motors, irrigation equipment, electrical 
equipment, pipes, farm and livestock tools, seed and feed processing equipment, 
materials and farm supplies estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contract awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Groups of items, including furnishings, small equipment and office supplies, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in a accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  6
5.
Fruit tree, seedlings, tree saplings and breeding stock, may be procured by 
direct purchase from suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and each of the first contracts procured under Parts C.1 and C.3 
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out 
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Henan in carrying out the Project, Henan shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Association, Henan shall submit each contract 
for consultants' services to the Association for its review and approval prior to 
entering into such contract.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
In order to ensure effective coordination in carrying out the Project, Henan 
shall maintain or cause to be maintained:
(a)
a project leading group (PLG) at each of the provincial, prefecture or 
municipal, and county levels with composition and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association; and
(b)
a project management office at: (i) the provincial level; and (ii) each 
of the prefecture or municipal, and county levels, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association and staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
2.
Henan shall cause each PMO to assist Henan in complying with the financial 
reporting requirements of Article III of this Agreement.
3.
Henan shall furnish to the Association by December 31 of each year during 
implementation of the Project, an annual plan of civil works to be carried out under 
the Project during the next calendar
Page  7
year, including a proposed schedule and budgetary and financial arrangements required 
to carry out such program.
4.
Henan shall ensure that:
 
(a)
all agrochemicals financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been approved by the Association and shall be used in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association;
(b)
all Project activities comply with environmental standards and practices, 
including the environmental guidelines and regulations issued by the National 
Environmental Protection Agency and by the Henan Environmental Protection Bureau 
(HEPB), acceptable to the Association;
(c)
HEPB shall have approved the final designs for effluent treatment for 
each agroindustrial or agroprocessing facility financed under the Project prior to 
beginning construction of such facility; and
(d)
each agroindustrial and agroprocessing enterprise shall implement and 
maintain a system in accordance with the final designs approved by HEPB to treat and 
monitor all effluents from the agroindustrial or agroprocessing facility financed 
under the Project.
5.
Without limitation to the reporting provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, Henan shall:
(a)
furnish to the Association, on January 31 and July 31 of each year during 
implementation  of the Project, a report on the progress of carrying out the Project;
(b)
by not later than October 31, 1993, carry out a midterm review with the 
Association of the progress of carrying out the Project; and
(c)
by not later than December 31, 1993, furnish to the Association a report 
on the progress of carrying out any recommendations resulting from such midterm 
review.
6.
Henan shall: (a) cause the resale prices charged for imported fertilizers and 
pesticides financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be at least equal to the cost 
of importing such fertilizers and pesticides, including a margin for distribution 
costs, determined in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
review the resale prices of imported fertilizers and pesticides with the 
Association on at least an annual basis, and promptly thereafter make any adjustments 
as may be required to ensure that at least the resale prices required by paragraph (a) 
hereof are achieved.
7.
(a)
By December 31, 1992, Henan shall provide to the Association for its 
review and comment, a plan to manage water resources;
(b)
Henan shall ensure that number of new and rehabilitated wells in the 
Project Area are limited to those financed under the Project until Henan shall have 
completed an assessment of ground
water potential and Henan and the Association have agreed that there is adequate 
groundwater to support the establishment of additional new wells in the Project Area;
(c)
by December 31, 1992, Henan shall prepare and provide to the Association 
revised operation and maintenance plans for the surface irrigation schemes financed 
under the Project; and
(d)
by February 28 of each year, Henan shall: (i) provide to the Association 
for its review a report of water charges for surface irrigation schemes financed under 
the Project; and (ii) revise
such charges periodically in order to achieve by November 1, 1996, levels of water 
charges sufficient to cover all operating and maintenance costs, such costs to be 
determined in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Association.
8.
Henan shall cause each new agroprocessing or agroindustrial Project Entity which 
Page  8
participates in Part E of the Project:
(a)
to provide to the Association for its review and comment, draft 
operational guidelines before final adoption thereof;
(b)
to be managed by competent staff with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
to maintain at all times during Project implementation a debt to equity 
ratio of no greater than 5 to 1, determined in a manner acceptable to the Association.
9.
Henan shall by December 31 of each year during implementation of the Project, 
furnish to the Association for its review and approval, a program for domestic and 
overseas training and study tours to be carried out under the Project during the next 
calendar year.
10.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement and 
in order to ensure that adequate counterpart funding is made available in a timely 
manner, Henan shall:
(a)
furnish to the Association: (i) by January 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, a statement of proposed budgetary allocations for the Project at each 
of the municipal, prefecture and county levels; and (ii) by April 30 of each year 
during Project implementation, a detailed statement of approved budgetary allocations 
for the Project; and
(b)
ensure that PLGs shall take all actions necessary or appropriate to 
mobilize the provision of such counterpart funding.
