Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2242 CHA
(Henan Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2242 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Henan Province (Henan) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Henan the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Henan;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized banking institution 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
"BOFs" means the local bureaus of finance in Henan;
 
(c)
"ha" means hectare;
 
(d)
"PCBC" means the People's Construction Bank of China, a specialized 
banking institution established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(e)
"PMOs" means the local project management offices to be established by 
Henan and referred to in paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and Henan 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Project Area" means the twenty counties in Jiaozho, Xinxiang, Puyang and 
Kaifeng Municipalities and Shangqui Prefecture of Henan;
(h)
"Project Entities" means farmers and agroprocessing and agroindustrial 
enterprises, engaged in carrying out the Project at the local level;
(i)
"Provincial PMO" means the provincial project management office 
established by Henan and referred to in paragraph 1 (b) (i) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent
to eighty-one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 81,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 2001 and ending April 15, 2026. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 15, 2011, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the 
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Henan to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Henan therein set forth, shall take and 
Page  4
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Henan to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Henan in 
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Henan pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting expenditures for which payments are made 
out of the Special Account;
(b)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Henan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Henan will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Page  5
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Henan, and is legally binding upon Henan in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works                     24,600,000        45%
(2) Machinery and             23,600,000)       100% of foreign
    equipment                           )       expenditures;
                                       )        100% of local
(3) Trucks and utility         1,300,000)       expenditures
    vehicles                           )        (ex-factory
                                       )        cost); and 75%
                                       )        of local ex-
(4) Materials                 26,700,000)       penditures for
                                       )        other items
     )        procured
                                       )        locally  
(5) Consultants' ser-          1,500,000        100%
    vices, overseas
    training and
    study tours
(6) Unallocated                3,700,000
                              __________
            TOTAL             81,400,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
6,700,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures under Categories 
(1) through (5) before that date but after October 31, 1990.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  7
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to alleviate poverty; (ii) to improve and 
increase crop, livestock and fish production; (iii) to improve the use and management 
of water resources; (iv) to strengthen research and extension services; (v) to support 
agroprocessing and agroindustrial use of crops, livestock and fish production and 
by-products; and (vi) to strengthen agricultural institutions and support 
environmental protection programs in Henan.
The Project consists of the following parts to be carried out in the Project 
Area subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Irrigation and Drainage
 
1.
Expansion and rehabilitation of four Yellow River diversion schemes; 
construction and improvement of the Yu-Xia-Yong drainage;
2.
Development of a groundwater irrigation scheme by the construction of about 
8,900 new wells and rehabilitation of about 3,600 existing wells in Kaifeng, Xinxiang 
and Jiaozuo Municipalities and construction of about 1,300 new wells and 
rehabilitation of about 1,700 existing wells in Shangqui Prefecture; and construction 
of the Dongshahe River regulation scheme over approximately 91 kilometers.
3.
Establishment of a pilot program to recharge the Puyang region aquifier using 
diverted Yellow River water and construction of a network of water distribution canals 
in the pilot program area.
4.
Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the Henan Water Conservancy 
Bureau (HWCB) to plan, monitor, operate and manage surface and ground water resources.
5.
Support for research of water resource use, conservation and management by HWCB.
 
Part B:
Agricultural Development
 
1.
Construction of 20 county seed centers to produce, process and market 
high-quality wheat, rice, corn and soybean seeds and training of managers and staff of 
the county seed centers.
2.
Provision of fertilizers and pesticides to improve crop yields.
 
3.
Establishment of about 1,125 tunnel-style greenhouses, including training of 
farmers in greenhouse construction and production techniques.
4.
Provision of seeds for planting windbreaks for soil protection.
 
5.
Establishment of nurseries for growing improved wicker planting material and 
training in wicker planting, management and basket-weaving.
6.
Rehabilitation of about 2,000 ha of existing fruit orchards and the 
establishment of about 7,200 ha of new fruit orchards in reclaimed low-yielding and 
waste lands.
7.
Provision of laboratory and audiovisual equipment to about 20 county 
agrotechnical centers; upgrading of extension center facilities; and recruitment, 
training and hiring of about 8,500 female village farmer technicians for agricultural 
extension.
8.
Financing of eight research programs and technical workshops to strengthen the 
linkages between research and extension services.
9.
Training of county-level staff of the Henan Bureaus of Agriculture and Forestry 
in project management, orchard planning and design, pest and disease identification 
and control, and other project-related technical skills.
Part C:
Livestock Development
 
1.
Improvement of the livestock feed base by development of integrated alfalfa and 
Page  8
crop production for about 3000 cattle- and 1,500 sheep-raising households on about 
10,500 ha of reclaimed waste lands.
2.
Provision of seed, fertilizer, storage sheds and farm machinery and equipment to 
about 1,200 households for purposes of growing alfalfa as a cash crop and 
rehabilitating the soil along the southern bank of the Yellow River.
3.
Provision of sheds, breeding equipment and breeding does to about 4,000 
households in support of goat production.
4.
Construction of buildings and feed mills and provision of equipment and working 
capital in support of pig production by six commercial pig farms and about 300 
households.
5.
Construction of houses and the provision of equipment and working capital to 
about 2,100 households in support of chicken boiler production; construction of seven 
processing and cold storage
facilities.
6.
Strengthening of livestock technical support services; financing of applied 
research projects and the provision of training for Project supervisory and technical 
personnel.
Part D:
Aquaculture Development
 
1.
Development and rehabilitation of about 1,015 ha of fish ponds and construction 
of and provision of equipment for four feed mills and hatcheries.
2.
Financing of applied research projects to be carried out by the Henan Provincial 
Aquatic Product Research Institute and training of aquaculture technicians and 
farmers.
Part E:
Agroprocessing and Agroindustry Support
 
1.
Construction of three cold storage facilities for fruits, vegetables and meat.
 
2.
Construction of a corn processing plant in Wenxian County to produce fructose.
 
3.
Construction of a corn processing factory in Puyang Municipality to produce 
plant growth hormone (gibberellin).
4.
Construction of a 15,000 ton-per-year paper mill with integrated pulp facilities 
in Wuzhi County.
5.
A 10,000 ton-per-year expansion of an existing paper mill in Changyuan County.
 
Part F:
Institutional Support
 
1.
Technical assistance and training of project staff in the Provincial PMO and 
PMOs to strengthen Project management and cost accounting, monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting systems.
2.
Provision of consultants' services for: (a) technical reviews of the design and 
equipment specifications of agroindustrial investments financed under Part E of the 
Project and broiler investments under Part C.5 of the Project; (b) development of 
water resources planning, program and operation and maintenance plans; and (c) 
training in environmental monitoring techniques and use of
equipment.
3.
Provision of equipment, training, study tours and operating funds for the 
environmental unit of the Provincial PMO, about 20 county environmental monitoring 
stations and two provincial environmental laboratories.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Page  10
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
