                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2220




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-43710)

                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR16.4 MILLION
                        (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                      FOR A

              ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AND SAFETY PROJECT



                               December 27, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective)

                       Currency Unit = BAM (Convertible Mark)
                                1 BAM = US$ 1.55465
                              US$ 1.00 = 0.64323 BAM

                            GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1- December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAM      Bosnia and Herzegovina                 IDA         International Development
         Convertible Mark                                   Association
BH       Bosnia and Herzegovina                 IFI         International Financial Institution
BIHAMK   Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                                INT         Integrity Vice Presidency
         Automobile Club
                                                IRI         International Roughness Index
BOQ      Bill of Quantities
                                                ISR         Implementation Status Report
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
                                                MoF         Ministry of Finance
                                                MoCT        Ministry of Communications and
CPFR     Country Portfolio Financial Review                 Transport of Bosnia and
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy                       Herzegovina
CMU      Country Management Unit
                                                MTDS        Medium Term Development
DPL      Development Policy Loan
                                                            Strategy
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction
         and Development                        MTR         Mid Term Review
EIB      European Investment Bank               NPV         Net Present Value
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return       OECD        Organization of Economic Co-
EMP      Environmental Management Plan                      operation and Development
EU       European Union                         OPBM        Output and Performance Based
FA       Financial Agreement                                Maintenance
                                                OPBRMC      Output and Performance Based
FBH      Federation of Bosnia and
                                                            Road Maintenance Contract
         Herzegovina
                                                PAD         Project Appraisal Document
FBHMTC   Ministry of Transport and              PDO         Project Development Objectives
         Communications Federation of
                                                PEIR        Public Expenditure and Institutional
         Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                                            Review
FBHRD    Federation of Bosnia and               PIT         Project Implementation Team
         Herzegovina Public Company Road        PM          Project Management
         Directorate (“Javno preduzeće
         Direkcija cesta Federacije Bosne i     PPP         Public Private Partnership
         Hercegovine?)                          QAG         Quality Assessment Group
FM       Financial Management                   REBIS       Regional Balkans Infrastructure
FY       Fiscal Year                                        Study
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                 RISP        Road Infrastructure and Safety
HDM      Highway Development and                            Project
         Management System                      RMSP        Road Management and Safety
IBRD     International Bank for                             Project
         Reconstruction and Development         RSMCR       Road Safety Management Capacity
ICB      International Competitive Bidding                  Review
ICR      Implementation Completion Report       RS          Republika Srpska
RSRD   Republika Srpska Road Directorate    SEETO      South East Europe Transport
       (“Javno preduzeće Putevi                        Observatory
       Republike Srpske")                   TOR        Terms of Reference
SDR    Special Drawing Rights               TSA        Traffic Safety Agency
                                            UN         United Nations



                 Vice President:           Philippe LeHouérou
                 Country Director:         Gerard A. Byam
                 Sector Manager:           Juan Gaviria
                 Project Team Leader:      Carolina Monsalve
                 ICR Team Leader:          George Banjo
                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                      ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AND SAFETY PROJECT




                                                        CONTENTS

DATA SHEET ..................................................................................................................... i
 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
 E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
 H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
 I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 34
Annex 7. Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ................................................. 35
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 55
                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                 ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AND SAFETY PROJECT



                                    DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                        ROAD
                      Bosnia and                                        INFRASTRUCTURE
Country:                                       Project Name:
                      Herzegovina                                       AND SAFETY
                                                                        PROJECT
Project ID:           P100792                  L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-43710
ICR Date:             12/28/2012               ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                        BOSNIA AND
Lending Instrument:   SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                        HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                      XDR 16.40M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 16.30M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       XDR 16.40M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Republika Srpska Road Directorate
 Federation Road Directorate
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Investment Bank
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/19/2006    Effectiveness:             09/19/2008       09/19/2008
                                                                                09/16/2010
Appraisal:            09/10/2007    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                07/06/2011
Approval:             12/13/2007    Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                   12/31/2011       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory

                                               i
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                   10
Roads and highways                                                    90                   90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                100                  100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                 Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Gerard A. Byam                         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Juan Gaviria                           Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Maria Carolina Monsalve                Jacques Bure
ICR Team Leader:           George A. Banjo
ICR Primary Author:        George A. Banjo




                                                ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis

 Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are to reduce user costs on the priority sections of
the trunk and regional road networks, to improve the institutional framework for road
safety, and to modernize road maintenance practices.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                Reduce by the end of the project road user costs by ten percent in road sections
Indicator 1 :
                rehabilitated.
                US$0.25/km/vehicle
                US$0.339/km/vehicle
Value                                      10% reduction (i.e.
                (2004, FBH)                                                     0.208 (2012, FBH)
quantitative or                            US$0.225/km/vehi
                US$0.381/km/vehicle                                             0.254 (2012, RS)
Qualitative)                               cle)
                (2004, RS)
                0.284 (2007, RS)
Date achieved 01/01/2007                   12/31/2011                           06/30/2012
Comments
                Vehicle operating costs declined by 18.07% in the Federation and 11.22% in the
(incl. %
                RS, which meet or exceed the target of 10%.
achievement)
                Establish effective road safety office; prepare a road strategy; conduct pilot
Indicator 2 :
                operation
Value                                      1 national and 2                     Road Traffic
quantitative or none                       entity road safety                   Agency established
Qualitative)                               offices established                  in RS
Date achieved 06/02/2008                   12/31/2011                           06/30/2012
                Safety agency est in RS, but not in FBH (existing road safety unit played active
Comments
                role in promoting road safety). At natl level road safety desks exist within
(incl. %
                MOI/MOTC. Road strategies prepared. Pilot operations conducted in both ent.
achievement)
                Considered achieved.
Indicator 3 : Complete a satisfactory pilot performance based road maintenance operation
                                           2 pilots                             1 pilot implemented
Value
                                           implemented.                         in FBH and
quantitative or none
                                           Quality and costs                    contract for one
Qualitative)
                                           known.                               signed in RS.
Date achieved 06/02/2008                   12/31/2011                           06/30/2012
                Target achieved in FBH--survey results indicate 78% of respondents confirmed
Comments
                partial improvement of OPBM over conventional method (no significant cost
(incl. %
                difference between the two). In RS, only partially achieved as contract for pilot
achievement)
                signed in 6/25/12.

                                                iii
Indicator 4 :     Length of roads rehabilitated
Value
quantitative or   0.00                       240.00                             293.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/02/2008                 12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded by about 22%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Measure safety improvement (speed, seat-belt use, etc)
                                                                                 47% (RS, drivers)
                47% (RS, drivers) use
Value                                                                            use seat belt; 36%
                seat belt; 36% (FBH,
(quantitative                                 10% over baseline                  (FBH, front seat
                front seat passengers
or Qualitative)                                                                  passengers using
                using seat belts)
                                                                                 seat belts)
Date achieved     02/01/2012                  02/13/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments          Due to delay in carrying out the pilot, baseline figures were established only in
(incl. %          February 2012 instead of 2008 as planned. Hence no 'target' to be achieved.
achievement)      Achievement has to be rated as partial in that the pilot was conducted
Indicator 2 :     Issue a road safety strategy
                                                                                 Strategy prepared in
Value
                                                                                 each entity but not
(quantitative     None                        Strategy issued.
                                                                                 yet formally
or Qualitative)
                                                                                 adopted by them.
Date achieved     06/02/2008                  12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments          A road safety strategy was prepared by both FBH and RS in 2008 through own
(incl. %          efforts and these were to be updated under the project. Achievement rated partial
achievement)      as strategy yet to be adopted i.e. issued, by the entities.
Indicator 3 :     Road users satisfaction survey toward performance based road maintenance
Value                                                              Survey
                                              Survey completed                   Completed in FBH
(quantitative     None                                             conducted in
                                              in each entity                     but not RS
or Qualitative)                                                    FBH.
Date achieved     06/02/2008                  02/14/2012           06/05/2012    06/30/2012
                  FBH survey results was non-conclusive on merit of performance based road
Comments
                  maintenance over traditional maintenance works--users found it difficult to
(incl. %
                  differentiate between pilot roads & those improved under other interventions.
achievement)
                  Achievement rated as partial
Indicator 4 :     Roads rehabilitated, Non-rural
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         256.48             293.00          240.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/09/2008                     08/05/2011         06/11/2012      06/30/2012

                                                  iv
                Bank core indicator retrofitted into results framework that would have been
Comments
                better placed as intermediate indicator. All roads rehabilitated under project are
(incl. %
                non-rural. Actual length of roads rehabilitated is 293 km--greater than target of
achievement)
                240km by 22%
Indicator 5 :   Roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads
Value
(quantitative   79.00                       N/A                               82.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/06/2008                    12/31/2011                        06/30/2012
                Bank core indicator retrofitted into results framework. No target set--objective to
Comments
                measure change over project period. Roads figures under FBHRD/RSRD
(incl. %
                responsibility. Increase of about 4% in roads in good/fair condition over project
achievement)
                implementation period

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/30/2008          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/14/2008          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     06/30/2009          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     01/13/2010          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     8.84
  5     06/08/2010          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.82
  6     12/29/2010          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            18.95
  7     04/05/2011          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            20.69
  8     12/13/2011          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            24.49
  9     03/25/2012          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   24.49
 10     06/24/2012      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            24.81


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reallocation of funds from
                                                     components 2 and 3 to 1 mainly
 09/16/2010       N       S       S          13.07
                                                     to increase funding for
                                                     component 1.
                                                     Reallocation of funds. Project
                                                     closing date extension. To allow
 07/06/2011       N       S     MS           21.86
                                                     completion of road safety
                                                     component in RS.



                                                  v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) is a state with a complex governance structure comprising
two entities, each with a high degree of autonomy: the Federation of Bosnia and
Hezegovina (FBH) which is further decentralized into 10 cantons, and the Republika
Srpska (RS). The autonomous Brcko district was added to the structure in 1999. There
are 137 municipalities in BH, of which 74 are located in the FBH, and 63 in the RS. At
the time of appraisal, increased investment in infrastructure was seen as needed in order
to support economic growth.

The transport sector was at appraisal being administered and managed at the State level
by the Ministry of Communications and Transaport (MoCT), and at the entity level, by
separate Ministries of Transport and Communications. At the operational level, there
were four road Directorates, two in each entity, responsible for motorways and magistral
roads respectively; the Directorate in RS also has responsibility for regional roads. This
fragmentation of responsibilities in the sector was seen as increasing complexity and
transaction costs and eroding public sector capacity at all levels. Significant investments
in the sector since the end of the war, including a considerable share of external
financing, had helped to improve the overall condition of the road networks. Due to the
severity of war damage however, only 11 percent of the network was at the time of
appraisal in good condition with 40 percent in poor condition and requiring pavement
strengthening or rehabilitation. Moreover, traffic was growing at about 5 percent calling
for upgrading of road infrastructure in the medium term. Substantial opportunities were
also seen as existing to consolidate sector policy making and operational responsibilities,
but this required political commitment.

The Government’s strategic sector focus at appraisal was: (i) developing a
comprehensive transport sector policy and strategy framework with support from the
World Bank (WB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD);
(ii) clearing maintenance backlog and strengthening maintenance capabilities by
increasing recurrent expenditure; and (iii) reducing the social and economic burden of
road traffic accidents. The RISP, together with the parallel European Investment Bank
(EIB) and EBRD operations, was seen as central to assisting the Government meet these
strategic needs.

The PAD stated three rationale for Bank assistance: (i) to build upon achievements of the
Road Management and Safety Project (RMSP) then ongoing that had supported
institutional and sectoral reforms, domestic contracting industry development,
development of a road and bridge database for the magistral and regional roads which
had been used to prioritize investments on these roads and a pilot project to improve road
safety; (ii) the comparative advantage of the Bank particularly in introducing innovation
in road maintenance and road safety, efficiency, and capacity building that should help to
deepen the development of the roads sector in BH; and (iii) the strong positive dialogue



                                            1
with government and the Bank’s ability to catalyze other donors. These reasons were all
seen as essential for the development of the road sector.

The higher level objectives relevant to the Project related to (i) the 2004 BH Medium
Term Development Strategy (MTDS), (ii) the European Union (EU) policy on transport
infrastructure (iii) the Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY05-07 which
respectively identified transport as a major sector vital to the economy, encouraged
cooperation between IFIs, and prioritized private sector led growth and investment in key
social and economic infrastructure. The Project would contribute to their achievement by
financing rehabilitation of priority sections of the magistral and regional road networks,
gaining government commitments to increase financing of routine and winter
maintenance and piloting performance-based maintenance contracts all of which would
increase private sector role in the sector. Planned road safety improvements also had
social and economic benefits. The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY08-11 then
under preparation highlighted the importance of infrastructure development.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO was to reduce user costs on the priority sections of the magistral and regional
road networks, to improve the institutional framework for road safety, and to modernize
road maintenance practices 1. Key performance indicators were: (i) reduce road user
costs by 10 percent on the road sections rehabilitated under the project (about 240 km 2);
(ii) increase the quantity and quality of safety outputs (e.g. policing operations,
promotional activities, systematic engineering treatment, and data collection) 3; and (iii)
satisfactory piloting of output-based road         maintenance (OPBM) contracts and
comparison of the outcomes of these contracts with other regular maintenance contracts
to assess whether the pilot operations could be scaled up.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Road users, including pedestrians, were expected to benefit from the road improvements
as improved ride quality would lead to reduced vehicle operating costs, and sound
structural roads would lead to lower life cycle costs of the road assets including sidewalks

1
  This text of the PDO is the same as in the Legal Agreement but the text in the results framework contained very minor
differences which did not affect the meaning or understanding of the PDO. There were 5 outcome indicators specified
in the PAD and only 3 in the Legal Agreement as a result of three of the PAD outcome indicators being combined into
one.
2
  It is to be noted that the Procurement Plan in the PAD contained 319.88 km of roads in both entities from which the
240 kms to be rehabilitated were to be selected.

3
  Indicators for capturing these attributes include improvements in compliance with speed limits, use of seat belts,
computerization of vehicle and driver information and use of campaigns to promote road safety awareness.




                                                            2
provided. The road improvements represented about 80 percent of the Credit. Road users
would also benefit from expected improvements to the road safety legislative framework,
improvements to the information base for decision making on road safety through
carrying out of planned road safety studies and pilot activities, and the training and public
awareness campaigns which had been highlighted in the Road Safety Management
Capacity Review (RSMCR) of March 2007 4. These project actions would also benefit
agencies and personnel with road safety responsibilities, particularly the traffic police and
municipalities, via increases in their competencies from participation in implementing the
activities. Consultants and contractors who participated in the implementation of the
Project or attended project organized workshops would also benefit by being exposed to
international good practices. At a higher level, the general public was expected to benefit
through more efficient and effective use of public resources arising from improved
capacity for service delivery in the implementing agencies and their adoption of
improved approaches to road maintenance.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Credit for the RISP was of value SDR 16.4 million equivalent to US$ 25 million. 5

Component I: Rehabilitation of Selected Roads (US$ 24 million equivalent, Bank
financed share US$I9 million equivalent). This component, linked to the outcome
indicator ‘reduce user costs on the priority sections of the magistral and regional road
networks’, financed civil works to rehabilitate and repair 240 km of the magistral and
regional road network in both entities during 2008- 11.

Component 2: Road Safety (US$ 5 million equivalent, Bank Financed Share US$5
million equivalent). There were two subcomponents linked to achieving the outcome
indicator ‘improve the institutional framework for road safety’. The first of US$2.60
million equivalent would build capacity to address road safety issues and provide support
to the preparation of action plans at each entity level, including cost-effective
interventions to address key road safety issues and establish a harmonized monitoring
framework for road safety activities in the entities. The second subcomponent of US$2.40
million equivalent was aimed at conducting pilot activities along high-risks sections, to
measure the effectiveness of stakeholder co-ordination and the impact of road safety
interventions.

Component 3: Technical assistance and capacity building (US$1 million equivalent
Bank Financed Share US$l million equivalent). This component, linked to achieving
the outcome indicator ‘modernize road maintenance practices’, comprised consulting
services: (i) to provide technical guidance on introducing output and performance-based
maintenance (OPBM) in each entity; and (ii) to build capacity based on the
recommendations of the Transport Sector (TransSec) study (the activities under this
category were to be defined by the Road Directorates during implementation). The $0.5
million allocated to each entity was seen as provisional and could be reallocated to other

4
    Funded by the Global Road Safety Facility managed by the World Bank.
5
    Due to changes in the exchange rate, the US dollar amount disbursed was US$25.62 million.


                                                           3
categories during implementation. Only the technical assistance related to the setup of the
OPBM was identified in detail at an estimated cost of about $100,000 per entity.

The RISP was the sixth Bank transport operation since 1996 and part of a larger
collaborative program by IFIs, of about S$210 million, to rehabilitate about 2,200 km of
the magistral and regional roads in BH. This was based on work financed under the
earlier RMSP. The program financing included: (i) US$25 million from IDA; (ii) US$5
million from the entity budgets; (iii) US$75 million from the EBRD; and (iv) Euro 80
million - US$l05 million equivalent- from the EIB. The EBRD and EIB also contributed
respectively to activities for the introduction of the OPBM, and technical assistance for
the preparation and design of the roads to be financed by the IFIs.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project went through two ‘Level 2’ restructurings that were approved in September
16, 2010 and July 6, 2011, respectively. There was no cancellation of funds. The first
restructuring reallocated additional financing for component 1 to allow completion of the
planned 240km of roads. The second restructuring entailed the extension of the closing
date of the Project by six months to June 30 2012 and reallocation of funds from
component 3 to 2 in the RS. The revised allocations from the restructuring are shown in
the table below. One of the effects of the allocations is that credit proceeds were not used
for component 3.

                                     FBH                                                   RS
Componen         Origina       After first         After second        Origina      After first         After second
t                l             restructurin        restructurin        l            restructurin        restructurin
                               g                   g                                g                   g
1                6.2           7.4                 7.4                 7.4          7.4                 6.99
2                1.6           0.8                 0.8                 0.6          0.8                 1.21
3                0.4           0.0                 0.0                 0.2          0.0                 0.00
Total            8.200         8.2                 8.200               8.200        8.20                8.200

1.7 Other significant changes

These related to the scope, financing and implementation of the Project as follows:
(i) component 1- funding from outside of the Project (from EIB, EBRD and FBH budget)
of some road sections and bridges initially planned to be rehabilitated using credit
proceeds. 6 This was due to cost overruns without which more roads and bridges could in
fact have been rehabilitated under the project.; (ii) component 2 - decrease in the scope of
the pilot road safety activities, a result of reallocation of funds from this component to
component 1 which reduced the amount available for pilot activities. In the RS, delays in
the procurement of the road safety consultancy required extension of the Project closing
date by six months with time only for a few scaled down pilot activities. These changes

6
  At appraisal, the project envisaged the rehabilitation of bridges in the FBH. These were kept in the project, but some
of these were financed with funds from outside the project,--one bridge needed major repairs to the foundations,
requiring much more funds than envisaged at appraisal. The Results Framework did not include specific indicators for
the bridges, and the economic analysis for Component 1 excluded the bridges.


                                                            4
were effected through Level 2 restructuring of the Project on September 16, 2010 and
July 06, 2011; and (iii) component 3 - the initially planned form of the OPBM contract,
performance based, changed to a hybrid consisting of traditional works measurement and
performance based related to achievement of specified road serviceability standards.
These changes were technically acceptable. None of the above changes required Board
approval. There were no changes to the implementation arrangements.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation of the Project was supported by relevant lessons from the RSMP and
valuable information on the sector from ongoing major studies particularly the 2007 draft
Transport Sector Review study (TranSec) which recommended increased road
maintenance as a priority for the sector. Bank dialogue with government, EBRD and EIB
on the findings of the studies resulted in consensus on the need to continue efforts under
the RSMP to reduce the backlog of maintenance on the magistral and regional roads and
to improve road safety based on the recommendations of the RSMCR. This consensus
formed the foundation for the design of Project. There was also a desire within FBHRD
and RSRD to improve quality and reduce the unit cost of maintenance works. This led to
agreement to include pilot testing of the OPBM approach, in conjunction with the EBRD.
This resulted in a simple three component design for the Project focused on rehabilitation
of roads and bridges (only in FBH), road safety improvements and pilot testing of an
OPBM approach.

Selection of roads to be rehabilitated was based entirely on the economic assessment of
the magistral and regional road network carried out under the RMSP, with those with the
highest benefits selected first until all funds were expended. However, the bridges in
FBH were not included in the economic assessment notwithstanding the statement in the
PAD (p40, para 101) that ‘studies and economic analysis were prepared for the 150 km
and for the bridges …….?. Though the location of the road sections were geographically
scattered, this was acceptable as both the Bank and the road directorates had experience
from the RSMP in managing needed site supervisions. The road safety component was
designed to implement recommendations of the RSMCR that was completed in March
2007. To facilitate exchange of regional experience in OPBM, the Bank organized a
workshop in Serbia on international experience in its implementation. The RISP was
designed to be implemented by the same agencies in the entities that had capably
implemented the RSMP.

The PDO specified for the Project was well focused and identifiable with each
component. The performance indicators were relevant, realistic and easily measurable.
The three outcome indicators specified in the PAD in reality were five as the second
indicator had three elements needing to be measured which introduced some complexity
to their tracking and application. For the outcome indicator ‘reduction in road user costs’,
it would appear that it was specified in the wrong currency, United State dollar, instead of
the Euro. None of the performance indicators related to the rehabilitation of bridges in the
FBH, perhaps because at appraisal their estimated cost was a small proportion (about 10


                                             5
percent) of planned road rehabilitation. The cost of Project preparation was borne mainly
by the FBHRD and RSRD, a sign of their commitment to the Project. An additional sign
of the commitment of the entities was their willingness to accept as a project covenant an
increase in their expenditure on road maintenance by five percent annually in real terms
during the implementation of the Project (but see 2.2). This covenant proved difficult to
be achieved during implementation, particularly by the FBH, due deteriorated macro-
economic situation and changes in and decrease in the value added tax 7. At Project pre-
appraisal in March of 2007, agreement was reached with other IFIs and the government
that Bank procurement and financial management procedures would apply regardless of
source of funds. This was welcomed by counterparts as it would reduce their transaction
costs.

As with earlier Bank operations, designs and bid documents for roads and bridges to be
rehabilitated were based on visual surveys and not available for review during
preparation. Costing of the road works were therefore carried out by the Bank team based
on rough cost estimates provided by the road directorates and engineering judgments
based on review of those designs that were available. For the bridges, preparation did not
include their inspection and nominal estimates were used in costing needed repairs.
Inherent in the above is the risk of underestimation of costs. However, for the roads, the
team considered the risk well mitigated by the high economic rate of return calculated for
the potential Project roads implying that a significant increase in the estimated costs
would still yield rates of returns higher than the Bank norm of 12 percent. Underlying this
position is the assumption that the target length of roads would still be reached
notwithstanding a significant cost increase. Significant cost increases were experienced
during implementation (see 2.2 below for a discussion of this) but the target length of
roads to be rehabilitated was met reflecting perhaps a conservative target.

Documentation of the Project in the PAD could have been improved. For example,
description of component 1 in the main part of the PAD omitted the length of roads to be
rehabilitated in each entity, did not indicate that bridges would be rehabilitated in FBH.
Description of component 3 did not indicate the need for implementation of the pilot
OPBM as specified in the results framework. Some differences also existed between the
cost of roads to be rehabilitated in the RS stated in the PAD under project description
(Euro11.095 million) and the procurement plan (Euro11.707 million) which contributed
to a misunderstanding of the amount available for road rehabilitation in the RS leading to
procurement delays during implementation. These errors were however well addressed
during implementation through intensive engagement and follow up on the part of the
Bank team and aggressive seeking of additional funding from other sources (see 1.7) by
the implementing agencies when it became clear that project funds would not be
sufficient to complete road and bridge works planned under the project. More
information could also have been provided in annex 4 of the PAD on the approach to cost
estimation, particularly the possible impact of the still prevalent post conflict situation in
the country which introduced an element of uncertainty to the estimation of costs.


7
  The revenue allocation in the FBH for road maintenance is directly linked to value added tax and changes in the
allocation of this between different expenditure heads led a decrease in the amount going to road maintenance.


                                                          6
Safeguards, financial and procurement assessments followed standard Bank guidelines.
The design provided for all civil works to take place within existing road rights of way
thus triggering no land acquisition. No Resettlement and Land Acquisition Framework
(RLAF) was prepared for the Project. The engineering designs used appropriate good
engineering practices to ensure that works would be carried out without adverse
environmental impact. Issues raised by the financial and procurement assessments were
mitigated using standard Bank instruments (see discussion under risk assessment below).
The road directorates were encouraged to increase their then existing procurement staff to
cater for the additional duties related to the implementation of the overall program (PAD
p55). According to the staff of the RSRD, it would have been good to see clauses relating
to safety of works in the bid documents given more emphasis in the assessment of bids.
The objective in this would be to ensure that adequate provision is made for undertaking
this activity in during the civil works 8 . An agreement was reached between the
implementing agencies, the Bank, EBRD and EIB for a common format to be used for
project progress reports.

The Bank team at appraisal rated the Project risk as low largely because the Project built
on the earlier successful RMSP whose implementation mechanisms and organizational
structure would be used for the RISP. The team however identified three risks: (i) bidders
charging a large premium for the OPBM contracts; (ii) inadequate coordination and
cooperation among all relevant agencies in the implementation of the road safety
interventions; and (iii) misuse of project funds. Mitigation measures, which proved
effective, were: (i) involvement of contractors and road agencies in awareness raising
activities on the OPBM; (ii) obtaining strong political commitment to addressing road
safety issues which came with the passage of the State level Road Safety Law; and (iii)
inclusion in the Financial Management Manual of an appropriate internal control
framework, enforcement of funds flow mechanisms, auditing of project accounts by
independent auditors and conduct of regular financial management supervision and
procurement prior and post reviews. Two additional risks could have been flagged: (i)
dilution of the capacity of the implementing agencies through staff departures given that
in design, the Project placed a high premium on the capacity of the implementing agency;
and (ii) potential under estimation of the costs of civil works and cost inflation given the
approach to civil works cost estimation, the scale of the planned investments under RISP
and by EBRD, EIB and the still prevalent post conflict situation which created
uncertainty. Dilution of the capacity of the RSRD occurred during pre-appraisal of the
Project with its experienced head departing and both the financial and procurement
management positions vacant. It is a standard requirement that key project staff changes
be notified to the Bank before being implemented. Had this been done, it would have
availed the Bank team at least an opportunity to prevent and or influence the timing of the
staff changes that took place. The procurement position was not filled in a timely fashion
leading to delay in implementing the procurement plan The cost overruns in relation to
the rehabilitation of roads that emerged during implementation would perhaps not have
been so problematic, had physical and price contingencies been stated as unallocated in

8
  By the time of the ICR mission, all civil works had been completed so it is not possible to make an observation on this
issue directly in relation to the Project. However, during the field visit related to the ICR mission, the mission
witnessed very bad practices by contractors with regard to safety of works.


                                                           7
the project costing. Given the impact of these two risks during implementation, the
Project risk assessment at appraisal may more correctly have been moderate. There was
no Quality at Entry assessment of the Project done by QAG.


2.2 Implementation
Implementation of the Project was rated in the ISR as satisfactory up to the time of its
mid-term review. Subsequently, the rating was downgraded to moderately satisfactory up
to Project closing except for one occasion when the rating was satisfactory.
Implementation of the project experienced some delays which could not be fully
recovered leading to extension of the Project closing date by six months. Effectiveness of
the Project was delayed by about nine months due to the complex administrative approval
process at the State and entity levels. Significant delays were experienced in launching
procurement due to the late effectiveness of the Project. In the RS, additional delays arose
due to their use of a road design approach lower in standard than agreed during
preparation which meant that they would be less safe and durable. The RS made an error
in trying to deal with higher than estimated bid prices they had launched under other IFI
projects. High international oil prices contributing to these higher costs, raising the price
of civil works inputs such as asphalt.
Dealing with the cost overruns led to significant delays in the procurement of the civil
works. It also led to the curtailment of other planned activities under the Project,
particularly the road safety pilot. Given these difficulties, it is commendable that the civil
works were able to be completed within the initial project closing date: it was completion
of the road safety activities and signing of the OPBM contract in the RS that necessitated
extension of the project closing date. This recovery of lost time in implementing
component 1 was due to good technical guidance provided by the Bank team to ensure
that roads rehabilitated would be safe and of good quality, good project management
evidenced by timely restructuring of the Project and subsequent effective follow up. The
entities and the road directorates contributed to this achievement also by their willingness
to adhere to the full rehabilitation of roads as agreed during preparation and timely action
in sourcing additional funds from the EBRD (in the case of RS for three road sections)
and in the case of FBH from own funds and the EIB. That these IFIs agreed to the
requests demonstrated good cooperation between the government and the IFIs in
implementing the overall program.

A total of eight Bank supervision missions were carried out during implementation of the
Project in line with the regional norm of two supervision missions per fiscal year. There
were however notable gaps in their timing with the first twelve months after negotiation
and ten months after approval. It was during this period that errors occurred in the design
approach applied in the RS to road rehabilitation under component 1. Project supervision
consultants did not accompany the Bank team and counterpart staff during field visits.
This is a good practice that would allow the consultants to make direct contributions to
discussions on issues discovered during such visits and allow the Bank team to assess
their competence.

The Project experienced late submission of progress and financial audit reports.
However, improved Bank team monitoring of this issue led to their more timely


                                              8
submission later. Outcome of supervision missions were well documented in the aide
memoire and related ISR with key issues highlighted. Within the ISR, the Bank team was
provided guidance by sector and country management particularly in relation to ensuring
that project progress reports were provided timely by the implementing agencies. The
Bank project team flagged timely to management that the project covenant relating to
road maintenance was unlikely to be met by the FBH. There is no documented evidence
that the option of waiver of this covenant was suggested for inclusion in the first or
second restructuring. This suggestion could have come from the Bank, given the
economic downturn, the deteriorated financial situation of the State and thus of the
entities since appraisal: moreover discussions on a development policy loan (DPL)
operation had been initiated by the Bank. In the end, this covenant was not enforced by
the Bank.

The agreement during project preparation to have common formats for project reports
would appear not to have been followed up, particularly since the implementing agencies
had the information readily available. This was a missed opportunity for the Bank team to
obtain information on cost of contracts being financed by EIB and EBRD which could
have been useful to the Bank in dealing with cost overruns. There is no documented
evidence of coordination between the Bank and EBRD in regard to the covenant on
maintenance funding which was also a covenant in the Loan agreement of EBRD. The
Minister of Communications and Transport in the RS complained about the quality of
road rehabilitation works being carried out. The May 17, 2010 mission of the Bank
undertook a thorough review of the works completed and ongoing and could not find
clear evidence on this. Subsequent missions including for the ICR have confirmed the
good quality of works carried out under the Project.

The Project Mid Term Review (MTR), initially planned for January 2010, was conducted
in October 2010 due to delayed effectiveness of the Project. By the MTR, progress with
implementation was good with disbursement at about sixty percent, a sign that the initial
delays had been recovered. The MTR included field visits to four project sites in the RS
where contract amendments had been made to correct road design deficiencies and the
quality of works were considered good and of correct scope. Bank participation in a
follow on project focusing on upgrading and reconstruction of tunnels and bridges with
some road rehabilitation was requested during the mission.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The results framework for the Project was adequate and had indicators appropriate for
monitoring the achievement of the PDO. There was some element of complexity in
defining some of the outcome indicators with some reflecting two discrete activities or
outputs. The outcome indicator relating to road safety had three parts – establishing road
safety offices, preparing road safety strategies and conducting pilots - which made it
somewhat complex. Some baseline data relating to road safety were not available during
appraisal and were to be measured during the first year of implementation. No specific
arrangement was however put in place to ensure their timely measurement. As earlier
noted, there was no indicator to measure achievements in relation to the bridge works in
FBH.



                                            9
The FBHRD and RSRD had a good database on their road network from the asset
management system created under the RMSP which facilitated calculation of user
benefits using HDM-4. They also collected data in relation to the condition of the road
network (e.g. roughness index) although this was not included in the results framework.
The consultants that carried out the road safety studies were able to help these
directorates establish the values of the road safety outcome indicators. In particular, the
road safety studies led to the establishment of the socio-economic cost of road accidents
in both entities. Thus the road directorates and the Bank team were able to adequately
report on achieving the PDO.
Monitoring of the indicators in the ISR was good with both sector and country
management units providing clear guidance to the team on issues raised with the notable
exception of the possible waiver of the covenant relating to funding of maintenance by
the entities when, particularly in the FBH, compliance was proving difficult. (see 2.2)
The initial ISR contained the PAD indicators (5 outcome indicators and 8 intermediate
indicators). However, in the fourth ISR, the outcome indicators were reduced to 3 to
reflect the FA by combining to one three indicators relating to road safety. In addition,
one indicator, length of roads rehabilitated, was put as an outcome indicator and the
intermediate indicators reduced to 3 by combining some specified singly in the PAD into
a single indicator. While it was possible to still identify within the ‘composite’ outcome
and intermediate indicators their PAD identify, these changes had the effect of reducing
the clarity of reporting on the different elements of the indicators. During the above
mentioned amendment, two Bank core indicator ‘roads rehabilitated, non-rural’ and
‘roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads (%)’ were introduced
in line with new Bank guidelines. It is noted that the ISR reflected the indicator relating
to the OPBM as ‘complete a satisfactory OPBM’ with no indication of the definition of
‘satisfactory’. The FA text suggests that ‘satisfactory’ could mean ‘lessons drawn’.
During the Project, from the survey carried on the pilot in FBH, lessons were however
drawn.
The entities have found the indicators useful in reporting on the impact of their efforts to
improve the condition of the magistral and regional road network. This should help them
going forward in making the case for undertaking interventions similar to those carried
out under the RISP. The road safety indicators would also help the entities better design
their awareness raising campaigns and measure their impact. Determination of the socio-
economic cost of road accidents, the first time it has been done in the entities, has been
helpful in drawing attention to the macro-economic dimension of road safety. For
example, according to the Ministry of Finance of RS, they now appreciate the positive
impact of a focus on road safety in a road project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Compliance with safeguards policy is rated satisfactory.

Environmental safeguards. The RISP was implemented in full compliance with the
relevant environmental safeguards policy of the Bank for an Environmental Category B
project (the Project triggered only OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment). The
Environmental Assessment, carried out during project pre-appraisal, was thorough, with
disclosure and public consultations carried out prior to Project Appraisal. Typical sites


                                             10
were visited in both entities and discussions held with staff of the environmental units of
FBHRD and RSRD to assess their experience in implementing the ongoing RMSP
project. The site specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were developed for
each of the Project sites, with adequate public disclosure and consultations. From
experience in implementing the RSMP EMP, some monitoring functions in the EMP for
the RMSP were agreed to be transferred to the supervision engineers in the EMP for the
RISP. All of the identified potential environmental impacts within the EMPs (dust
generation, noise, waste management, and traffic disruptions) were mitigated through
standard practices of good engineering and EMP forms were included in the tender
documents and contracts for subcontractors. No changes to the runoff patterns were made
in the rehabilitation activities. In addition, there have been no incidences of non-
compliance with the EMP, nor have there been any formal or informal complaints.
Social safeguards. The Project did not finance activities that involved any form of land
acquisition or restriction of access to sources of livelihoods. All works were conducted
within existing publicly owned right-of-way. In a case when a design proposal required
some acquisition of land, the Bank team encouraged revision of the design to avoid land
take. It is noted that had a RLAF existed, its application would have allowed
accommodation of the proposed design. The FBHRD and RSRD were required to prepare
community surveys to assess the impact of the (i) road and bridge rehabilitations; (ii)
road safety pilots; and (iii) user perceptions of the OPBM contract. These were carried
out only in the FBH due procurement delays and the results from these are reported under
section 3.

Fiduciary

Compliance with fiduciary requirements is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Financial risk mitigation measures put in place proved adequate during implementation.
This is notwithstanding staffing issues encountered in the RSRD. Financial management
performance is rated as satisfactory. There were material delays in carrying out
procurement tasks in the directorates, particularly RSRD. Deficiencies in documenting
the procurement plan in the PAD also contributed to observed delays during
implementation. The procurement threshold for International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
was US$500,000 potentially restricting participation of domestic contractors or
increasing their transaction costs: in Moldova, the threshold at the time of appraisal of the
RISP was US$1,000,000. These elements contributed to overall implementation delays as
a result of which procurement performance is rated moderately satisfactory. A Country
Portfolio Fiduciary Review (CPFR) was carried out between December 7 and 18, 2009
found the RISP marginally satisfactory regarding procurement and satisfactory regarding
financial management. The findings of the CPFR were discussed by the team with
counterparts with follow on remedial measures proposed concerning financial and
procurement management.

As of December 2012, the revised amount of the credit was US$25.62 million against the
original US$25.00 million. The difference is due to changes in the exchange rate. There
was no cancellation but an amount of US$0.15 million was undisbursed.



                                             11
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Both entities are continuing with actions for the adoption of the road safety strategies.
The OPBM contract was signed on June 25, 2012 in the RS and under execution and its
impacts are planned to be monitored. FBHRD and RSRD were preparing a new program
of investments on their magistral and regional road networks at the time of the ICR
mission. There was as yet no State level sector policy but the mission was informed by
FBHRD that FBH’s spatial policy had a key component on policy toward magistral and
regional roads. The final draft of this policy is with Parliament for approval. Road sector
management and financing is still an issue especially regarding financing of maintenance
particularly in the FBH whose regional road network, being under the cantons, did not
benefit from the RISP. Conduct of the reclassification of the road network in both FBH
and RS, leading to reallocation of responsibilities between jurisdictions could be part of
the solution. The RISP has been successful in increasing awareness of the need to address
road safety issues at both the political and technical levels. The action plans on road
safety prepared under the RISP, the improved legal and institutional framework and the
increased capacity in the entities provide a good basis for further program of activities to
address road safety. There is as yet no future plan by any IFI for a follow up operation
similar to the RISP. However, discussion was recently initiated regarding a possible
follow up to the RISP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO remains quite relevant to the FBH and RS objectives of continued improvement
of their magistral and regional road network evidenced by their preparation of new
projects focused on this part of the network for which they sought Bank assistance during
the mid-term review of the RISP and during the ICR mission. The achievement of the
Project in relation to road safety has provided the much needed policy, institutional and
legal frameworks for the two entities to be able to intensify actions to improve road
safety consistent with the UN Decade of Action on Road Safety. The State now needs to
consolidate the entity level strategies into a national strategy. The road safety activities
have also increased technical competencies and public awareness, laying the foundations
for achievement of the objectives of the Decade in the two entities, particularly given the
increased awareness at high policy level of the importance to prioritize addressing road
safety issues. The pilot OPBM contracts, being hybrid contracts, remain relevant to the
entities attempt to improve their approaches to road maintenance because they provide
useful lessons on the comparative advantages of conventional and performance based
approaches and when it would be appropriate to use either of the approaches. The design
approach employed in the road rehabilitation works of a combination of pavement
overlays and spot improvements remain valid simply because it allows interventions to be
tailored to the conditions of specific road sections, increasing the cost effectiveness of
such interventions. The mix of technical studies and pilot implementation employed in
relation to the road safety activities is an approach which remains relevant as the two
entities in future seek to update the baseline data that have been collected and validate
perhaps the currently estimated value of the socio-economic costs of road accidents. The


                                            12
implementation arrangements remain relevant with the capacity of both FBHRD and
RSRD increased from implementation of the Project.

The competitiveness pillar of the current CPS (FY12-15) sees continuation of investment
in regional transport and opportunities for the IFC to promote PPP in infrastructure
services. While this could be interpreted as implying a shift away from support of further
assistance to improving the magistral and regional road network, it is noted that there is
an emerging understanding between the sector and the CMU that the Bank should
continue its support to the government in its efforts to eliminate all maintenance backlogs
and improve road safety on its magistral and regional road network.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory.

The PDO for the RISP was concise with a good link between the project outcome
indicators and related intermediate outcome indicators. The Project was implemented in a
very complex institutional arrangement of State and entity level agencies. It nevertheless
was successful based on good sector work, clear understanding between the government,
Bank, EBRD and EIB and achievements under the earlier RSMP. The solid efforts of the
project teams (Bank and Borrower) and their proactive working also contributed to the
success of the project. Of the eight intermediate outcome indicators stated in the PAD, all
were achieved by Project closing except two: (i) adoption of new road safety strategies by
the entities; and (ii) implementation of an OPBM contract in the RS. The strategies have
been prepared, approved by the Road Safety Council and waiting formal adoption by the
government while the contract for the OPBM was signed just before the Project closed.
At project closing, project achievements in relation to the three key outcome indicators
were as follows:
    (i)     Regarding the outcome indicator ‘reduce road user costs on the priority road
            sections rehabilitated under the project’ the target length of roads to be
            rehabilitated was 240 kms for its achievement. This target was exceeded with
            121 km in FBH and 172 km in RS rehabilitated respectively, a total 293 km.
            Road user costs were reduced by 18.07 percent for the nine road sections
            funded from the credit in the FBH and by 11.22 percent in the RS,
            achievements which exceeded or met the target of 10 percent. Achievement of
            this indicator is regarded as satisfactory;
    (ii)    for the indicator ‘improve the institutional framework for road safety’, all the
            intermediate indicators were achieved except that relating to adoption of new
            road strategies by each entity: the strategies were prepared but yet to be
            formally adopted by the government. Harmonization of these policies and
            strategies was important and achieved through due diligence by the
            consultants responsible for their preparation. The studies also led to the
            determination of baseline values for important parameters such as wearing of
            seatbelts and the socio-economic cost of road accidents which provide the
            entities micro and macro level benchmarks for policy making and
            implementation. The achievement of this indicator is rated as satisfactory.


                                            13
   (iii)   The third outcome indicator modernize road maintenance practice required
           that one pilot OPBM contract be signed and implemented in each entity with
           their quality and costs known. While each entity did sign a contract,
           implementation only took place in FBH and this only for one year. Results
           from user surveys and measurements carried out on the FBH pilot suggest that
           the quality of roads maintained under OPBM contracts were perceived as
           better than for conventional contracts there was no noticeable difference in
           cost between the two approaches. These results do not provide enough
           evidence for reasonable conclusions to be formed on the efficacy of the pilot
           particularly as it was implemented for only one year which coincided with a
           severe winter which made maintenance activities and costs atypical. Given
           this and the fact that implementation took place in only the FBH, achievement
           of this outcome indicator has to be rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
Efficiency is rated as satisfactory.

The overall ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the civil works under
the Project has been determined as 59%, well above the 12 percent threshold, but below
the appraisal estimate of 73%. This overall EIRR demonstrates the robustness of the
economic justification for the Project. Individual values for the various road sections
range from 10 to 129 percent. The ex-post economic analysis, like the ex-ante, did not
include an assessment of the benefits of the road safety improvements or rehabilitation of
the bridges. It did not also include the costs of rehabilitating road sections eventually
funded from outside of the project as these were not included in the calculation of the
length of roads rehabilitated under the project. The repairs to the bridges have clearly
increased their structural integrity thus contributing to smooth flow of traffic (hence
reduced travel time and costs) and road safety. From the user surveys carried out relating
to road safety, public awareness has been increased creating greater receptivity of police
enforcement actions which contributes to decreasing the socio-economic costs of road
accidents.

The economic analysis at appraisal was for the rehabilitation of about 354 km of
magistral and regional roads in FBH and RS, a figure more than the 240 km planned for
financing under the RISP. The analysis established the EIRR at 73 percent. All sections
yielded positive NPV with the minimum EIRR per section of 25 percent which is
significantly higher than the discount rate assumed thus indicating viability of the project.
The PAD did not contain an economic analysis for the bridges rehabilitated in FBH. The
difference between the ex-ante and ex-post EIRR of 73 and 59 percent respectively is
attributable mainly to the difference between estimated and actual construction costs. As
earlier discussed, there were cost overruns arising from poor cost estimates during
preparation which led to funding from components 2 and 3 being significantly reduced to
accommodate the needs of component 1. The three rehabilitated road sections with the
lowest calculated ex-post EIRR (10, 14 and 17 percent respectively) had the highest
ratios of actual to estimated constructions costs at 2.4, 2.8 and 2.9 respectively.




                                             14
Other indicators of efficiency. Despite delays experienced early in implementation, the
rehabilitation of roads under the Project was completed within schedule. A comparison of
estimated and actual costs of these works show an increase of about 40% (see annex 3,
table 2). This is not an unusual degree of cost increase for the type of road works carried
out under the project, the high cost increases during the project period in international oil
prices which feeds into the cost of bitumen and the post conflict situation in the country
which still affected perception of the country by international contractors. The technical
assistance associated with components 2 and 3 were less efficiently implemented arising
from a combination of delays due to the need to achieve common understanding of terms
of references (for the road safety studies) and approaches (for the OPBM pilots). While
these led to procurement delays and partial achievement of their objectives, exchanges
and clarifications which contributed to the delays did lead to an increased understanding
of the technical issues by the implementing agencies and other stakeholders and,
ultimately, their ownership of the process and the results.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating reflects: (i) relevance of the PDO to the priority needs of the sector, (ii) the
moderately satisfactory achievement with regard to the PDO; and (iii) the satisfactory
achievement with regard to efficiency in relation to the EIRR and other indicators of
efficiency. Overall, activities under the Project have resulted in improved road conditions
leading to reduced road user charges and improved road safety. 9 This rating represents an
upgrade when compared to the last ISR, reflecting the EIRR, which was not available at
the time, as well as the signing of the OPBM contract by the RS.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project did not collect data on poverty impact and gender analysis was not carried
out. The Project is likely to have contributed to poverty reduction however, through
creation of jobs and improved access to economic opportunities within the project areas
which could be expected to benefit both men and women. The socio-economic cost of
road accidents now established for the two entities should help provide a more rational
basis for discussions on road safety and the benefits of remedial actions.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project enhanced the institutional capacity for road maintenance and the legal and
institutional basis at the State and entity levels. The institutional capacity for addressing
road maintenance has been enhanced in both FBH and RS as a result of experiences
gained in procuring the OPBM and this will deepen as the pilots are implemented and

9
  The rating of the last ISR was moderately satisfactory because at that time the road safety activities in the RS were
yet to be completed and there was uncertainty as to whether the OPBM contract in the RS would be signed before
project closing. The road safety activities were successfully completed and the OPBM signed.


                                                           15
monitored and emerging lessons incorporated into local practice. The threat to this
assessment is that financing of road maintenance may reduce and or become unstable and
thus frustrate full scale adoption of the OPBM which is best employed under a stable and
regular funding scenario. It is noticeable in both Entities that the concern of their MOTC
is now more on developing the motorways. It is important that for this not to be at the
expense of continuing focus in improving the magistral and regional roads which could
demotivate staff of FBHRD and RSRD. Regarding road safety, the road safety Laws
enacted at the State level and the strategies at entity levels have provided a good legal and
institutional basis for addressing road safety issues. In the RS, there is now a Traffic
Safety Agency (TSA) responsible for overall coordination and guidance of road safety
activities. The TSA however has no budget to directly fund road safety activities, such
funds being spread across individual units with road safety responsibilities. This dilutes
the coordinating powers of the TSA. This is an issue that the RS MOTC is reviewing.
The existing road safety unit in FBH benefitted from interaction with and oversight of the
work of the road safety consultants.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

A potential negative impact of the project is that its relative success in contributing to
improving the condition of the magistral and regional road networks of FBH and RS
could convey the impression that not much more needs to be done. This is far from being
the case. A significant portion of these roads still need rehabilitation. Perhaps more
importantly, traffic is growing and periodic maintenance of this network will be required
and for some, this will need to involve improvements to their geometric alignment.
Indeed, the experience of the implementing agencies in successfully carrying out the
Project has positioned them to undertake similar works on the magistral and regional road
networks.

3.6                                   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or
Stakeholder Workshops

This is a core ICR for which a beneficiary survey is not required. The Project design
provided however for the conduct of user surveys in relation to the road safety and
OPBM pilots. Regarding road safety, the surveys in four cities in the FBH indicated that
measures relating to seat belt wearing had limited impact. The reason adduced for this
included police enforcement practice which was regarded as inadequate. On the OPBM,
only in FBH was there implementation and that for only one year. From the user survey
carried out, no clear conclusions could be drawn

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: This risk is rated as moderate.

Potential risk to the PDO is due principally to factors external to the Project such as the
economic and financial crises in the region. This has reduced public expenditure thus
affecting public investment programs and commitments and jeopardizing replication of
the type of interventions carried out under the Project on the rest of the magistral and
regional road network. This negative impact will be moderated however by the expected


                                             16
increased access of the entities to EU resources for the main corridors which could
increase their ability to focus expenditure on the magistral and regional road network
including maintenance. However, EBRD plans to reduce its funding to the road sector
and EIB may shift its future assistance to the development of the motorways. Road safety
improvement actions may be neglected and fragmented. In any case, without good and
well maintained roads, road safety will reduce all else being equal. Maintenance
allocation needs to be maintained and results of the OPBM pilot utilized to optimize the
approach to road maintenance. There is high awareness of the need to prioritize road
maintenance. The main constraint is inadequate financing.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Project was technically well prepared, focused on priority needs of the sector as
reflected by consensus emerging on the results of ongoing studies and enjoyed good
support from the government. Its design also built on the experience from the then
ongoing RMSP. The deficiencies in documentation in the PAD, while contributing some
delays during implementation did not in the end adversely affect the project outcome. As
mentioned earlier, one of the outcome indicators had some element of complexity which
could have been avoided but this did not affect its monitoring during implementation.
The covenant relating to the level of road maintenance expenditure was perhaps too
optimistic and should more correctly have been an indicator with set targets. This said,
even as a covenant, a decision to waive it could have been taken during implementation
as part of one of the project restructuring carried out.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was well supervised. The frequency of missions overall was appropriate after
the initial hiatus after project approval. Most of the missions included field visits
notwithstanding their logistical complexity. Frequency of inputs from safeguards
specialists was adequate given that the Project contained no major environmental or
social safeguards issues. The Task Team Leader from Washington was well supported by
experienced operational and fiduciary staff based in the Country Office, and related well
with counterparts. There was no road safety expert (Bank or consultant) on the Bank
project team to provide technical oversight in this area. This would have been helpful
given that the Project included a relatively complex road safety component. The team
was quick in confirming the adequacy of the quality of works in the RS through field
inspections when the Minister for Communication and Transport expressed concern. The
mid-term review was comprehensive and covered the main pressing issues. The aide
memoires and ISR were detailed and realistic and management guidance sought as
appropriate. The two restructuring carried out reflected good project management


                                           17
practice and helped in the achievement of key project objectives. The Bank’s project
team held discussions with representatives of EBRD during most of their missions. The
implementing agencies were proactive in coordinating information flow between the IFIs.
The team was firm and constructive in dealing with cost overruns that were experienced
during implementation without compromising achievement of the PDO. This resulted in
the completion of the civil works well before the original project closing date with their
quality assessed as good by the ICR mission. The proactiveness of the Bank team
significantly contributed to the eventual completion of the road safety and OPBM
activities in the RS. The team was also persistent in reminding the road directorates on
the need for timely submission of project reports which finally resulted in more timely
submission of these reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This is as a result of the satisfactory rating for quality at entry and the satisfactory rating
for Project supervision. The diligence and pro-activeness of Bank’s team during
preparation and implementation, good cooperation with other IFIs and flexibility
displayed in responding to changing government request greatly contributed to the
achievement of most of the project objectives.

5.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower represented by the two entities FBH and RS and their respective Ministries
of Transport and Finance, made good faith efforts to comply with the somewhat onerous
covenant relating to the level of increase to be achieved to the allocation to maintenance.
The respective entity ministries of Finance and Transport and Communication were
proactive in helping the implementing agencies resolve implementation issues through
intervention with the Bank team (e.g. in RS regarding potential poor quality of road
works). Initial seeming indifference to the road safety component changed during
implementation to a more supportive role which helped the project to accomplish much
in this area despite initial constraints.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The agencies team made good efforts to ensure the project achieved its objectives, timely
responding to request for information and participating in a prepared way to Bank
missions. The main project activity, road rehabilitation, was completed ahead of schedule
denoting good recovery from the initial delays with the target exceeded arising from
efforts made by the agencies to raise additional financing from EIB and EBRD. However,
significant delays were experienced in the submission of progress reports and project
financial audit. In the RS, project procurement and financial management staff were


                                              18
recruited late which created delay in the launching of some of the procurement leading to
revision of the procurement plan early in project implementation. As indicated above, the
time lost was later recovered. Project reports were generally quite detailed and useful for
project monitoring. The Borrower’s project completion report was adequate and was in
the form of an expanded progress report.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating is principally due to the delays in the implementation of components 2 (road
safety) and 3 (technical assistance) which led to their objectives not being fully achieved
under the Project. Staffing issues delayed implementation in the RS and reallocation to
component 1 (road rehabilitation) principally from component 2 significantly reduced the
scope of the road safety pilot in both FBH and RS. The OPBM activities could also have
been given greater attention during implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

   i.      There are important benefits from ensuring that project sites are visited
           before completing appraisal. The bridges to be rehabilitated should have been
           visited. This could have led to a more correct assessment of needed repairs
           and better estimation of associated costs.
   ii.     It is important to have separate provisions for physical and price
           contingencies in costing of projects as a tool for dealing with cost variations
           during implementation.
   iii.    Need for timely review of procurement thresholds. The threshold for ICBs at
           time of appraisal was US$500,000 and still was during the ICR mission. Low
           thresholds for ICB can limit the participation of domestic contractors in
           tenders. It can lead also to increased transaction costs for counterparts and
           contractors arising from using the more onerous bidding criteria for ICB
           instead of those for NCB even when the tenders are eventually won by local
           contractors as happened under the RISP;
   iv.     Programmatic/Repeater projects help to sustain institutional strengthening
           efforts. The road asset management system developed under the Bank
           financed RMSP proved useful in demonstrating the need for further
           investment on the maintenance of the road network and for priorities to be on
           the basis of calculated economic and social benefits. The road directorates in
           both FBH and RS have acquired the ability to use the system in their decision
           making. A follow-on Bank project to the RISP would help to build on
           experiences relating to road safety and the OPBM pilots under RISP;
   v.      Promotional activities/ public campaigns are important components of road
           safety activities. Mentioned by FBHRD, these make people more aware of the
           impact of their actions, why certain actions are promoted by government and
           the need for behavior change within society;
   vi.     Exposure to international good practices beneficial. The study tours and
           attendance of regional workshops and exposure to international consultants



                                            19
           proved useful in building local knowledge. In the RS, they helped to bring
           new perspectives to the Prime Minister’s Office and the Ministry of Finance
           who now see more than before the need to improve road safety and reduce
           maintenance costs; and
   vii.     Relevance of covenants if not implemented. In retrospect the covenant to
           increase annual real expenditures on maintenance by 5 percent was onerous in
           light of the economic downturn. The Bank also did not enforce the
           covenant—in the future it would make sense to find other mechanisms to
           ensure changes in the pattern of expenditure.
   viii.   Baseline indicators need to be established in a timely fashion. Where baseline
           values are to be determined during implementation and then used to set targets
           to be achieved, related activities should be designed to be able to be carried
           out early in implementation. For RISP, some baseline values under the road
           safety component were to be defined under the pilots to be carried out. Delays
           in carrying out the pilot activities meant that no targets could be set.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The implementing agency in the RS had no comments on the draft ICR. The
implementing agency for the FBH had several comments on the draft ICR. The first
related to the need to reflect the comments in the draft ICR relating to documentation of
the PAD and on Bank supervision of the Project in the justification of overall Bank
performance. The second was the wish to have reflected that FBHRD completed all
contracts within initial project closing date due to good project management, that the
Bank team had no adverse comments on the quality of civil work undertaken in the FBH
and of the intention in the FBH to carry out further works using the OPBM approach but
for contract of four years duration. This has been incorporated into the final ICR. A third
comment was that the IFIs did not request the implementing agencies to prepare
consolidated project reports including all financing (EIB, EBRD and WB). This has been
incorporated into the final ICR. A fourth comment related to comment in the draft ICR
relating to the procurement threshold which they took to mean that procurement delays
were not entirely the fault of the implementing agencies. Finally, they considered as
severe rating of the Borrowers Performance as ‘moderately satisfactory’. At the review
meeting, this rating had actually been upgraded to ‘satisfactory’. In addition to these
comments, they provided some minor clarification on the content of Annex 2. The full
comments from FBH are included in Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers

EBRD and EIB provided parallel financing. Their comments were sought on the draft
ICR but none were received.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            20
N/A




      21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Component1: Road Rehabilitation          24.00               22.64           94.33
Component2: Road Safety                   5.00                2.48           49.60
Component3: Technical
                                          1.00                0.00           0.00
Assistance and Capacity Building
            Total Baseline Cost          30.00               25.10           83.67
Physical Contingencies
                                         10% included in above amounts       0.00
Physical Contingencies
                                        10% included in above amounts        0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00                0.00
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                0.00             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00                0.00             .00
     Total Financing Required           30.00               25.10            83.67


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                    Type of Co-      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     financing         (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                     millions)    millions)
Borrower                                          5.00         2.48         49.60
International Development
                                                  25.00       22.64        94.33
Association (IDA)




                                           22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                               PAD estimate       Actual (output)       Actual
                                                                       as % of
        Component                                           EUR        estimate             Remarks
                                km      EUR      Km
                                                           million     based on
                                                                       cost/km
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected roads – FBH
M17 - Gnojnice - Dra?evo                          36.15   2.963          135.0    Completed in 2011
                              28.42      1.700
                                                                                  No variation order.
M5 - Jajce - Jajce jug                            8.90    0.178           94.4    Completed in 2010
                                 5.18   0.356             (0.014)                 Delay due bad weather in
                                                                                  winter. No variation order.
M17 - Ostrožac - Jablanica                       10.20    0.741           95.7    Completed in 2010
1                               11.79   0.813                                     Delayed for summer holiday
                                                                                  season. Municipal works
M4 - Stanić Rijeka -                             14.20    0.792          100.0    Completed in 2009
                                12.50   0.862
Gra?anica                                                                         No contract variation order.
M4 - Gra?anica - Donja                            7.90    1.211                   Completed in 2009
                                 9.50   0.655
Orahovica
M15 - Kami?ak - Klju?                                     From
                                                                                  Completed with national
                                10.00   0.690    10.00    FBHRD
                                                                                  budget
                                                          funds
M15 - Sanski Most 1 -                             5.00    0.457           99.9    Completed in 2009
                                 4.76   0.328
Sanski Most 3                                                                     No variation order.
M5 - Šećerhajin most -                            3.33    0.416           87.6    Completed in 2010
                                 3.33   0.230
Korija                                                                            No variation order
M5 - Pra?a - Renovica                             7.13    0.972                   Completed in 2012 under EIB
                                 7.22   0.498
                                                                                  cr 23924
M17 - Stup 3 – Blažuj                             6.60    0.477           99.8    Completed in 2009
                                                                                  Remedial works done on sub-
                                 6.22   0.429
                                                                                  base before main works. No
                                                                                  variation order.
M17 - Blažuj - Hadžići                            3.95    0.753                   Completed in 2010
                                 9.50   0.701
                                                                                  No variation order.
M17 - Blažuj - Stup 2                                                             Completed from
                                 6.10   0.421     6.10
                                                                                  EIB CR.23942
M5 - Jajce jug - Donji                           21.15                            Plan for 2012 from EIB cr
                                 9.80   0.676
Vakuf 1                                                                           23942
M4.2 - Grahovo - Skokovi                         11.25    1.265                   Completed in 2011 from EIB
                                 7.80   0.538
                                                                                  cr 23942
M4.2 - Skokovi - Cazin                           16.50    1.755          100.0    Completed in 2011
                                15.98   1.102
                                                                                  No variation order.
                                                           9.761 of
Total                          148.10   9.999   168.36    which WB
                                                            7.808
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected bridges - FBH
M17 - Overpass Blažuj,                   0.300            National                Plan 2012
section Stup 3 – Blažuj, km                               budget                  Rehab financed from national
6+494                                                                             budget

M17 - Overpass on km                                      National
2+100, section Blažuj - Stup            0.350             budget                  Completed in 2009
2
M18 - Bridge over river                                   1.653of     100.0
Bosna and railway Ši?ki                                   which
                                        0.350             0.195 a                 Completed in 2010
Brod – Sarajevo, km
108+400                                                   variation



                                                          23
                               PAD estimate      Actual (output)       Actual
                                                                      as % of
        Component                                         EUR         estimate             Remarks
                               km      EUR       Km
                                                         million      based on
                                                                      cost/km
M18 - Bridge over Brloški                               0.180        99.2
potok, Ši?ki Brod –                    0.150                                     Completed in 2010
Sarajevo, km 34+268
M5 Viaduct Komar Donji                                  Nbf
Vakuf - Travnik, km                    0.300                                     Completed in 2011
49+812
M5 Viaduct Komar Donji                                  Nbf
                                                                                 Planed for 2012
Vakuf – Travnik, km                    0.300
                                                                                 Funding from national budget
50+660
M18 - Overpass across                                   0.239        100.0
railway in Ši?ki Brod, km              0.350                                     Completed in 2010
1+004
Total                              2.100                2.072
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected roads - RS
M1.8 Lepenica - Loncari -                                                        Completed
                               17.49   1.418                 0.863
Blazevac
R462a/463/464 Šamac -                                                            Completed
Grebnice - Obudovac –          25.17   2.339                 1.486
Lon?ari
R480 Derviši – Klašnice                                                          Completed
                                9.23   0.748                 0.542
road
R406 Prijedor (Tukovi) –                        12.00                            Completed
                               12.00   0.576                 0.717
Ljubija road
R448 Podkozara – Čajni?e –                      25.01                            Completed. Addendum issued
                               20.63   1.151                 1.148
Metaljka
                                                30.40                            No interventions from km1 to
                                                                                 4 due bypass to be constructed
                                                                                 in future. Also, 3km through
                               30.40   1.898                 1.575
                                                                                 town of Janja not done as it
M14.1Bijeljina – Šepak                                                           would involve utilities
road                                                                             relocation.
                                                                                 About 70% of works
                                                                                 subcontracted to a losing
                                9.32   0.608                 0.804               bidder who in separate tender
M19.2 Vlasenica – Tišća                                                          is responsible of 340km of
road                                                                             roads including this section.
                                                                                 EBRD funded. Pavement
M15 Kozarska Dubica –          15.60   0.969                 1.872               works limited to 8.6 km of the
Prijedor road                                                                    section.
                                                                                 EBRD funded. No drainage
                                                                                 works included though much
                                8.13   0.500                 1,431
M20 Kopa?i – Ustipra?a                                                           needed. Planned pavement
road                                                                             works also seen as limited.
                                                                                 EBRD funded. Significant
                                                                                 length of guardrails needed
                               23.81   1.500                 3.375
                                                                                 along riverside but not
M15 Prijedor - Koprivna                                                          included in contract.
Total                                  11.707           13.813
Component 2: Road safety (FBH)
Create a results focus for             0.906            0.787                    Completed
road safety
Test pilot measures in high-           0.280                                     Scope reduced due budget
risk sections                                                                    constraint.
Total                                  1.620



                                                        24
                               PAD estimate   Actual (output)    Actual
                                                                as % of
       Component                                       EUR      estimate             Remarks
                               km     EUR     Km
                                                      million   based on
                                                                cost/km
Component 2: Road safety – RS
Creating a results focus for         0.300          1,358                  Completed with delay and
road safety                                                                reduced scope. Road safety
                                                                           Law of RS Gazetted June 21,
                                                                           2011
Test pilot measures in high-                                               Completed with delay and
risk sections                                                              reduced scope.
Component 3: Technical assistance and capacity building - FBH
Introduction of one pilot            10.253                                First year implementation of
OPBM contract                                                              pilot hybrid of 184.66 km.
                                                                           EBRD financing supervision
                                                                           of works. FBH funding of
                                                                           works.
Component 3: Technical assistance and capacity building – RS
Introduction of one pilot
OPBM contract. Engage                                                      Contract signed for a hybrid
supervision consultant for                                                 OPBM.
OPBM
Individual consultant for                                                  Draft bid docs and training of
prepare OPBM contract                                                      staff.




                                                    25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. The appraisal economic analysis was conducted for the rehabilitation of about 354 km of
magistral and regional roads in FBH and RS, which was more than what could be financed (about
240km) under the Credit. The rehabilitation works were aimed at improving (i) the ride quality
leading to lower operating costs, in terms of time and money, for road users; and (ii) to guarantee
structural soundness of the roads for a prolonged period and prevent collapse, leading to lower
life-cycle maintenance costs of the road assets. The evaluation was done using the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs
and provides economic decision criteria for road construction and maintenance activities.

2. The ex-post economic analysis was conducted with the same methodology and model used at
the appraisal economic analysis, considering actual rehabilitation costs and actual annual traffic
growth rates observed over the 2006-2011 period. The appraisal period was defined at 10 years,
which best account for the economic life of the rehabilitation activities under the project and the
“do minimum? scenario. The adopted discount rate was 12 percent and financial costs (market
prices of materials, labor and equipment including taxes) were converted to economic costs, net
of all transfer payments, using a financial to economic costs factor of 0.80.

3. The project road sections and their respective length and width at appraisal are given in Table 1.
Thirteen projects in FBH and ten projects in RS were included on the ex-post economic
evaluation with total length of 303.7 km and an average length of 13.2 km per rehabilitated
section. All roads are two lane Asphalt Concrete roads with carriageway width varying from 5.5
to 11.0 meters.

                        Table 1: Description of Project Road Sections at Appraisal

                              FBH                                                       RS
Road   Road                   Road        Length   Width   Road   Road                       Road        Length   Width
              Section                                                     Section
No     Name                   Type        (km)     (m)     No     Name                       Type        (km)     (m)
                                                                          Lepnica -
                                                                          Loncari -
              Gnojnice -                                                  Bla2evac
F1     M-17   Dracevo         Magistral   28.40     7.2    R1     M1.8    (1)                Magistral   17.49     7.0
              Jajce - Jajce                                               Bijeljina-
F2     M-5    Jug             Magistral    5.20     6.1    R3     M14.l   Sepak              Magistral   30.40     6.0
                                                                          Kozarska
              Ostrozac -                                                  Dubica -
F3     M-17   Jablanica 1     Magistral   11.80     6.1    R4     MI5     Prijedor           Magistral   15.60     6.0
              Granica
              RS/FBH
              (Stanic
              Rijeka) -                                                   Prijedor -
F4     M-4    Gracanica       Magistral   12.50     7.2    R5     M15     Koprivna (I)       Magistral   23.80     6.0
              Gracanica -
              Donja                                                       Vlasenica -
F5     M-4    Orahovica       Magistral    9.50     7.2    R6     M19.2   TiSCa              Magistral    9.30     6.2
              Sanski Most                                                 KopaEi -
              1 - Sanski                                                  UstipraEa
F7     M-15   Most 3          Magistral    4.80     7.2    R7     M20     (1)                Magistral    8.10     6.6
              Sehercehajin                                                Prijedor
              most -                                                      (Tukovi) -
F8     M-5    Korija          Magistral    3.30    11.0    R8     R406    Ljubija (3)        Regional    12.00     5.5




                                                          26
                                     FBH                                                               RS
Road    Road                         Road            Length   Width    Road    Road                         Road        Length     Width
                  Section                                                                Section
No      Name                         Type            (km)     (m)      No      Name                         Type        (km)       (m)
                  Granica
                  RS/FBH                                                                Podkozara -
                  (Praca) -                                                             CajniEe -
F9      M-5       Renovica           Magistral        7.20      6.1    R9      R448     Metaljka            Regional     20.60      5.5
                                                                                        Samac -
                                                                                        Grebnice -
                  Stup3 -                                                               Obudovac -
F10     M-17      Blazuj             Magistral        6.20      7.5    R10     R463     Loncari (1)         Regional     25.10      5.5
                                                                                        DerviSi -
                  Blazuj -                                                              KlaSnice
F11     M-17      Hadzici            Magistral        9.50      7.0    R11     R480     (1)                 Regional      9.20      6.5
                  Jajce Jug -
F13     M-5       Donji Vakuf        Magistral        9.80      6.0
                  Grahovo -
F14     M-4.2     Skokovi            Magistral        7.80      6.1
                  Skokovi -
F15     M-4.2     Cazin              Magistral       16.00      6.6
Sub-
Total                                                132.00     7.0                                                     171.60      6.1
Overall Program                                      303.60     6.6



4. The rehabilitation works typically included pavement rehabilitation, milling of the damaged
pavement and placing 40 or 50 mm Asphalt Concrete surface layer, rehabilitation of drainage
system, repair of all pathways and guardrails on bridges, traffic signalization and road markings.
Table 2 gives the rehabilitation costs estimated at appraisal and the actual costs. On average the
actual costs are 30 percent higher in FHB and 40 percent in RS. The ratio between actual costs
and appraisal costs varies between 0.5 and 2.9.

                                    Table 2: Road Works Costs – Appraisal and Actual

                                 FBH                                                              RS
                       Appraisal     Actual                                           Appraisal        Actual
        Road             (Euro        (Euro                Actual/     Road             (Euro           (Euro           Actual/
        No              million)     million)             Appraisal    No              million)        million)        Appraisal
        F2               0.357        0.700                 2.0        R1               1.134           0.873            0.8
        F3               0.813        1.100                 1.4        R3               1.518           1.159            0.8
        F4               0.862        0.874                 1.0        R4               0.775           1.872            2.4
        F5               0.655        0.337                 0.5        R5               1.200           3.375            2.8
        F7               0.328        0.457                 1.4        R6               0.486           0.804            1.7
        F8               0.230        0.365                 1.6        R7               0.400           1.164            2.9
        F9               0.498        0.598                 1.2        R8               0.461           0.717            1.6
        F10              0.429        0.478                 1.1        R9               0.921           1.148            1.2
        F11              0.701        0.735                 1.0        R10              1.871           1.486            0.8
        F13              0.676        0.791                 1.2        R11              0.598           0.515            0.9
        F14              0.538        0.757                 1.4        Total            9.364          13.112            1.4
        F15                 1.102           1.755             1.6
        Total          8.889                11.882            1.3
        Overall Program                                                                18.253          24.994             1.4




                                                                      27
5. The average rehabilitation cost per km estimated at appraisal was Euro 67,341 per km in FBH
and Euro 54,540 per km in RS. The actual cost per km increased to Euro 121,264 in FBH and
Euro 76,372 in RS. The average actual costs per km of the overall program are 40 percent higher
than the appraisal estimates. Table 3 gives the road works costs per km.

                                         Table 3: Road Works Costs/Km

                          FBH                                                                  RS
Road              Apprais                                        Roa                 Apprais
No.      Appr        al      Actu     Actual        Actual/      d        Apprais       al       Actu     Actual   Actual/
         aisal    (Euro/k      al    (Euro/k        Apprais      No.         al      (Euro/k       al    (Euro/k   Apprais
         (km)        m)      (km)       m)            al                   (km)         m)       (km)       m)       al
F1       28.4      59,859    20.5    143,110          2.4        R1        17.5       64,837     17.5     49,932     0.8
F2        5.2      68,654     4.3    162,892          2.4        R3        30.4       49,934     30.4     38,111     0.8
F3       11.8      68,898     7.0    157,870          2.3        R4        15.6       49,679     15.6    120,000     2.4
F4       12.5      68,960     9.3     94,093          1.4        R5        23.8       50,420     23.8    141,828     2.8
F5        9.5      68,947     3.9     86,167          1.2        R6         9.3       52,258      9.3     86,421     1.7
F7        4.8      68,333     3.5    130,702          1.9        R7         8.1       49,383      8.1    143,660     2.9
F8        3.3      69,697     3.1    119,342          1.7        R8        12.0       38,417     12.0     59,740     1.6
F9        7.2      69,167     7.2     83,056          1.2        R9        20.6       44,709     20.6     55,709     1.2
F10       6.2      69,194     4.1    116,297          1.7        R10       25.2       74,335     25.2     59,029     0.8
F11       9.5      73,789     9.5     77,381          1.0        R11        9.2       64,789      9.2     55,805     0.9
                                                                 Tot
F13       9.8     68,980      9.8    80,760           1.2        al        171.7     54,540      171.7   76,371      1.4
F14       7.8     68,974      5.4    140,157          2.0
F15       16.0    68,875      10.5   167,965          2.4
Total     132.0   67,341      98.0   121,264          1.8
Overall Program                                                            303.7     60,104      269.7   92,682      1.4


6. The appraisal economic evaluation was done based on 2004 traffic data and assumed that the
rehabilitation work would start in 2007. An annual 4.0 percent increase in traffic has been
assumed at appraisal for all vehicle types in the economic analysis. The average actual annual
increase in traffic on the project road during the 2006 to 2011 period was 3.8 percent in FBH and
1.6 percent ion RS. The overall average actual annual traffic increase was 2.8 percent. Table 4
gives the available traffic data from 2004 to 2011 on the project roads.

                                               Table 4: Daily Traffic

                       Road              Average Annual Daily Traffic (vehicles per day)                 Annual
                                                                                                         Growth
         Network       No        2004       2006       2007       2008       2009     2010     2011       (%)
         FBH           F1       6,547      12,800     13,696     14,107     12,265   13,715               1.7%
         FBH           F2       3,596      2,900      3,032      3,264      3,356    3,218                2.6%
         FBH           F3       6,044      6,600      7,062      7,274      7,121    7,477     7,926      3.7%
         FBH           F4       7,479      6,700      6,931      8,910      8,543    8,563     8,539      5.0%
         FBH           F5       6,173      6,700      6,931      8,910      8,543    8,563     8,539      5.0%
         FBH           F7       1,383      3,000      3,000      3,000      2,800    2,549     3,314      2.0%
         FBH           F8       5,091
         FBH           F9       1,407
         FBH           F10      14,924                                               18,146              3.3%
         FBH           F11      9,443                                                          14,162    6.0%
         FBH           F13      2,957       2,900     3,032       3,264     3,356    3,218               2.6%
         FBH           F14      2,739       2,600     2,812       2,844     2,841    2,732               1.2%
         FBH           F15      2,739       2,600     4,303       4,523     4,286    4,097     5,011     9.0%
         FBH Total                                                                                       3.8%




                                                            28
                        Road            Average Annual Daily Traffic (vehicles per day)                  Annual
                                                                                                         Growth
         Network       No       2004       2006         2007    2008      2009    2010      2011           (%)
         RS            R1       5,335                                     4,770                           -2.2%
         RS            R3       7,394                                     7,494                            0.3%
         RS            R4       1,700                                     2,215                            5.4%
         RS            R5       3,451                                     3,550                            0.6%
         RS            R6       1,486                                     1,553                            0.9%
         RS            R7       3,394                                     3,794                            2.3%
         RS            R8       1,365                                     1,214                           -2.3%
         RS            R9        769                                      1,087                            7.2%
         RS            R10      3,852                                     3,818                           -0.2%
         RS            R11      7,013                                     8,588                            4.1%
         RS Total                                                                                         1.6%
         Overall Program                                                                                  2.8%


7.                                       The average roughness of the project roads was 3.9 IRI,
m/km, in 2004, before the rehabilitation works. With the project, the average roughness decreased
by 1.8 IRI, m/km, as expected for rehabilitation works of Asphalt Concrete works. Table 5 gives
the roughness in 2004 and 2011 at the project roads.

                                           Table 5: Road Roughness

                        FBH                                                               RS
Road                Roughness (IRI)         Decrease           Road No.       Roughness (IRI)                 Decrease
No                2004           2011       (IRI)                             2004            2011            (IRI)
F1                 4.5            1.7             2.9          R1                  2.5             1.7            0.8
F2                 3.9            2.5             1.4          R3                  3.1             2.0            1.1
F3                 6.0            2.7             3.3          R4                  3.1             1.6            1.5
F4                 3.2            1.7             1.4          R5                  6.1             2.1            4.0
F5                 3.0            1.6             1.4          R6                  4.6             2.3            2.3
F7                 4.7            1.9             2.8          R7                  3.0             1.6            1.4
F8                 3.7            1.9             1.8          R8                  4.3             2.0            2.3
F9                 4.3            4.0             0.4          R9                  4.8             2.5            2.3
F10                4.3                                         R10                 3.1             1.8            1.3
F11                4.3            2.1             2.2          R11                 3.5             1.9            1.6
F13                3.8                                         Total               3.8             2.0            1.9
F14               3.0            2.4              0.6
F15               3.1            2.3              0.9
Total             4.0            2.3              1.7
Overall Program                                                                    3.9             2.1            1.8


8. The ex-post economic analysis adopts the actual rehabilitation costs per km and the actual
annual traffic increase observed from 2006 to 2011 per project road. All other assumptions
adopted at appraisal remain the same at the ex-post analysis. The ex-post economic analysis
shows that the actual rehabilitation costs per km reduced the Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) of most project roads, with only four roads yielding an ex-post EIRR higher than the
appraisal estimate due to the higher observed annual traffic increase. The overall ex-post EIRR
of the project is 59 percent, compared to the 86 percent EIRR estimated at appraisal. Despite the
30 percent decrease in the overall project EIRR, the project still has a robust economic
justification, as expected for rehabilitation of pavements on high traffic roads, confirming the
suitability of the project. Table 6 gives the ex-post economic evaluation summary.




                                                           29
                                Table 6: Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Summary

                              FBH                                              RS
                  Appraisal         Ex-Post                        Appraisal        Ex-Post
Road               EIRR              EIRR     Ex-Post/     Road     EIRR             EIRR     Ex-Post/
No                  (%)               (%)     Appraisal    No        (%)              (%)     Appraisal
F2                  50%               31%       0.6        R3       112%             129%       1.2
F3                 191%              103%       0.5        R4        25%              10%       0.4
F4                 125%              106%       0.9        R5       128%              62%       0.5
F5                 110%               99%       0.9        R6        25%              17%       0.7
F7                  38%               23%       0.6        R7        33%              14%       0.4
F8                  48%               34%       0.7        R8        44%              34%       0.8
F9                  36%               31%       0.9        R9        29%              23%       0.8
F10                258%              182%       0.7        R10       42%              46%       1.1
F11                153%              150%       1.0        R11      146%             159%       1.1
F13                 86%               79%       0.9        Total     72%             53%        0.7
F14                 81%              52%         0.6
F15                 32%              16%         0.5
Total              100%              67%         0.7
Overall Program                                                      86%             59%         0.7




                                                          30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                           Title              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
                                                                     Highway
Jacques Bure               Task Team Leader                  ECSSD
                                                                     engineering
Richard Martin Humphreys   Program Team Leader               ECSSD   Oversight
Bernard Baratz             Consultant Specialist             EASCS   Environment
Danielle Malek             Senior Counsel                    LEGEC   Legal
Elena Y. Chesheva          Operations Officer                SASDT   Operations
Lorraine McCann Kosinski   Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Nicholay Chistyakov        Senior Finance Officer            LOAFC
Nikola Kerleta             Procurement Specialist            ECSO2 Procurement
                           Sr. Financial Management                Financial
Olav Rex Christensen                                         ECSPS
                           Specialist                              Management
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov      Procurement Specialist            ECSPS Procurement
                                                                   Social
Radhika Srinivasan         Senior Social Scientist           OPCFC
                                                                   Development
Senad Sacic                Team Assistant                    ECCBA
Vesna Francic              Operations Officer                ECSSD Operations
Ziad Nakat                 Transport Specialist              ECSSD Transportation
Ahmet Gokce                Consultant                        ECSO2 Procurement
Henry G. R. Kerali         Sector Manager                    ECSS5 Sector Manager
Sanjay N. Vani             Lead Financial Management Spec    OPCFM Finance
Mark Walker                Chief Counsel                     LEGES Legal
Supervision/ICR
Vesna Francic              Senior Operations Officer         ECSS6 Operations
Jacques Bure               Senior Highway Engineer           ECSSD TTL until 11/23/09
Richard Martin Humphreys   Program Team Leader               AFTTR Oversight
Esma Kreso                 Environmental Specialist          ECSS3 Environment
Lamija Marijanovic         Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3 Finance
Maria Carolina Monsalve    Senior Transport Economist        ECSS5 TTL from 11/24/09
Jung Eun Oh                Transport Economist               ECSS5 Transport Specialist
                                                                   Social
Chukwudi H. Okafor         Senior Social Development Spec    ECSS4
                                                                   Development
                                                                   Social
Helen Z. Shahriari         Senior Social Scientist           AFTCS
                                                                   Development
Nikola Kerleta             Procurement Specialist            ECSO2 Procurement
Senad Sacic                Team Assistant                    ECCBA
Henry G. R. Kerali         Sector Manager                    ECSS5 Sector Manager
Juan Gaviria               Sector Manager                    ECSS5 Sector Manager
Sara Gonzalez Flavell      Senior Counsel                    LEGES Legal
Baher-El-Hefnawi           Program Team Leader               ECSS5 Oversight
Naima Hasci                Senior Social Scientist           ECSS4 Social



                                            31
                                                                  Development
Jean-Marie Braun          Consultant                        EASVS Highway Engineer
Coral Bird                Program Assistant                 ECSSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                           4.58                        22.92
FY07                           31.15                       151.97
FY08                           17.47                       78.84
Total:                         53.20                       253.73
Supervision/ICR
FY08                           0.18                        00.13
FY09                           15.85                       92.51
FY10                           20.83                       92.94
FY11                           23.99                       87.44
FY12                           15.22                       61.49
Total:                         76.07                       334.51




                                         32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                     34
Annex 7. Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR 10

1. Introduction

Background. The Project builds on the results of the Road Management and Safety Project
(RMSP), which was closed in June 2007. The RMSP supported institutional and sectoral reform,
domestic contracting industry development, a road and bridge database for the main and regional
roads, and a pilot project to improve road safety that financed advocacy campaigns and road
safety equipment. The successful implementation of the RMSP, particularly the network analysis
that objectively prioritized network rehabilitation needs, led EIB and EBRD to contribute
significant parallel financing to the Project as indicated in Table 1 below.


                                                        Table 1:
    Source of financing                RS mil.       FBH mil.         Total           Planned road
                                       EUR           EUR              (EUR            rehabilitation (km) &
                                                                      Million)        bridge rehabilitation (No.)
                                                                                      FBH           RS
    Own funds                                5.70             2.44           8.14        150 + 15             206
    WB loan * (equivalent 8.20               8.48             8.48          16.96         bridges
    mill SDR)
    EIB loan                               40.00            50.00           90.00               581                 505
    EBRD loan                              30.00            45.00           75.00               460                 394
    TOTAL                                  84.18           105.92                                                 1,105
* Source: exchange rate Central Bank of BH on 22.05.2008: (i) 1 SDR=1. 62798 US$; (ii) 1 US$= 1. 24156 BAM and
(iii) 1 EUR= 1. 95583 BAM


Financing Agreement. This was signed between BIH and IDA on 22nd May 2008. The Loan
became effective on 22 October, 2008. The closing date for the project was initially December 30,
2011 but later extended to June 30, 2012. Under Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement, 8.20
million SDR (12.50 mill US$ equivalent) were on-lent to the FBIH and JP Ceste FBIH to carry
out Part A and C of the Project. Under Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement 8.20
million SDR (12.50 mill US$ equivalent) are on-lent to RS and JP RSP to carry out Part B and C
of the Project. The breakdowns of the credit amount between different activities were as shown in
Table 2 below.


                                      Table 2: Initial allocation of funds 11
                                                      Amount of financing Allocated                    Percentage of
              Category                                       expressed in                             expenditures to
                                                          SDR                     EUR                   be financed
  Federation of BH
  1) Works for Part 1A of the Project                  6,200,000.00            6,412,000.00                 80%
  2) Goods, works and consultants                      1,600,000.00            1,655,000.00                100%
     services for Part 1B of the Project

10
   The Report was submitted in the format of the Project’s Progress Report. The text of this annex excludes those which
were not relevant to a Borrower’s Report. This annex has been reviewed and accepted by the FBHRD and RSRD.
11
   Reallocation of funds entailing project restructuring took place during implementation as detailed later in this annex.


                                                            35
 3) Consultant services for Part 1C of       400,000.00          413,000.00          100%
    the Project
 TOTAL                                      8,200,000.00       8,480,000.00
 Republic Srpska
 1) Works for Part 2A of the Project        6,200,000.00       6,412,000.00           80%
 2) Goods, works and consultants            1,600,000.00       1,655,000.00          100%
    services for Part 2B of the Project
 3) Consultant services for Part 2C of       400,000.00          413,000.00          100%
    the Project
 TOTAL                                         8,2000.00       8,480,000.00


Implementation arrangements. These were as follows: in the FBH, by the international projects
unit and in the RS by a Project Implementation Team (PIT) under the Public Company RS Roads
and headed by a Project Manager provided by the Public Company RS Roads. For both FBH and
RS, the arrangements were same as for the implementation of the RMSP with their staff already
involved in similar functions. The international projects unit in FBH and PIT in RS were
responsible for carrying out procurement, loan management and reporting functions in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. They also coordinated project management for the various beneficiaries,
prepared terms of reference, hired consultants, and contracted for services, training, goods, and
civil works as necessary for the implementation of the project and ensured good implementation
of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).


2. Project Development Objectives and Indicators

The Project Development Objectives were to reduce user costs on the priority sections of the
trunk and regional road networks, to improve the institutional framework for road safety, and to
modernize road maintenance practices. Progress towards the attainment of the Project
Development Objective (PDO) was to be assessed through the following priority indicators:
Outcome indicators. (i) Reduce user costs by at least 10 percent on roads rehabilitated under
project; (ii) Establish effective road safety office at RS level and prepare a strategy and action
plan; conduct pilot operations; and (iii) Satisfactory piloting of an output and performance based
maintenance contract.

Intermediate outcome indicators. (a) Component One: Number of kilometers of trunk and
regional roads rehabilitation. (b) Component Two: (i) Percentage of vehicle and driver registries
computerized; (ii) Socio-economist cost of road accidents is established; (iii) Proportion of
vehicles driving at or below speed limits on pilot sections; (iv) Proportion of drivers using safety
belts on pilot sections; and (v) Road safety strategy and action plan completed. (c) Component
Three: (i) One pilot performance-based maintenance contract is to be signed; and (ii) Road user
satisfaction is not measured via road user survey for section maintained under the output-based
road maintenance sections yet.




                                                36
3. Project Implementation, Outputs and Outcomes

3.1 Compliance with Legal Covenants
The Loan had four covenants 12 and the first three covenants have been fully met by both FBH
and RS. Concerning the fourth covenant, requiring the Borrower to ‘increase the resources
available for maintenance works on public roads by five percent (5%) annually in real terms,
starting from the budget for the year 2008, and to use such additional resources for maintenance
of public works’, the outcome was as follows:
Republika Srpska.
This covenant has been met by the RS. This is demonstrated by the fact that RS Roads has raised
funds for road maintenance considerably over the Project period (see table below). Regular
maintenance increased by 95.6 percent over 2007-08, and over the first three quarters of 2010
rose by 8.6 percent compared to the same period in 2009. Cumulatively, the RS Roads exceeded
the target of an annual 5 percent real rise in maintenance expenditures.

                                                                          %           %            %           %
                                                                          change,     change,      change,     change,
Activity    2007        2008         2009        2010         2011        2007-08     2008-09      2009-10     2010-11
Regular     23.1        45.1         45.5        44.6         43.4        95.2        0.9          -2.0        -2.7

Winter      8.2         11.8         11.5        22.8         22.6        43.9        -2.5         98.3        -0.9

Total       31.2        56.9         57.0        67.4         66.0        82.4        0.2          18.2        -2.1

Federation of BH.

The FBH has not being able to achieve this covenant. In JP Ceste FBIH, expenditure on regular
maintenance has not risen over 2007-2011, in part due to the impact of the financial crises on its
revenue sources. The main source of funding for the JP Ceste FBIH is the fuel fee, collected by
the Indirect Tax Administration. The revenues from the fuel fee go to a single account, 65 percent
of which go to FBH, 32 percent to the RS, and remainder to Brcko Administrative District. Out of
this, 4.9 percent of FBH revenues were earmarked to roads, but it was changed to 3.9 percent in
2007. This meant that the total amount of funds earmarked for roads became a function of the
total revenues, and not directly related to the revenue collected from the fuel fee. It became
therefore practically impossible to plan company budgets with the same degree of certainty as
when there was direct allocation of revenue from the fuel fee. 13 This said, during the period 2008

12
   The Financing Agreement for the credit specifies four implementation covenants under Schedule 2, Section 1, B: (i)
The Recipient shall cause the Entities to maintain the FRD and the RSRD, as the case may be, at all times during
Project implementation, with terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff
in adequate terms; (ii) Recipient shall cause the Entities, through the FRD and RSRD, as the case may be: (a) to take all
measures necessary to perform their respective obligations under the FM Manuals and the EMP in a timely manner and
in accordance with their respective terms, and apply and implement, as the case may be, the actions, criteria, policies,
procedures, and arrangements therein set forth; and (b) not amend or wave, or permit to be amended ot waived the FM
Manuals or the EMP or any provisions of any one thereof, except with the prior written approval of the Association;
(iii) The Recipient shall cause the Entities to ensure that no change is made to the Priority Program of Rehabilitation
Works, except with the prior written approval of the Association; and (iv) The Recipient shall cause the Entities, during
implementation of the Project, to increase the resources available for maintenance works on public roads by five
percent (5%) annually in real terms, starting from the budget for the year 2008, and to use such additional resources for
maintenance of public works.
13
   Aide Memorie, March 3-8, 2011.


                                                          37
– 2010, road rehabilitation works were carried out on over 900 km of main road network with
financing by the IFI’s and this significantly improved the overall condition of roads. These works
included periodic maintenance, pavement repairs and traffic signalization (horizontal and
vertical) as well as road equipment, the most expensive items within road maintenance costs. All
previously mentioned activities are regular part of road rehabilitation projects and this accounted
for the lower increase in the nominal expenditures on road maintenance costs on annual basis.

The table below shows the nominal expenditures on road maintenance costs over the Project
period. It indicates a ‘’slight’’ increase in routine maintenance expenditures and significant
decrease in periodic maintenance expenditures. From the last column of the table below however,
it will be seen that the budget plan for 2012 will see an increase of 5.35 percent in the total
allocation for both routine and periodic maintenance.
Table 3. FBH - Road maintenance expenditures on main road network 2007/20011 (BAM)
Description    Actual       Actual      Index     Actual        Index     Actual      Index      Actual      Index     Plan
                2007         2008        4/3       2009          6/4       2010        8/6        2011        10/8     2012
     2           3            4           5         6             7         8           9          10          11
Routine                                                                                                                    34
maintenance   30,994,609   32,993,487   106.44   33,573,331     101.75   32,857,150    97.86    32,219,742    98.06   million



Periodic      12,841,267   14,298,295   111.35    4,563,528      31.92    4,713,624   103..29    6.113.216   129.69      6.35
maintenance                                                                                                           million
              43,835,876   47,291,782   107.88   38,136,859      80.64   37,570,774    98.52    38,332,958   102.02    40.35
                                                                                                                      million


3.2                                              Implementation of Components - Federation of BH

Component 1: Rehabilitation of about 148 km selected sections of main roads and 7 bridges.
The road sections rehabilitated under this component were distributed throughout the FBIH,
selected on the basis of economic and other social benefits and were aimed at clearing the
backlog of road maintenance. The works typically comprised pavement strengthening with
asphalt overlays, shoulder stabilization, culvert and ditch rehabilitation, repair of existing or
installation of new guard rails, bridge rehabilitation, minor structures repair, road marking and
signing including traffic calming and safety measures within localities. Design and supervision of
the road rehabilitation works were carried out from funds provided by EIB and FBIH. The
sections and bridges rehabilitated under the Project were the same as indicated in the PAD (p45,
Tables 4.2 and 4.3). However, due to cost overruns, only ten of the fifteen road sections of total
length 112.73 km and three bridges were able to be funded from the Loan. The following
remaining road sections and bridges were rehabilitated using EIB and FBIH own funds:

FBH own funds. Road sections - (i) Road M-17 section: Stup 3 – Blažuj, (ii) Road M-5 Donji
Vakuf - Travnik ,Viaduct Komar, km 49+812, section Jajce – Travnik –Lašva. Bridges: (i) Road
M-17 Overpass on km 2+100, section Blažuj-Stup 2; (ii) Overpass in Blažuj chainage km 6+494,
(Estimated cost: EUR 0.330 million); and Road M-5 Donji Vakuf – Travnik, Viaduct Komar
chainage km 50+660, (Estimated cost: EUR0.320 million).

EIB funds. Road sections: (i) Road M-4.2 section: Grahovo – Skokovi, km 21+500 – km 32+750,
l=11.25 km (Contract value: 1,480,264.67 KM); (ii) Road M-5 section: Pra?a – Hrenovica, km
46+270 - km 53+400, l=7.2 km (Contract value: EUR 0.51 million); (iii) Road M-5, section: Jajce
jug – Donji Vakuf 1, l=9.5 km (Contract value: EUR 1.11 million); and M17 Blazej-Stup 2.




                                                           38
For most of the roads and bridge rehabilitation works, delays were experienced due to: (i)
postponed work commencement; (ii) inadequate engagement of the Contractor after starting
work; and (iii) mistakes in the design. Time extensions were approved for the Contractors when
submitted.

Component 2: Road Safety. The objective of this component was to assist in improving road
safety in BiH through a coordinated and integrated package of cost-effective, multi-sector road
safety interventions designed on the basis of international best practice. First, focusing on
building the appropriate institutional framework and institutional capacity; second, the
implementation of policies and techniques directly in the field, through pilot operations in high-
risk areas. The consultant to assist with this component was contracted on 29 November 2010 and
commenced its assignment on 6 December 2010 with a duration of 12 months.

The availability of supporting information such as comprehensive and accurate statistics on traffic
accidents was a very serious problem in undertaking the assignment. The existing data system
produced data that was either incomplete or inaccurate. The Consultant also drew attention to the
insufficiency of funds under the contract allocated for the implementation of the pilot road safety
project. FBHRD made efforts to obtain additional funds from WB sources (grants) or other
sources of financing but these were unsuccessful. But it is important to point out that all the
implemented road rehabilitation interventions had included road safety actions. Before
preparation of detailed design road safety inspection checklist had to be prepared in order to
include necessary interventions in the detailed design for road rehabilitation.

The following main stakeholders have been involved in the road safety project: (i) JP Ceste FBIH
and Road Directorates at Cantonal level (responsible for roads and road conditions); (ii) Traffic
Police both at Federal and Cantonal level (responsible for traffic safety and accident reporting);
(iii) Ministries (Ministry of Transportation and Communication, Internal Affairs, Health and
Education) on Federal and Cantonal level; (iv) Ministry of Transportation and Communications at
State level; (v) Hospitals and Health organizations (responsible for post-accident treatment); (vi)
Rescue centers and Fire brigade (responsible for ambulance service and extinguishing fires); (vii)
Automobile clubs (working among others with information issues like public traffic safety
awareness campaigns); (viii) Insurance companies and their umbrella Insurance Association; (ix)
Protection Fund (involved in payouts to 3rd parties injured by uninsured drivers); (x) Driving
schools (responsible for driver education and training); (xi) Licensed Vehicle testing garages and
their organization.

The Consultant, through workshops and seminars, has presented and discussed best international
practices in each road safety sector and with help and input of local experts, identified sectors
considered to be most relevant and appropriate for BIH needs and its current stage of road safety
development. The Consultant has held or participated in the following activities: 7 Seminars, 19
Workshops, 2 training courses, 2 classes at University in Faculty of Transport and
Communication. In total, more than 600 persons have participated in these seminars, workshops
and training and, at the university classes were held attended by over 100 students. 14

The following are the most important activities carried out by Consultant during implementation
and their outputs:

1. Strengthening the Institutional Framework for Road Safety. Existing management and
coordination structures for road safety in FBIH have been examined and found to be either

14
     The Borrower’s Report provided detailed information on these activities.


                                                            39
nonexistent or totally ineffective. Recommendations have been made on how management,
coordination and funding of road safety can be improved in FBIH.

2. Selection, planning and assisting implementation of road safety measures in pilot area. JP
Ceste FBIH staff and consulting engineers’ staff have been trained in methods for Black Spot
identification, analyses and treatment and Comprehensive Guidelines for Black Spot identification
and treatment have also been developed. Five Black Spots were identified and mitigation
measures for these spots developed. Surveys were also carried out on the “before? situation in
terms of speed and traffic behavior at these locations so that the effects of the remedial action
could be evaluated once the mitigation measures implemented.

3. Review/upgrade existing road crash database and access to licensing/vehicle registration
database. The existing accident database was reviewed and discussions (followed by a
workshop) held with road safety department of JP Ceste FBIH, other key stakeholders and State
MoTC about the problems identified with the database. The existing accident database system is
managed by Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. The problems with existing data base have been
divided into four groups: organizational problems, database problems, problems with the
accident summary form and general problems. The existing police database is not providing the
information needed for road safety remedial work or even to providing Ministries of Internal
Affairs with administrative statistics on death and injures. Because of the many problems
detected in the existing database and in order to have an internationally high quality base a new
accident crash database system, the Consultant recommended a procurement of a new accident
crash database system which should be used to identify trends, hazardous locations etc. in order
to develop countermeasures. The advantage with buying a new system will be that many of the
detected database problems will be automatically solved. A new system would also include a
powerful analysis module. However organizational problems will not be solved simply by
buying a new data base and it has been recommended that multi-sectoral working group be
formed in order to make improvements in this area. The police need to be an integrated partner in
the discussion about improving or updating the database.

To implement the Action Plan for Road Safety (2011-2020), Eur320,000 has been allocated by
FBIH to create a new database system for road accidents which would be linked to other data
bases related to road safety. This will allow the MoTC and cantons to collect, store, analyze and
disclose road safety data in an effective way. The responsible authorities are the Ministry of
Internal affairs (federal and Cantonal) and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of
BIH. The first activity is the updating of the existing database by the Ministry of Internal Affairs
who is responsible for recording accidents with possible co-financing of other stakeholders. JP
Ceste BIH in its budget for 2012 of JP Ceste FBIH has not provided co-financing for this
purpose, due to the budget constraints.

4. Establishing socio-economic costs of road accidents. A suitable methodology for assessing socio
economic costs of road accidents in FBIH has been developed. Cost has been derived for a single
accident with dead, seriously injured and slightly injured persons to be used in cost estimation and
justification of Road Safety actions. The total annual losses to the FBIH economy were estimated. It
is estimated that FBiH is now losing over KM 780 million each year (Euro 400 million) per
year, and based on 2010 these annual losses amount to around 5.8% of the annual Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) of FBiH.

5. Provide support in development of intermediate indicators of road safety performance on
the network and performance monitoring. The Consultant carried out initial surveys of the main



                                                40
indicators speed and seat-belt use both in Sarajevo and Mostar and in rural areas and later more
comprehensive “before? and after surveys were undertaken of seat belt use in Tuzla, Mostar,
Sarajevo and Bihac. Local academics /researchers (7) and some students were selected and
trained to do indicator surveys: the first surveys were concentrated on seat-belt use before and
after a seat-belt campaign. In order to get a more complete picture of the level of road safety and
to be able to focus on the most effective countermeasures, the following Safety Performance
Indicators were suggested for FBiH apart from the obvious indicators of the number of fatalities,
injuries and accidents: (i) Daytime wearing rates of seat belts: in front seats (passenger cars +
vans under 3.5 tons), in rear seats (passenger cars + vans under 3.5 tons), by children under 12
years old (restraint systems use in passenger cars) and in front seats (Heavy Goods Vehicles +
coaches above 3.5 tons); (ii) percentage exceeding the speed limit on urban and rural roads; (iii)
The number and percentage of killed and severely injured car drivers or motorcycle riders that
were impaired by alcohol or drug above the permitted level according to the law; (iv) number
and percentage of all fatal and severe accidents that are alcohol or drug related, i.e. one of the
active road users in the accident were impaired by alcohol or drugs above the permitted level
according to the law; (v) reduction in the number of killed and severely injured in treated black
spots; (vi) total number of killed and injured on different road types on each road authorities’
network; (vii) percentage of pedestrians among the fatalities and severely injured in road traffic
accidents; (viii) daytime usage rates of safety helmet by cyclists, moped riders and motorcyclists.
It was also recommended to complement these with a speed index be produced and regularly
updated using data from the traffic counter on FBIH network and Police speed cameras in urban
areas. Police data on the number of traffic violations were also suggested to be used as
complementary information in order to follow the development of the indicators with
information related to the indicators available in the accident database used.

6. Proposals on publicity programs and research development. A working group of key
stakeholders (BIHAMK Automobile Association, insurance companies, police expert group, JP
Ceste FBIH, insurance companies and Ministry of Transport) were established to implement a
national road safety campaign on seatbelt wearing during the autumn 2011. Advices were
provided to BIHAMK on a nationwide seatbelt campaign and films from overseas were acquired
and broadcasted with Bosnian voiceovers. Four films on to promote use of seatbelts were
received free of charge (3 from Georgia and 1 from Australia) and broadcasted on three TV
channels in BIH in December 2011. JP Ceste FBIH procured 5 films (2 speeding and 3 seatbelt)
from Australia and paid royalty fees for one year broadcasting in BIH. Broadcasting of these
films will started in early 2012. In association with Automobile Association BIHAMK, around
1000 CDs of these films will be distributed to driving schools and large fleet operators for use in
driver training and re training courses, markedly increasing the knowledge and awareness of
seatbelt and speeding issues among existing and future drivers.

7. Assistance in the development of road safety intervention plans and comprehensive result-
focused entity strategy. The consultant’s various experts reviewed activities in each sector and,
in consultation with local experts, identified the deficiencies and the improvements needed.
These recommendations were consolidated into the prepared Action Plan for FBIH. A short
outline Entity level Strategy 2011-2020 was also prepared for FBIH. This Strategy provides the
vision and direction for FBIH stakeholders and the framework for a FBIH specific
comprehensive Road Safety Action Plan until a more comprehensive State wide Strategy can be
developed. The parallel project in Republica Srpska is expected to also produce an Entity level
Strategy and a comprehensive Action Plan. These two Entity level Action Plans and the interim
Strategies will then form the basis for consolidated Strategy and Action plans on the State level.
The developed Strategic Action Plan 2011-2020 has the five pillars of the UN Decade of Action
recommendations: (i) Pillar 1: Safety Management - to strengthen Institutional capacity to


                                                41
further Road safety efforts; (ii) Pillar 2: Safer roads and Mobility - to improve the safety of road
networks for the benefit of all road users, especially the most vulnerable: Pedestrians, cyclists
and motor cyclists; (iii) Pillar 3: Safer Vehicles – to improve vehicle safety by encouraging
harmonization of relevant global standards and mechanisms in order to accelerate the uptake of
new technologies that have an impact on safety; (iv) Pillar 4 : Safer Road Users - develop
comprehensive programs to improve road user behavior; and (v) Pillar 5 : Post Crash Response
- promote the improvement of health and other systems to provide appropriate emergency
treatment and longer term rehabilitation for crash victims. The Road Safety Action Plan has been
designed around these 5 pillars and provides more detailed information on the specific
interventions, actions and capacity building required in FBIH to deliver the casualty reductions
required and to introduce best international practices.
Before project implementation data regarding driver license holders were kept in digital registers.
The practical handling and supervision of the vehicle inspection system up to 2000 was a task for
the police who still handle the registration of vehicles in digital registers. In 2000 federal Ministry
of Transport and Communications delegate vehicle inspection system to IPI-Institut za privredni
inžinjering Zenica as expert institution. IPI has also developed a unique IT system binding
together all inspection stations and introduced identification of all inspected vehicles by video
cameras. In 2011 there is in FBH 157 authorized inspection stations, whereof 55% is operated by
individual owners, and these decentralized organizations require a quite comprehensive
supervision system. The regular supervision by IPI is financed by a levy of 8% of the inspection
fees, VAT deducted. The Consultant recommend that administrative data on activities and actors
should be kept in digital registers and data bases not only concerning license holders, but also
examiners, driving schools, certified supervisors.
The contract of the consultant was extended to June 30th 2012 to allow them be able to harmonize
the outcomes in the FBH with road safety legislative changes and activities in the RS when
completed. The extension was at no additional cost.
Component 3: Technical assistance and capacity building in FBH. Procurement for works for
this approach of undertaking routine maintenance on pilot region was done based on local
regulation (Law on Public Procurement). Hercegbosna Canton (Canton 10) with 345.20 km of
main roads was selected as the pilot region in FBH. The pilot area is mountainous, with altitudes
in range from 500m up to 1400 m. There are five mountain saddles: Koprivica, Borova Glava,
Plo?a, Mliništa and Privala where the traffic is significantly heavy during the winter and very
often the winter maintenance in the region extends up to 45 days more than the planned period for
winter maintenance. The road conditions on the main roads in this region are almost the same and
is easier to define maintenance criteria for whole network instead partially by road sections. The
selected pilot hybrid OPBM contract covers a total of 184.66 km of roads. The contract with
contractor JP ‘’Ceste? Mostar has a duration of three (3) years and works started at the beginning
of winter season 2010 (15th November, 2010). The output and performance-based maintenance
works as well as supervision services on pilot territories are financed by JP Ceste FBIH.
Perfomance based maintanance contract is 'hybrid' due to the fact that regular maintanace is
combination of previously used clasic method and perfomance based method, but winter
maintenance is completly perfomance based method. Contractor is in charge to regularly collect
data regarding OPBM contract to provide information concerning annual costs per km of
maintenance and review of quality interventions, comparing to traditional contracts. However,
initial analysis by the Road Maintanace and Safety Department of FBHRD were: (i) in the
Contractor's Bids the prices for maintenance works items which will be perfomed by perfomance
based method are increased and maintanace works items which will be perfomed on clasic
method (quantities and unit price) are decreased. This price increase could be Contractor's
intention to protect itself from higher risk which it will bear in this new contract; (ii) The contract



                                                  42
value for routine maintenance and winter maintenace for clasic and perfomanced based method is
given in the table given below.
                                                                    (in BAM)
                                  Routine             Winter               Total
                                maintenance       maintenance
         Contract 2009/10        2.923.497           2.120.103           5.043.600
         (standard method)
         Contract 2010/11        2.891.862           2.236.645           5.128.507
         ( hybrid)
         Contract 2011/12        2.848.624           2.279.375           5.127.999

The economic benefit and savings for FBHRD is not clear from these findings. It is also difficult
to evaluate what could be done to have lower bid prices for maintanance due to the limited
number of the bids. Beside economic benefits, the quality of the maintenance works, maintaing of
the current road conditions or their improvement and road safety are priorities of JP Ceste FBIH.
In the last two years using new type of the maintenance contract, based on the supervision reports
and upon examination on the site, it is noted that road conditions have improved. Advantages of a
new maintenance contract (hybrid) are the following: (i) Procurment of the salt and spreading
material for winter maintenance is Contractor's obligation, so saving in the procurment of the salt
is approx 0,35-0,40 mill.BAM. The quantity for procurment of the salt in the classic method was
approx.2100 t per anum; (ii) Supervision is monitoring road conditions which are base for
payments to the Contractor but the Contractor make decision about organization for interventions
on the roads; (iii) grass mowing and removal of branches include the whole road side, not only 2
m as it was the case in the clasic method, so better visibility is reached. Disadvantage of the
perfomance based maintenance is that due to the less influence of the Supervisor in making
decision for carring out the works, the Contractor tend to perform as soon as possible items which
bring better earnings for Contractor, and not taking into consideration the needs and traffic safety
on the road. Some changes in the perfomanced based maintenance contracts should be included
in the further period such as: (i) Bill of quantity for winter maintenance should be divided in fixed
costs of the winter maintenance and actual work costs on the snow and ice removal. Actual Work
costs on the snow and ice removal depends of the winter season, precipitations, temperature. (ii)
Changes in routine maintennace works like roadway cleaning, removing spreading material from
shoulders and kerbs, settling the shoulders and kerbs etc. after winter period in order to improve
road safety. (iii) limtation in some extent the Contractor's independence in setting up priority
works and sequence for carring out the maintanace works. (iv) Enforchment of the penalities for
the Contractor in case of omissions and non fulfillment of the contract obligations. The practice
has shown that penalities are small and could not be considered as severe punishment for the
Contractor.

The limited experience of the FBHRD with OPBM so far would seem to confirm that benefits of
OPBM contracts are obtained when they are of long duration (five or more than five years).

Perfomance based contracts-survey carried out in July 2012 and several important conclusions
can be drawn looking at the results of the survey:
  • That 55% of respondents were familiar with the methods applied, which is a satisfactory result
    considering that the introduction of new method has not been announced through mass media
  • That 78% of respondents confirmed significant or partial improvement over the conventional
    method of maintaining
  • 59% of respondents noticed that the works are executed well and with less delay, and that the
    works are carried out with minimal disruption of traffic (76%)



                                                 43
     • 90% of all respondents confirmed that the condition of main roads is better than it was before
       using the new method of road maintenance
     • 81% of respondents said that the winter service works are performed on time or with a small
       delay

3.3 Implementation of Components - Republic Srpska
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected road sections. According to the original project
description, civil works to be implemented under component 1 included pavement strengthening
with asphalt concrete wearing and leveling courses, shoulder stabilization, culvert and ditch
cleaning and rehabilitation, repair of existing or installation of new guard rails, bridge
rehabilitation, minor structures repair, road marking and signing including traffic calming and
safety measure within localities. For all road sections designers received terms of reference
(TOR) which requested them to provide designs under two scenarios for each road: (i) a scenario
including all items needed for full rehabilitation, and (ii) a scenario taking into account budget
constraints. Fearing that bids from contractors would exceed the budget, the designers were
requested by RS Roads to propose works not exceeding 80 percent of the cost estimated in the
project appraisal document (PAD). Unfortunately, the second scenario with budget constraints
was the one applied by the designers for all the ten road sections.
During the May 2010 World Bank mission, the team conducted a global review of the designs on
the basis of full rehabilitation scenario and concluded that the design proposals did not comply
with a full rehabilitation as agreed at appraisal with cost reductions achieved by the designers
through cancelling or diminishing thickness of pavement layers and implementing less guardrails,
if any; cancellation of overlays except for badly deteriorated sections and instead providing only
for treatment of potholes and cracks; replacing only damaged guardrails were replaced; drainage
interventions were excluded—other than cleaning of ditches; and excluded rehabilitation of
bridges along the road sections. As a result, the contracts that had been signed did not include all
the works under road rehabilitation as detailed in the PAD.
On the other hand, for the road sections where works had been completed, the Bank team found
that: (i) water remains on the pavement, damaging the pavement structure, as drainage had not
been properly considered or addressed; (ii) various obstacles along the roads were not correctly
protected by guardrails and additional guardrails were needed; (iii) horizontal markings were
fading quickly, which could be due to inappropriate technical specification of the paint or paint
not being applied in accordance with technical specifications; and (iv) road surface looked
slippery and it was recommended that friction coefficients be assessed for completed sections. In
addition, bus stops had not been rehabilitated, nor had sidewalks, although the latter were not the
responsibility of the RS Roads, but of the municipalities. 15
As remedy, the following actions were undertaken: (i) drainage of underground and superficial
waters has to be properly addressed in all road sections 16 ; (ii) pavement structure has to be
strengthened in order to increase the life period of assets; (iii) additional guardrails have to be
added in order to protect vehicles from obstacles; (iv) traffic calming devices have to be
introduced in town crossings; and (v) bus stops and bridges have to be rehabilitated where needed.
Given the unallocated funds available under component 1, it is expected that these additional
works can be financed from this component.


15
  This required good coordination between RS Roads and municipalities which was not always be achieved.
16
  In BIH, a general problem exists of people encroaching on the draining system, particular using the system for
disposal of household water waste and blocking of water flows. The problems appear in numerous places; they have
been present for a long time and have not been dealt with properly. Restoring proper drainage for both underground and
superficial water should be implemented prior to any road rehabilitation.


                                                         44
Given the above deficiencies, the RS Roads suspended the four ongoing road contracts in June
2010 and revised the designs and bills of quantities (BOQs) to ensure that full rehabilitation
would achieved. By September 2010, all RS road sections included in the Project had been
tendered, contracts signed in December 2010 (??) and works were completed in August 2011
(???). There were concerns as to whether funds available from the Loan would be enough to fully
rehabilitate all road sections included in the project. As a result, additional works were approved
on the completed three road sections only after the tender on the other seven road sections
(launched in September 2010) had been completed and their contract values known. In the event,
these three sections did not have sufficient funds under the Loan to full pay the contractor. The
outstanding amount of about EUR 3.2 million which remained to be paid to the Contractors even
though the works have been completed was sourced from the EBRD.

Component 2: Status of Road Safety. The objective of the component was to create a results
focus for road safety interventions consistent with best international practice. Procurement of this
component started late due to delays in finalizing the terms of reference and reaching agreement
with the Bank on the shortlist for the assignment. The contract was eventually signed on August
2011 for completion by the revised closing project date of June 30, 2012. The contract was
concluded on time with the following tasks completed: (i) supporting the establishment of the
Road Safety Agency; (ii) review of all existing database and propose monitoring indicators,
procedure for collection, storage, and dissemination with interconnectivity between various
databases; (iii) review and propose improvements to the current road safety strategy and Law to
harmonize with best practice and enhance results focus; (iv) establish the socio-economic costs of
road accidents; and (v) after discussion with counterparts, select, plan and assist in
implementation of pilot road safety measures in collaboration with six key stakeholders in the RS
(RSA, MTC, MOI, MHS and local authority/ies) and support the creation of monitoring
framework for these pilot projects.

The above outputs were largely achieved as presented in Attachment 1. It was however not
possible to procure police equipment, or other required equipment, under this component as
planned. Outside of the activities of the project, there was significant progress on moving the road
safety agenda forward: the Road Safety Law on the Republic of Srpska roads was approved by
the RS National Assembly and published in Official Gazette of Republic of Srpska on Jun 21,
2011, No 063 and the Traffic Safety Agency created and its head appointed.

Component 3: Introduction of output and performance - based road maintenance contracts.
This component provided consulting services for the introduction of output and performance-
based road maintenance contracts (OPBM) for routine and winter maintenance. A TA was
engaged for the preparation of bidding documents and workshop on the approach was held for
contractors on March 18, 2008. This workshop was financed from the Bank team’s preparation
budget due to delay in the project becoming effective. Draft bidding documents prepared by the
consultant was for a pilot hybrid OPBM of 184.66 km with a contract commencement date of
November 15, 2010. However, detailed comments provided by the Bank on June 16, 2010
revealed significant flaws in the draft document which led the RSRD to engage a new consultant
(individual) with funding from EBRD to (i) respond to the comments of the Bank and finalize the
draft document; (ii) assist in preparing the terms of reference and bidding documents for the
OPBM supervision consultancy and (iii) provide further training to RSRD staff on OPBM
contracts. The initial one year contract of the consultant was later extended another year to assist
in the oversight of the first year of the OPBM contract.




                                                45
The contract is a hybrid as it consist of the normal "on order" routine summer maintenance and a
performance based element limited to winter maintenance activities. The reason for this approach
is that 60% the pilot network consist of recently rehabilitated road sections which were unlikely
to need routine maintenance (e.g. filing potholes, repairing cracks, etc) and their inclusion in a
‘performance arrangement’ could result in paying for services not required. In addition, the
RSRD was of the view that implementing a full Performance Based Contract for all Routine
Maintenance Services would be too complex to go for in the first instance. A Hybrid would be
more manageable for RSRD, understandable and attractive for the contractors, and would also
stand more of a chance of success, in both attracting local contractors to bid and also in its
operation and management. 17

A number of changes were made to the deliverables contained in the original TOR for the
individual as a result of adopting the hybrid approach. The key revision was to change the task
‘preparation of bidding documents’ to training RSRD staff to carry out the supervision and
monitoring of the Pilot Contract’. It was decided to make this change for a number of reasons.
First the hybrid form of contract meant any supervising consultant would only be required during
the winter period. Because of this it was felt that employing a Supervisory Consultant would not
be good value for money for RSRD. Secondly, and more importantly, it was felt that it would be
more beneficial to RSRD if its own supervisory staff were trained to undertake the supervision
especially given that they would be carrying out the supervision of the routine and summer
maintenance of this contract in any event. This training was provided before which discussions
were held with the RSRD staff to be trained to establish their current maintenance practices to
allow the procedures proposed in the training to fit, as much as possible, with those current
practices. To date, training conducted has consisted of a workshop with these staff into the
principles behind performance based maintenance and also what they should do when supervising
the contractor. The consultant will provide additional guidance to the supervisors throughout the
first winter period of the contract. The OPBM Contract will be procured according t the Public
Procurement Law of BiH.

The project outcome indicator for this component is to complete a satisfactory pilot of an
OPBRMC. Intermediate outcome indicators include: (i) Selection of contractor and contract is
implemented; (ii) measurement of annual costs per km for maintenance; (iii) review of the quality
interventions; and (iv) road user satisfaction measured via road user survey. The contract was
signed on June 25, 2012.

3.4                                              Changes made during implementation to project
scope, approach and financing
The most significant change were the reallocation of funds to provide additional funds for
component 1 in order to allow for full rehabilitation of the road sections financed by the project.
In addition, there were significant changes to the time frame for implementing the project due to
delays to the planned procurement as a result of need to revise the designs for the roads to be
rehabilitated. The approach to the OPBM was also changed to become a ‘hybrid’. Changed also
were the proposed network of roads to be included in the Pilot project.



17
   RSRD maintenance department is preparing Bidding Documents for maintenance for the next 4 years. They proposed
1 of 13 areas of network to be maintain in pilot project taking into account that selected sections pass through 3 areas
what will cause more expensive costs for other sections in this areas. This network for OPBM Contract consists of 8
sections of which 77.6 km are trunk roads and 122.66 km are regional roads.




                                                          46
Reallocation of Loan funds

RS: The credit allocations per component as a result of a request by the RS to change the
allocations to take into account changes during project implementation. Considerable progress
was made in implementing many of the planned road safety outside of the Project The Republika
Srpska approved a road safety strategy in December 2008, "Republika Srpska Road Safety
Strategy (2009-2013)". Road Safety Law on the Republic of Srpska roads was approved by the
RS National Assembly and published in Official Gazette of Republic of Srpska on Jun 21, 2011,
No 063. Meanwhile, the Federation passed the "Basis of the Road Transport Safety Strategy
(2008-2013)" in September 2008 and had developed an Action Plan for implementing its strategy.
The scope of works for the road safety consultancy services could therefore be reduced. Due to
delays in project effectiveness, the World Bank decided to finance technical assistance for the
introduction of output and performance based road maintenance contracts (OPBRMC) through
Bank budget, instead of through the Technical Assistance and Capacity Building component of
the project. This has reduced the need for financing for this component. For financing of technical
assistance for OPBM Contract EBRD loan is used.

As a result the above development, the RSRD asked the RS Ministry of Finance to request a
reallocation of funds for this project, reallocating 50 percent of project funds from component 2
and 3 to component 1. The additional fund for component 1 was used to finance the remaining
road sections under the rehabilitation of roads component of the project as rehabilitation costs had
been higher than estimated during project preparation, and the additional funds helped to
complete the program of road rehabilitation. The reallocation of funds was approved by World
Bank management on September 17, 2010 and the amount of funding available per component
became:

(1) Works for Part 2.A of the                                        80 % expenditures to be
                                               7,400,000
Project                                                              financed
(2) Goods, works and
                                                                     100 % expenditures to be
consultants’ services for Part                  600,000
                                                                     financed
2.B of the Project
(3) Consultants’ services for                                        100 % expenditures to be
                                                200,000
Part 2.C of the Project                                              financed
TOTAL                                          8,200,000

As Component 3 is to be financed by EBRD funds and as a result the RS Roads asked the RS
Ministry of Finance to request another reallocation of funds for this project which was approved
by World Bank management on July 7, 2011 the amount of funding (in SDR) available per
component became:

Item    Category                       First               Second           % of expenditures to
                                       restructuring       restructuring    be financed
1       Works for Part 2.A of    the   7.40                6.99             80
        Project
2       Goods,       works        &    0.60                1.21             100
        consultants’ services    for
        Part 2B of the Project
3       Consultants’ services    for   0.20                0.00             100
        Part 2C of the Project
        Total                          8.20                8.20



                                                  47
The RSRD also requested extension of the project to allow the road safety consultancy to be
completed. The duration of implementation of the project was extended to June 30, 2012.

FBH: JP Ceste FBIH asked for reallocation of funds due to lack of funds for rehabilitation works.
The requested reallocation of 1,200,000 SDR were from consultant’s services category (800,000
SDR from Part 1B and 400,000 SDR from Part 1C) to work category. After approval by the
Bank, the amounts allocated to each of the categories became as shown in the table below:

                                                           Amount of Financing             % of expenditures to
     Category
                                                           Allocated in SDR)               be financed
     A. Part 1 of the Project
                                                                      7,400,000.00                    80%
     1) Works for Part 1A of the Project
     2) Goods, works and consultants services
                                                                         800,000.00                   100%
        for Part 1B of the Project
     3) Consultant services for Part 1C of the
                                                                                0.00                  100%
        Project
                                 Total Amount                         8,200,000.00

4. Project Outputs and Performance Indicators 18

5. Compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguard and Fiduciary

Environment and Social Safeguards Management
The project involved implementation of physical investments that consist of minor civil works,
mostly repaving and reconstructive interventions of existing secondary and local roads and
bridges within the existing right-of-way. No long lasting environmental impacts were expected or
arose. The major environmental issues identified within the EMPs were: (i) dust generation and
fumes during works and during supply of materials to be used; (ii) exhaust fumes from machinery
and leaks; (iii) disruptions to traffic; and (iv) construction waste management. Since the project
encompasses already existing roads, no changes to runoff patterns are likely. All of the identified
environmental impacts within the EMPs were mitigated through standard practices of good
engineering. EMP forms were included in the tender documents and contracts for subcontractors.
The site supervisors conducted regular checks on the implementation of mitigation measures, as
set forth in the EMP document. The majority of waste generated on site was the scraped asphalt
from the former road paving and some municipal waste generated by the workers on site. The
scraped asphalt was either provided to the local population (individual home or business owners
which would use this material to cover their gravel parking lots or macadam access roads) or was
disposed of at the site designated for such use by the local municipality. Old guard rails and other
metal scrap will either be reused or recycled and are currently stored at the material supply
location described above. Concerning environmental monitoring, permits for material supply
were submitted to the RS Roads prior to the start of works, while covered truck loads were
verified by the site supervisor visually. Generation of dust and noise were not monitored but no
complaints were received. No leakage into the soil was observed during works or at the storage
site.

The project did not fund activities that would cause any form of land acquisition or restriction of
access to sources of livelihoods in the RS. Road rehabilitation was conducted within existing
publicly owned right-of-way. The project appraisal document required the RS Roads

18
     These are as discussed in main ICR, particularly in Annex 2 for the outputs and not detailed here.


                                                             48
Directorate to prepare community surveys to assess the impact of (i) road and bridge
rehabilitation; (ii) road safety pilots; and (iii) output and performance based road maintenance
contract (OPBRMC). These community surveys are yet to be prepared and conducted by the
RSRD. The surveys were carried out in cooperation with the entity Motor Club Association.
Surveys concerning the impact of the pilot road safety projects were made once the pilot road
safety projects were decided by the RS Roads, while surveys to assess the impact of OPBRMC
will be conducted to assess the impact of the introduction of these contracts.

Fiduciary

Project financial management arrangements were reviewed in the context of the BH Portfolio
Fiduciary Review in February 2010, including project accounting and reporting, staffing, internal
control procedures, and flow of funds. In order to further strengthen internal controls in the RS
Roads the World Bank team elaborated recommendations, namely: (i) timely submission of
unaudited interim financial reports (IFRs), 45 days after the end of the quarter; (ii) use of proper
eligibility percentages; and (iii) monitoring the uploading of prior review contracts in the World
Bank’s systems. The quarterly IFRs are submitted for regular review to the Bank. There are no
overdue audits for the project and a temporary audit waiver was granted for FY 2009 in order to
combine this audit with the one for FY 2010, which is due on June 30, 2011.

Relevance of Project Development Objectives

FBH

With the exception of the item noted below, the project objectives and goals are still relevant.
Application period of the PBMC is very short (2 years), which is not sufficient for final
evaluation of the success and expansion of method to other areas. Also, since the absence of
financial effect - savings in applying method, JP Ceste FBIH intend to apply method on the
same field and to follow results in the period of next 4 years, after which final outputs of method
application would be issued.

RS

The Project Development Objectives are to reduce user costs on the priority sections of the trunk
and regional road networks, to improve the institutional framework for road safety, and to
modernize road maintenance practices.

By the World Bank Loan 240 kilometers of trunk and regional road are rehabilitated.

As per Report on Intermediate Indicators the percentage of savings for road users in starting time
interval (year 2011) covers area from above 6% to below 38 %. Overall savings represented
through calculated Road User Costs per km vehicle are 10.5 %.
Road safety Agency in Republic of Srpska is established. Road safety strategy and action plan are
completed.

Please find attached Report on Intermediate Indicators.

Pilot performance-based maintenance contract is signed. Winter 2012 will be first winter with this
kind of maintenance and relevance will be seen in next few years.



                                                 49
The road safety component is finished by the June 30, 2012. Final Report is sent to the WB
office in Sarajevo.


6. Performance of the Borrower and the Bank

Both FBH and RS were appreciative of the very good cooperation between them and the Bank
team. They were made particular note of the support from the CO which helped to quickly
resolve problems particularly in relation to procurement.


COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

The RSRD in their response to the request for comments on the draft ICR
stated that they had no comments.

The comments below were received from the FBHRD.

We have studied BH ICR draft and our comments are the following:

Page 6 para 2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

„ As with earlier Bank operations, designs and bid documents for roads and bridges to be
rehabilitated were based on visual surveys and not available for review during preparation.“

We could not agree with mentioned due to the fact that project preparation was based on the
study for priority interventions on main roads in FBH which used date from Road and Bridge
Data Base established in FB and updated data of AADT and visual survey.

Page 6.

„Documentation of the Project in the PAD could have been improved. For example, description
of component 1 in the main part of the PAD omitted the length of roads to be rehabilitated in each
entity, did not indicate that bridges would be rehabilitated in FBH. More information could also
have been provided in annex 4 of the PAD on the approach to cost estimation, particularly the
possible impact of the still prevalent post conflict situation in the country which introduced an
element of uncertainty to the estimation of costs. „
These recommandation have not been included in Justification of Rating for Overall Bank
Performance.

Page 8.

Para 2.2 implementation
“Implementation of the Project was rated in the ISR as satisfactory up to the time of its
mid-term review. Subsequently, the rating was downgraded to moderately satisfactory up
to Project closing except for one occasion when the rating was satisfactory.?

Main delays in implementation described in this paragraph related to RS (procurement,
road design approach lower in standard than agreed, trying to deal with higher than
estimated bid prices they had launched under other IFI projects etc) and part of them to the
complex administrative approval process at the State and entity levels for effectiveness of


                                               50
the Credit which is out of control of implementing agency, leading to extension of the
Project closing date by six months.



It is not stated in this paragraph that FBH completed all procurement and implemented all
contracts within initial project closing date due to the good project management. Also it is not
mentioned that Bank team have no remarks on the technical standards used for road and bridge
rehabilitation works such as the quality of the works which is set forth in the Aide –Memoire
during supervision Missions. FBH implemented PBMC but point out that application period of
the PBMC is very short (2 years), which is not sufficient for final evaluation of the success and
expansion of method to other areas. Also, since the absence of financial effect - savings in
applying method, JP Ceste FBIH intend to apply method on the same field and to follow results
in the period of next 4 years, after which final outputs of method application would be issued.


„ A total of eight Bank supervision missions were carried out during implementation of the
Project in line with the regional norm of two supervision missions per fiscal year. There were
however notable gaps in their timing with the first twelve months after negotiation and ten
months after approval. It was during this period that errors occurred in the design approach
applied in the RS to road rehabilitation under component 1. Project supervision consultants did
not accompany the Bank team and counterpart staff during field visits.“

Above mentioned is not taken into consideration for Justification of Rating for Overall Bank
Performance.

Page 9. Para 2.Implementation
„The ageement during project preparation to have common formats for project reports would
appear not to have been followed up. This was a missed opportunity for the Bank team to obtain
information on cost of contracts being financed by EIB and EBRD which could have been useful
to the Bank in dealing with cost overruns.“
Cost of contracts being financed by EIB and EBRD could be obtained from implementing agency
by request of the Bank Team at any time during the implementation of the Project, beside the fact
that no IfI's asked implementing agaencies to prepare consolidated project reports including all
financing (EIB,EBRD,WB).

Page 11.

Para 2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Fiduciary

„There were material delays in carrying out procurement tasks in the directorates, particularly
RSRD. Deficiencies in documenting the procurement plan in the PAD also contributed to
observed delays during implementation. The procurement threshold for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) was US$500,000 potentially restricting participation of domestic contractors or
increasing their transaction costs: in Moldova, the threshold at the time of appraisal of the RISP
was US$1,000,000. These elements contributed to overall implementation delays as a result of
which procurement performance is rated moderately satisfactory.“
Above mentioned indicate that overall implementation delays as a result of which procurement
performance is rated moderately satisfactory is not only responsibility of the implementing
agency.


                                               51
page 17.
Para 5.1 Bank Perfomance

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
„This is as a result of the satisfactory rating for quality at entry and the satisfactory rating for
Project supervision. The diligence and pro-activeness of Bank’s team during preparation and
implementation, good cooperation with other IFIs and flexibility displayed in responding to
changing government request greatly contributed to the achievement of most of the project
objectives. „
We could not agree about pro-activeness of the Bank team during preparation and begining of the
implementation due to the statements mentioned in para 2.2 page 8 and para 2.4 page 11
mentioned above.

Page 18.Para 5.2 Borrower Performance
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.
„The agencies team made good efforts to ensure the project achieved its objectives, timely
responding to request for information and participating in a prepared way to Bank missions.
However, significant delays were experienced in the submission of progress reports and project
financial audit which hampered monitoring of project performance. In the RS, project
procurement and financial management staff were recruited late which created delay in the
launching of some of the procurement leading to revision of the procurement plan early in project
implementation. Project reports were generally quite detailed and useful for project monitoring.
The Borrower’s project completion report was adequate and was in the form of an expanded
progress report.“

We regard that this rating is severe.

In the Annex 2 we indicated in blue completed projects and actual cost so the total could be
adjusted and from this table is evident that in FBH actually more kilometers are rehabilitated of
estimated.

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                                PAD                                Actual as %
                                               Actual (output)
                              estimate                             of estimate
    Component                                                                        Remarks
                                                          EUR       based on
                            km       EUR       Km
                                                         million     cost/km
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected roads - FBH
M17 - Gnojnice -                                                      135.0      Completed in 2011
                            28.42     1.700
Dra?evo                                         36.15   2.963                    No variation order.
M5 - Jajce - Jajce jug                                                           Completed in 2010
                                                        0.178          94.4      Delay due bad
                              5.18    0.356
                                                 8.90   (0.014)                  weather in winter. No
                                                                                 variation order.
M17 - Ostrožac -                                         0.741         95.7      Completed in 2010
Jablanica 1                                     10.20                            Delayed for summer
                             11.79    0.813
                                                                                 holiday season.
                                                                                 Municipal works
M4 - Stanić Rijeka -                                    0.792         100.0      Completed in 2009
Gra?anica                    12.50    0.862     14.20                            No contract variation
                                                                                 order.
M4 - Gra?anica - Donja        9.50    0.655      7.90   1.211                    Completed in 2009



                                                        52
                                PAD                                      Actual as %
                                              Actual (output)
                              estimate                                   of estimate
    Component                                                                                Remarks
                                                          EUR             based on
                            km       EUR      Km
                                                         million           cost/km
Orahovica
M15 - Kami?ak - Klju?                                   From
                                                                                         Completed with
                             10.00   0.690     10.00    FBHRD
                                                                                         national budget
                                                        funds
M15 - Sanski Most 1 -                           5.00    0.457                    99.9    Completed in 2009
                              4.76   0.328
Sanski Most 3                                                                            No variation order.
M5 - Šećerhajin most -                          3.33    0.416                    87.6    Completed in 2010
                              3.33   0.230
Korija                                                                                   No variation order
M5 - Pra?a - Renovica                           7.13    0,972                            Completed in
                              7.22   0.498
                                                                                         2012,EIB cr.23924
M17 - Stup 3 – Blažuj                           6.60    0.477                    99.8    Completed in 2009
                                                                                         Remedial works done
                              6.22   0.429                                               on sub-base before
                                                                                         main works. No
                                                                                         variation order.
M17 - Blažuj - Hadžići                          3.95    0.753                            Completed in 2010
                              9.50   0.701
                                                                                         No variation order.
M17 - Blažuj - Stup 2                                                                    Completed from
                              6.10   0.421      6.10
                                                                                         EIB CR.23942
M5 - Jajce jug - Donji                         21.15                                     Plan for 2012 from
                              9.80   0.676
Vakuf 1                                                                                  EIB cr 23942
M4.2 - Grahovo -                               11.25    1,265                            Completed in 2011
                              7.80   0.538
Skokovi                                                                                  from EIB cr 23942
M4.2 - Skokovi - Cazin                         16.50    1.755                    100.0   Completed in 2011
                             15.98   1.102
                                                                                         No variation order.
                                                          9.761 of
Total                       148.10   9.999    168.36     which WB
                                                           7.808
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected bridges - FBH
M17 - Overpass Blažuj,                 0.300                  National                   Plan 2012
section Stup 3 – Blažuj,                                                                 Rehab financed from
km 6+494                                                                                 national budget
M17 - Overpass on km                                    nbf
2+100, section Blažuj -              0.350                                               Completed in 2009
Stup 2
M18 - Bridge over river                                 1.653of          100.0
Bosna and railway Ši?ki                                 which 0.195
                                     0.350              a variation                      Completed in 2010
Brod – Sarajevo, km
108+400
M18 - Bridge over                                       0.180            99.2
Brloški potok, Ši?ki Brod            0.150                                               Completed in 2010
– Sarajevo, km 34+268
M5 Viaduct Komar Donji                                  Nbf
Vakuf - Travnik, km                  0.300                                               Completed in 2011
49+812
M5 Viaduct Komar Donji                                  Nbf                              Plan 2012
Vakuf – Travnik, km                  0.300                                               Funding from
50+660                                                                                   national budget
M18 - Overpass across                                   0.239            100.0
railway in Ši?ki Brod, km            0.350                                               Completed in 2010
1+004




                                                        53
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were received from either of EBRD or EIB although requested.




                                            54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1.    Project Appraisal Document (40381-BA)
   2.    Loan Agreement (LN IDA - 43710)
   3.    Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR 0000536)
   4.    Project aide memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Implementation Status Reports
   5.    Country Portfolio Fiduciary Review Report, OPCS, ECA Region, September 2010.
   6.    Restructuring Papers (Nos. 56034-BA and 62724-BA)
   7.    Country Partnership Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina, FY08-11)
   8.    Country Partnership Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina, FY012-15)
   9.    Progress report for RSIP – Republic of Srpska, March 2012
   10.   Semestral Report for RISP – Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, February, 2012
   11.   Road Safety Management Capacity Review, May, 2007
   12.   Various reports from the road safety studies in the FBH and RS.




                                          55
                                                                                                                   RUSSIAN
                                                                              RUSSIAN                                FED.
                                                                                FED.

                                                                                                       BELARUS                                                                     BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                  NETH.

                                      GERMANY
                                                                     POLAND
                                                                                                                                                                        ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                         AND SAFETY PROJECT
                                                                                                                         50°
                             LUX.
                                                        CZECH                                           UKRAINE
                 FRANCE




                                                         REP.

                                                                            VAK REP.
                                                                         SLO
                                                                                                             MOLDOVA
                                                   AUSTRIA
                           SWITZ.
                                                                      HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT ROAD SEGMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                         TO BE REHABILITATED
                                               SLOVENIA                                      ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
                                                            CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                       PRIMARY ROADS
                                                                BOSNIA                                                                                                                                                                               DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES
                                                                 AND
                                                                  HERZ.                                                                                                SECONDARY ROADS
                                          ITALY
                                                                                SERBIA                              Black                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                      Adriatic                                   BULGARIA            Sea
                                                        Sea                                                                                                            SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                 MONTE-            FYR
                                                                                MACEDONIA
                                    Tyrrhenian
                                                                 NEGRO                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                        ALBANIA
                 40°                   Sea                                                                               40°
                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN RIVERS
                                                                                    GREECE     Aegean             TURKEY
                                                                                                Sea

                              10°                                             20°



                                                                                              To Zagreb
                                                  16°E                                                           17°E           To Bjelovar                                            18°E                                                        19°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To Osijek

                                                                                                                                              CROATIA
                    To                                                                           U na
                  Karlovac                                                                                       ˇ
                                                                                                  Bosanska Gradiska                                                     Sa              Bosanski Brod
                                                                                Bosanska Novi                  ˇ
                                                                                                    (Srp. Gradiska)                                                        v   a
                                                                                                                                                                                          (Srp.Brod)                                                                             To Belgrade
                                                                                (Novi Grad)
                                                                                                                                                   as




                     45°N                                                                   Prijedor                                                                  De
                                                                                                                                                                      Dervent
                                                                                                                                                                         rventa
                                                                                                                                                                      Derventaa                                                                                                                        45°N
                                                                                                                                               Vbr




                                               Cazin                                                                                                                                                  sna                                                                             Sava




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bo
                                                                 Bosanska                                                                                                                                                             ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Brcko
                                              Bihac´              Krupa
                                                                                                                        Banja




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                              Sanski Most                                Luka                                                                                                                           Bijeljina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Drin
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gracanica
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ˇ                                                                             To Belgrade
                              To                                                                   S
                           Sveti Rok                U
                                                                                                   an
                                                     na




                                                                                                     a




                                                                       Bosanski                                                                     Varos
                                                                                                                                              Kotor Varos
                                                                                                                                                        ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                           ´
                                                                                                                                                                      Teslic
                                                                                                                                                                      Teslic
                                                                       Petrovac
                                                                                                                                                                                                Maglaj                          Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tuzla
                                                                                                            ˇ
                                                                                                        Kljuc
                                                                                                                    REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
                      CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                             ˆ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Spreca
                          To Medak                                           D rvar
                                                                               rva
                                                                             Drvarr                                                                 ´ M
                                                                                                                                               Vlasic   ts.
                                                                                                                                                      Mts.                                            Kri
                                                                                                                                                                                                            va
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ja                                                                      To Valjevo
                                                                                                                                     Jajce
                                                                                                                                                              Travnik
                                                                                                                                                              Travnik
                                                                                                                                                                           Zenica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SERBIA
                                                                       D




                     To Obrovac                                                                                                                                                                                             Kladanj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Vlasenica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vareˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vares
                                                                             i




                                                                                                                                     Vr




                                                                                                                                         s                                              Bosna
                                                                                                                                        ba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Srebrenica
                                                                                n




                                                                                                                                                 Bugojno                                             Visoko
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Visoko                                  REPUBLIKA
                                                                                      a




                     44°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D ri                      44°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 na
                                                                                                                                       FEDERATION OF                                                                                          SRPSKA
                                                                                             r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Kraljevo
                                                                                              i




                            To
                           Zadar                                                                                                        BOSNIA AND                                               SARAJEVO
                                                                                                  c




                                                                                                          Livno                                                                                                                    Pale
                                                                                                                                       HERZEGOVINA                                 ˆ                                                                         Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                       Jablanicko
                                                                                                                                                                         jezero
                                                                                                           A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gorazde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ˇ
                                                                                                                                                   Jablanica                            Konjic                                                                                   im
                                                                                                                  l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Sjenica
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ne
                                                                                                                    p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Foca
                                                                                                                                                                                            retv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Srbinje)
                                                                                                                            s




                                                                                                                                                                                                 a




                                                                                                                                                                 Mostar



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gacko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Piv




                                                                                                                                                                          Stolac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a




                     43°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43°N


                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bileca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ´                                         MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Podgorica



                                                                            Adriatic                              Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To Shkodër



                                                                                                                               0    10        20        30       40      50 Kilometers

                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                             ALBANIA
SEPTEMBER 2007




                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                        0         10              20             30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 35620




                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                             16°E                                                                17°E                                                                   18°E                                                            19°E
