                                                                                                           99841
Loading the player ...




Safer Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Jasmina Hadzic, Communications Assistant in the Bosnia and
Herzegovina World Bank Office, offers this story.
                                                                  Photo Gallery
There are a lot more cars in Bosnia and Herzegovina than
before. And as half of the roads are in poor shape, that
means slower traffic and more bottlenecks and also more
accidents.

But there are bright spots: getting in and out of the capital
Sarajevo at rush hour isn't the headache it once was. A major
bridge spanning the Bosna River that squeezed traffic coming
in and out of the city was rebuilt and the road crossing it was
too. That has shaved lots of time off idling in the car.          Related Links

                       "I drive through this section on a daily   The World Bank in Bosnia and
                       basis. Before there were traffic jams.     Herzegovina
                       I used to be stuck in traffic for a        Road Infrastructure and Safety Project
                       whole hour. People were nervous.           Site
                       Since the reconstruction it is much        FBH Road Directorate
                       easier to get to your destination. No
                                                                  Republika Srpska Roads
                       nervousness, no traffic jams.
                       Basically, it is much better now," says    BH Ministry of Communications and
Dzemal Pandza                                                     Transport
                       Dzemal Pandza, a courier who
delivers packages and zigzags over the bridge several times       FBH Ministry of Transport and
a day.                                                            Communications
                                                                  RS Ministry of Transport and
Fixing the worst roads and most dangerous bridges is part of
                                                                   Communications
a project supported by the World Bank. The Bank has been
supporting the rehabilitation of magisterial and regional roads
through the Road Infrastructure and Safety Project, under implementation since 2008. The project builds
on the results of an earlier Bank road project, which closed in June 2007. The success of this earlier
project led the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) to contribute additional US$195 million to a program to help clear the maintenance
backlog on the road network, while the World Bank project provides US$25 million to this follow-up
program.

Most bridges and tunnels in Bosnia and Herzegovina need a lot of repairs. Roads need work, too. Of the
country's approximately 22,615 kilometers of roads, half are in good condition, with the remaining half in
either fair or poor condition.

The poor condition of roads and bridges is due to an extended period of neglect after the hostilities,
insufficient funds for routine maintenance, lack of enforcement of axle-load limits, and a significant
increase in traffic volumes.

Since 1996, with the World Bank assistance about 2,500 kilometers of roads around the country have
been rebuilt.

                         "I drive over Jošanica Bridge at least three to four times a week, and as a driver
                         I can say that the reconstruction of the bridge has significantly improved the
                         traffic. It is much easier to pass this part of the road, as it has always had traffic
                         jams in the past. Now driving through this section is much easier, also thanks to
                         the roundabout just off the bridge," says Alma Kezo, a resident of Sarajevo.

                        Fixing roads is important: road traffic in and around major urban areas is
                        growing by five percent each year. There are enough roads but they are not in
Alma Kezo               good enough shape to handle the extra wear and tear. They need upgrading
                        and enhancing. And that is despite a decade of substantial expenditures—
insufficient money on maintenance since the end of the conflict has led to the premature deterioration of
many roads. Large investments are required to reconstruct roads and bridges, and more importantly to
build new ones with more capacity and of better quality to meet the needs of the market economy.
Significant investments have been made, and improvements are evident, but more is required.

Road safety also remains a serious social and public health issue. The state of the road network, driver
behavior and limited education, poor or nonexistent enforcement, and significant growth in vehicle
ownership and use have increased traffic accidents—there were 436 fatalities and 8,470 injuries in
2004. The 2008 rates declined slightly to 5.3 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles, but the rate is still nearly 3
times higher than the EU-27 average. Hence, road safety is a significant and growing concern that
requires a comprehensive response.

Significant progress has been made to work towards better drivers and safer roads. An institutional
framework for road safety has been established, and road safety strategies, have been approved in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
