Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2067 BUR
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 21, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2067 BUR
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1994, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Urban Project), dated December 22, 1989 (the Development 
Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting, inter alia, in the creation of 
employment through the carrying out of public works;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of said public works by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
6,900,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection (p) and adding a new Subsection 
(q) as follows: 
"(q) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Second Urban Project) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated 1994;".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 24,900,000) (the Credit), which 
includes an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eighteen 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,000,000) and an 
additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; and provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. The following amendments are made to the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
(a)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (4) (a) is increased from 
SDR 6,100,000 to SDR 9,880,000;
(b)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (4) (b) is increased from 
SDR 3,200,000 to SDR 5,150,000;
(c)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (5) is increased from SDR 
2,350,000 to SDR 2,970,000;
(d)
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (6) is increased from SDR 
2,700,000 to SDR 3,250,000; and
(e)
the total amount of the Credit referred to at the end of the said table 
is increased from SDR 18,000,000 to SDR 24,900,000.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until:
(a)
a public works engineer and a financial analyst, suitably experienced and 
qualified, acceptable to the Association, have been appointed; 
(b)
a qualified accounting firm, experienced in working according to the 
International Accounting Standards and acceptable to the Association, has been 
recruited in accordance with the dispositions of Section II, Schedule 3 of the 
Development Credit Agreement to audit works and services to be implemented under this 
Amending Agreement in accordance with
Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement;
Page  3
(c)
satisfactory evidence shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and
(d)
the Bobo-Dioulasso Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Kadiogo Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement have been amended in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions, satisfactory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower:
(a)
that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the amended Bobo-Dioulasso Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the amended 
Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and Bobo-Dioulasso and Kadiogo, respectively, and are legally binding upon 
the Borrower and Bobo-Dioulasso and Kadiogo, respectively, in accordance with their 
terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Gaetan Ouedraogo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
