Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2067 BUR
(Second Urban Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 22, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2067 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1989, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of the Republic of 
Italy (Italy) a grant (the Italian Grant) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Italian Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Italy; and
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Kadiogo and Bobo-Dioulasso, 
respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Kadiogo and Bobo-Dioulasso part of the proceeds of the 
Page  2
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Bobo-Dioulasso" means the city of Bobo-Dioulasso, created by Kiti No. 
AN-VI-0316/FP/MAT of July 6, 1989;
(b)
"Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and Bobo-Dioulasso of even date herewith, as the same may  be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and  agreements supplemental to the 
Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement;
(c)
"Bobo-Dioulasso Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to  be 
entered into between the Borrower and Bobo-Dioulasso pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) (ii) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Bobo-Dioulasso Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"Hotel des Finances" means a single building in which the local  branches 
of the tax, land registry and treasury authorities are located;
(f)
"Housing Policy" means the Borrower's policy set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Kadiogo" means the Borrower's Province of Kadiogo;
 
(h)
"Kadiogo Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and Kadiogo of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Kadiogo Project 
Agreement;
(i)
"Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Kadiogo pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and  such term includes all 
schedules to the Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)
"ONASENE" means Office National des Services d'Entretien, de  Nettoyage 
et d'Embellissement of the Borrower, established by Kiti No.  AN-V-0332/FP/MET of 
August 3, 1988 as modified from time to time;
(k)
"ONEA" means the Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement of the 
Borrower, under the supervision of the Minister of Water;
(l)
"Ouagadougou" means part of the Province of Kadiogo, as defined in 
Article 4 of Kiti No. AN-VI-0315/FP/MAT of July 6, 1989, on reorganization and status 
of the Province of Kadiogo;
(m)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in the respective 
Sections 2.02 of the Kadiogo Project Agreement and the Bobo-Dioulasso Project 
Page  3
Agreement;
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
February 12, 1986 and May 2, 1986 between the Borrower and the Association;
(o)
"Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; and
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in a commercial bank in the name of the Project Unit on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2000 and ending August 1, 2029. Each 
Page  4
installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2009 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall /not change the 
grant element obtained under the above mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Project Director of the Project Unit is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B, C, D.8, D.9 and F of the Project; 
(ii) carry out Parts D.5 and D.7 of the Project through ONEA; (iii) carry out all 
training activities under the Project through the Project Unit; (iv) cause Kadiogo and 
Bobo-Dioulasso to perform, under the overall coordination of the Project Unit and in 
accordance with the respective provisions of the Kadiogo Project Agreement and the 
Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement, all the respective obligations of Kadiogo and 
Bobo-Dioulasso set forth in said Agreements; (v) take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable Kadiogo and Bobo-Dioulasso to perform such 
obligations; and (vi) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit: (i) 
allocated to Categories 2 and 4 (a) in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
Kadiogo under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Kadiogo; and (ii) allocated to Categories 3 and 4 (b) in the table in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement to Bobo-Dioulasso under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Bobo-Dioulasso.
(b)
The terms and conditions of the Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the 
Bobo-Dioulasso Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been approved by the Association 
and shall include, inter alia,: (i) repayment of principal in forty years including a 
ten year grace period; and (ii) repayment in semi-annual installments of 1% of the 
principal amount from the eleventh to the twentieth year and 2% thereafter.
Section 3.03. During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain 
within its Ministry of Finance a Project Unit, adequately staffed, to assure the 
Page  5
administrative and financial coordination of the Project, including but not limited 
to: (a) the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services for the Project;
(b)
management of all contracts and activities under the Project with the 
exception of civil works contracts; and 
(c)
accounting, monitoring of disbursements and preparation of reports on the 
progress of the Project. 
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
take the following measures within the time periods specified, counting from the 
effective date of this Agreement:
(a)
within 22 months, carry out a study of the Borrower's municipal policies 
and resources;
(b)
within 24 months, discuss with the Association said study's 
recommendations for reform  of said policies and a timetable for their implementation;
(c)
within 36 months, take all measures necessary to carry out the 
recommendations so agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, in accordance 
with the agreed timetable;
(d)
within 46 months, carry out a study on the municipal needs in areas of 
additional financing, public domain, the accounting system, the investment planning 
system, municipal organization and functions and inter-municipal cooperation;
(e)
within 48 months, discuss with the Association said study's 
recommendations for reform of municipal policies and a timetable for their 
implementation; and
(f)
within 60 months, take all measures necessary to carry out the 
recommendations so agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, in accordance 
with the agreed timetable.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) not later than six months after the effective date of this Agreement, finalize a 
study of its business tax collection system;
(b)
not later than eight months after the effective date of this Agreement, 
discuss with the Association the recommendations of said study; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, take all measures necessary to increase business tax 
revenues for Kadiogo and Bobo-Dioulasso in order to increase revenues by at least 30% 
over their level at 1985 and to reach a recovery rate of at least 75%, not later than 
48 months after the effective date of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall 
adhere to its Housing Policy.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990 and thereafter 
not later than June 30 of each year the Project is carried out,  review jointly with 
the Association the progress achieved in carrying out:
(a)
the municipal reforms referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
 
(b)
the tax reforms referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
 
(c)
the Borrower's Housing Policy.
 
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than two years after the effective 
date of this Agreement, define and classify its roads and undertake to maintain 
national road sections within boundaries of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.10. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of  the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Project Unit, assisted, as the case may be, by Kadiogo in respect of Parts of the 
Project carried out in
Ouagadougou or for Kadiogo pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Kadiogo Project Agreement, 
and by Bobo-Dioulasso in respect of Parts of the Project carried  out in or for 
Bobo-Dioulasso, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect  of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out Parts A, B, C, D.5, D.7, 
D.8, D.9 and F of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the Special Account and the Project 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the 
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association  shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Kadiogo or Bobo-Dioulasso shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Kadiogo Project Agreement or the Bobo-Dioulasso Project 
Agreement respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Page  7
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Kadiogo or Bobo-Dioulasso will be able  to perform its 
obligations under the Kadiogo Project Agreement or the Bobo-Dioulasso Project 
Agreement, respectively.
(c)
Kiti No. AN-VI-0315/FP/MAT or No. AN-VI-0316/FP/MAT of July 6, 1989 of 
the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed  or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of Kadiogo  or Bobo-Dioulasso to 
perform any of its obligations under the Kadiogo  Project Agreement or the 
Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement, respectively.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Kadiogo or Bobo-Dioulasso or for 
the suspension of its operations.
(e)
The Cahiers des Charges, dated October 11, 1989, as subsequently amended 
in each case  by a Rectificatif to the Cahier des Charges, dated November 24, 1989, 
between ONASENE on one side and Kadiogo and  Bobo-Dioulasso on the other side, 
respectively shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
without prior approval of the Association.
(f)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action which shall make it improbable that the Housing Policy shall be carried 
out.
(g)
The Italian Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 1990, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the  Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate  funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Italian Grant made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated  
in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the Italian Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that (A) such suspension, 
cancellation or termination is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds 
for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and Kadiogo;
Page  8
(b)
the Bobo-Dioulasso Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and Bobo-Dioulasso; and
(c)
the Borrower has taken all necessary legal and administrative action for 
the establishment of three Hotels des Finances in Ouagadougou and two in 
Bobo-Dioulasso.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Kadiogo Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Kadiogo, and is legally binding upon Kadiogo in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Bobo-Dioulasso, and is legally binding upon Bobo-Dioulasso in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this  Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the  Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
03 BP 7050
Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2033
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
BURKINA FASO
Page  9
By /s/ Paul-Desire Kabore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
1)   Civil works for         1,200,000      (a)  100% up to an
     national roads                              aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 470,000;
                                            (b)  80% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 870,000;
                                            (c)  50% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 1,090,000;
                                                 and
                                            (d)  20% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 1,200,000
(2)  Routine road              530,000      (a)  100% up to an
     maintenance                                 aggregate amount
     and drainage                                of SDR 225,000;
     cleaning in                            (b)  80% up to an
     Ouagadougou                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 310,000;
                                            (c)  50% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 390,000;
                                                 and
                                            (d)  20% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 530,000
(3)  Routine road              370,000      (a)  100% up to an
     maintenance                                 aggregate amount
     and drainage                                of SDR 175,000;
     cleaning in                            (b)  80% up to an
     Bobo-Dioulasso                              aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 260,000;
                                            (c)  50% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 340,000;
                                                 and
                                            (d)  20% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
Page  10
                                                 of SDR 370,000
(4)  Construction of                             100%
     buildings,
     reconstruction
     and scheduled
     maintenance of
     infrastructure,
     materials, equip-
     ment and supplies
     (a)  Ouagadougou        6,100,000
     (b)  Bobo-Dioulasso     3,200,000
(5)  Public works and        1,900,000           100%
     equipment for
     Hotels des Finances
     and Colma drainage
     network
(6)  Consultants'            1,300,000           100%
     services and
     training
(7)  Operating                 200,000           100%
     expenses for
     Project Unit
(8)  Refunding of              400,000           Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(9)  Unallocated             2,800,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  18,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
in respect of Categories (2) (b), (2) (c) and (2) (d), respectively, 
unless Kadiogo is current in its obligations underSection 2.02 of the Kadiogo Project 
Agreement and the Association is satisfied with the  level of funding of road 
construction and maintenance, and solid waste  management in Kadiogo's budget for the 
current year and the actual level of expenditures for these items in the previous 
year; and
(c)
in respect of Categories (3) (b), (3) (c) and (3) (d), respectively, 
unless Bobo-Dioulasso is current in its obligations under Section 2.02 of the 
Bobo-Dioulasso Project Agreement and the Association is  satisfied with the level of 
funding of road construction and maintenance, and solid waste management in 
Bobo-Dioulasso's budget for the current year  and the actual level of expenditures for 
these items in the previous year.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to develop Kadiogo's and Bobo-Dioulasso's 
organizational, technical and financial capacity to manage rapid urban growth and to 
Page  11
upgrade and maintain their infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Municipal Management and Reform in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
 
1.
Revision of municipal accounting methods and preparation of an accounting manual 
for municipal personnel.
2.
Computerization of the municipal accounting systems.
 
3.
Completion of municipal financial accounts for the years 1986-1989.
 
4.
Municipal sector study in order to delineate municipal responsibilities, 
reorganize municipal departments and streamline their operations.
Part B:
Financial Resource Mobilization
 
1.
Rehabilitation or construction of office space for five Hotels des  Finances, 
three in Ouagadougou and two in Bobo-Dioulasso; provision of supplies and equipment to 
said Hotels and training of their personnel.
2.
Increase of municipal revenues through reform of the Borrower's business tax 
system.
Part C:
Urban Information System for Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
 
1.
Preparation of a system of street names for lots and installation of street 
signs.
2.
Establishment of a computerized land use data base; provision of supplies, 
equipment and training to municipal personnel working with said base.
3.
Registration of ownership of about 40,000 newly occupied lots in Ouagadougou and 
collection of fees on said lots.
Part D:
Public Works Departments and Rehabilitation of Infrastructure in 
Ouagadougou and 
Bobo-Dioulasso
 
1.
Rehabilitation and repair of existing equipment and buildings of public works 
departments, provision of new equipment and tools and construction of buildings.
2.
Training of personnel in technical departments in improved work programming and 
management procedures.
3.
Routine and scheduled maintenance of municipal roads and drainage works.
 
4.
Rehabilitation of infrastructure in poor condition.
 
5.
Reconstruction of the Zogona gulley in Ouagadougou and of the Colma drainage 
network in Bobo-Dioulasso.
6.
Detailed engineering and supervision of civil works.
 
7.
Preparation of a comprehensive sewerage and drainage master plan for 
Ouagadougou.
8.
Routine and scheduled maintenance of national road sections within the 
boundaries of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
9.
Implementation of the definition and classification of the Borrower's roads.
 
Part E:
Solid Waste Management
 
1.
Repair of existing garbage collection equipment and provision of new equipment.
Page  12
2.
Establishment of four waste disposal sites, two in Ouagadougou and two in 
Bobo-Dioulasso.
Part F:
Housing
 
Reform of the Borrower's housing policy.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped in  bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a  margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower, Kadiogo or Bobo-Dioulasso may grant a margin of preference 
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for goods, estimated to cost between the equivalents of $25,000 and 
$200,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the  equivalent of $1,000,000, may 
be awarded on the basis of competitive  bidding, advertised locally, in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Contracts for goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited  from a list of at least three 
suppliers, either Burkinabe or from other countries eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of  $3,600,000, may be 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Routine road maintenance estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $3,000,000 may be carried out through force account.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to the first three contracts, regardless of their size, and 
thereafter each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  $200,000 or more, the 
Page  13
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required  to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out all training activities and 
Parts A, B, C, D.5, D.7, D.8, D.9 and F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 7 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On  the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of  the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  14
(b)
(i)
For  replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule  for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account  for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such  procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made  until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for  subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant   provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 5
Housing Policy
1.
The Borrower shall implement a new urban housing policy, based on the following 
main points:
(a)
the internal financial viability of new housing construction projects 
undertaken by the Borrower or any entity under its control shall be assured;
(b)
in committing its financial and technical resources to housing, the 
Borrower shall give priority to the financing of equipping and developing of serviced 
plots for the financially least favored part of its population;
(c)
the Borrower shall encourage construction of housing through private 
initiative (autoconstruction);
(d)
the Borrower shall support the development of financing mechanisms for 
housing, and of institutions that contribute to improving the efficiency of household 
savings and their investment in construction of owner-occupied or rental housing; and
(e)
the Borrower shall progressively introduce measures to reduce the deficit 
produced by existing housing projects that it has constructed.
2.
In order to improve management of public expenditures for housing and  to 
implement a housing policy in accordance with social priorities, the Borrower shall 
take the following steps: 
2.1
Financial viability of new projects.
 
The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a comprehensive financial 
analysis of each new housing construction project, prior to the  start of such 
project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare a file which  shall include the 
following information:
(a)
description of the project, by category of housing;
 
(b)
estimated amount of investment and maintenance costs;
 
(c)
status and terms of available financing, together with details on 
budgetary allocations or availability of loans;
(d)
description of the matre d'ouvrage and the management of the project;
 
(e)
structure of monthly rental or sales installments, by category of 
housing; and
(f)
description of possible tenants or buyers, categorized by their financial 
means.
2.2
Support for the development of serviced plots
 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
give priority to the establishment of systems under which plots are 
listed, categorized and described; it will improve the collection of allotment fees;
(b)
give technical and financial support to put in place priority 
infrastructure, such as basic roads and water supply, in recently or newly subdivided 
areas; and
(c)
coordinate the maitrise d'ouvrage and implementation of construction on 
the basis of priority programs.
2.3
Establishment of new mechanisms to finance housing
 
Page  16
The Borrower shall continue its study of:
(a)
mechanisms likely to develop domestic savings that might be made 
available for housing;
(b)
the feasibility of a new institution which would make loans to  
households for the construction of owner-occupied or rental housing; and
(c)
the conditions under which the banking system could participate in 
creating such an institution.
2.4
Support to legal framework for rental housing
 
At the conclusion of its study of the financing of the housing sector,  the 
Borrower shall formulate proposals to encourage the construction of rental housing by 
households and to create a favorable fiscal, regulatory  and technical climate for the 
development of rental housing.
2.5
Legal, technical and financial restructuring of existing housing projects 
undertaken by the 
Borrower
 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
regroup and reorganize the management of such projects and produce a 
management account forecast including: the financial charges resulting from the 
original loans for these projects, a statement of all public  support from their 
inception to their completion, and a realistic evaluation of the administrative and 
maintenance cost of the buildings; and
(b)
put in place a framework under which property can be sold and transferred 
immediately to potential final owners.
