DOOUMENT
CREDIT NUMBER 2067 BUR
Kadiogo Project Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF KADIOGO
Dated   j                            , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2067 BUR
KADIOGO PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  a       ,  ,  d,            , 1989, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the
PROVINCE OF KADIOGO (Kadiogo).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Burkina Faso (the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Kadiogo agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Kadiogo, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to Kadiogo on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Kadiogo, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Kadiogo declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this and shall: (a) carry
out Parts D.1 through D.4, D.6 and E of the Project within
Ouagadougou, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, municipal
budgetting  and environmental practices; (b) cooperate with ONEA
in carrying out Parts D.5 and D.7 of the Project under the overall
coordination of the Project Unit; and (c) provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Kadiogo
shall:
(a) open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, and thereafter maintain a Project Account in a
commercial bank, for payment of expenditures under the Project,
carried out in Ouagadougou or for Kadiogo, and not financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b) make into such Project Account deposits so that the
funds available in the Project Account shall at all times be
sufficient to permit timely and efficient execution of the
Project, carried.out in Ouagadougou or for Kadiogo.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be carried out on behalf of Kadiogo by the
Project Unit, and shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Kadiogo shall assist the Project Unit in
carrying out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project, carried out in Ouagadougou or for Kadiogo.
Section 2.05. Kadiogo shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Kadiogo shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. (a) Kadiogo shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the allocations to the infrastructure
sector within its budget of the current and the previous year, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Kadiogo shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Kadiogo of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Kadiogo Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Kadiogo shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) Kadiogo shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(administrative and city accounts and related
statements, Project Account) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Kadiogo thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 40 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Kadiogo of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General. Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Kadiogo:
Haut Commissariat de la Province
du Kadiogo
01 BP 85 Ouagadougou 01
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Kadiogo, may be taken or executed by the
High-Commissioner of the Province of Kadiogo or such other person
or persons as said High Commissioner shall designate in writing,
and Kadiogo shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6  -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   'I
Regional Vice President
Africa
PROVINCE OF KADIOGO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


