Report No. 725a-BD                                                            FILE  COPY
Bangladesh: Appraisal of the
Muhuri Irrigation Project
May 31, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to
the US Dollar and consequently the Taka, US Dollar rate
is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report, except where stated to the
contrary.
US$1            =     Tk 15.0
Tk 1           =      US$0.067
Tk 1 million   =      US$67,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I acre (ac)                  =      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                  =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)        =      640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                  =      30.5 centimeters (cm)
I maund (md)                 =      82.3 lbs (37.3 kg)
I metric ton (ton)           =      26.8 md
I cubic foot per second
(cusec)                   =     0.028 cubic meter per second



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BADC        -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRRI        -    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CEC         -    Central Evaluation Committee
GOB         -    Government of Bangladesh
HYV         -    High Yielding Variety (of rice)
IRDP        -    Integrated Rural Development Program
LLP         -    Low-Lift Pump
MFWP        -   Ministry of Flood Control, Water Resources and Power
PIC         -    Project Implementation Committee
SCF         -    Standard Conversion Factor
TAO         -    Thana Agriculture Officer
TEO         -    Thana Extension Officer
TCCA        -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP         -    Thana Irrigation Program
UAA         -    Union Agriculture Assistant
VEA         -    Village Extension Agent
WDB         -    Water Development Board
GLOSSARY
Aiman       -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon and
harvested in November or December (B. aman is
broadcast, T. aman is transplanted)
Aus         -    Rice planted during March and April and harvested
during July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T.
aus is transplanted)
Boro        -    Rice planted in winter and harvested during the
period April to June
Khal        -    Natural drainage channel
Paddy       -    Unhulled rice
Thana       -    Smallest administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There
are 413 thanas in the country. Six or seven thanas
form a subdivision, three or four subdivisions form a
District, and there are 19 Districts in the country
Union       -    A unit of local self government.  There are about
ten unions in each thana
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
I Thi document has a rmtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............           .. .............    i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  . .........              ............................           1
II.    BACKGROUND  ........ ............. ...................
General  ............. .........................
Agricultural Development  .....                ................       2
Irrigation Development  ......               .................        3
IDA Support to Irrigation   .....                ..............       4
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  . ...................... ...                                5
General ..........................                                    5
Climate  .......        .................... .                        5
Topography and Soils  ...................          ........           6
Water Resources  ......           ....................                6
Existing Irrigation and Drainage  ............ .                      6
Farm Size and Land Tenure  ....................                       7
Agricultural Production  ..................... .                      8
Transportation and Marketing  .............. ...                      9
IV.    THE PROJECT .......................................                           9
General   ................................... .                       9
Project Features  ...             ..........................          9
Water Quality,  Supply and Demand  ........ .....                    11
Engineering Design  .......           ....................           11
Construction Schedule ......              ..................         12
Cost Estimates              ...............................          12
Financing  ............. .......................                     14
Procurement and Contracts  . ........                ..........      14
Disbursement             .................................           15
Accounts and Audit                ...........................        15
Environmental Impact  ......            ...................          15
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which
visited Bangladesh in September-October 1974, comprising Messrs. R. R.
Morton, P. Garg, U. Hpu, P. Ljung, and A. Feinstein (Consultant). The
report was updated by Mr. P. Garg.



- 2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................        16
Implementation of Project Works .............       16
Consulting Services .....  ................... .    17
Monitoring and Evaluation .............. .....      17
Operation and Maintenance .................*.       18
Agricultural Supporting Services ............ .     18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ...       20
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns    ........    20
Yields and Production .....      ..................  21
Marketing   ............................................ o....  21
Prices   ........   o  .............................  22
Farm  Incomes   .........  .  .  .  .     ....................   . .........  .  22
Recovery of Costs ......... ................        23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................       24
General ........ o   ............................   24
Rice Production . ............................      24
Employment Opportunities .................  ..      24
Income Distribution ......   ...................    25
Economic Rate of Return ........a or............    25
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .26
ANNEXES
1.  The Agricultural Sector
2.   Climatic Data
3.   Project Works
4.  Water Supply and Demand
5.   Implementation Schedule
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements, and Proposed
Allocation of the Aid Package
8.   Agricultural Supporting Services
9.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
10.   Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
11.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
12.   Farm Labor Analysis
13.   Economic Analysis
MAP No.
11532   Project Location
11533   Project Area



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh.  It accounts for
over half of the GDP, 75% of the employment, and over 80% of the exports.
Although rice is grown on about 80% of the cultivated acreage and represents
about two-thirds of the value of agricultural production, rice production
has not been able to meet the requirements of a rapidly growing population.
During the past five years, Bangladesh has imported an average of 1.5 M tons
of foodgrains annually. GOB strategy for the agricultural sector gives high
priority to increasing food production through promotion of modern inputs
(improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) and through further expansion of
irrigation from low-lift pumps and tubewells.
ii.       Irrigation facilities provided by the project would expand the boro
rice area from the present 15,000 ac to about 50,000 ac. In the wet season,
project works would reduce flooding and allow supplementary irrigation. This
would permit a shift from local varieties to HYVs on 10,000 ac. By preventing
overland seawater intrusion, 3,000 ac of presently marginal and largely un-
cropped land would be brought to high productivity. About 1,100 units of
5 to 7 hp diesel-powered low-lift pumps, each serving an average of 45 ac,
would irrigate the area from an extensive network of natural and project-
improved channels (khals). A reservoir formed by a coastal earthfill embank-
ment, a dam across the Feni River Channel and a gated regulator structure would
provide a permanent source of fresh water.  The rivers would be free of tidal
fluctuations and the attendant salinity. Khal excavation would make water
available and small-vessel navigation possible throughout the area.  The regu-
lator would also improve flood drainage by protecting waterways from tidal
surges.  This would allow discharge from the project area when tidal levels
in the Sandwip Channel drop below reservoir level. In addition to pumps and
civil works, the project would provide supporting facilities and equipment,
including operation and maintenance facilities.
iii.      Total project costs are estimated at US$52.0 M, including about
US$9.8 M equivalent in import taxes and duties. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is estimated at US$18.4 M or about 44% of the total net of taxes and
duties. The major elements in the cost estimates are: land acquisition
(US$0.5 M); civil works (US$29.1 M); equipment & vehicles (US$2.7 M); con-
sulting services (US$3.7 M); and management and administration (US$1.6 M) --
adding to a base project cost of US$37.6 M. Physical contingencies (US$4.2 M)
and price contingencies (US$10.2 M) bring the estimated project cost to
US52.0 M.
iv.       Project implementation would take five years.  The Bangladesh Water
Development Board, under the Ministry of Flood Control, Water Resources and
Power, would have overall responsibility for management and execution of the
project works. Several Government agencies would be involved in implementing



- ii -
the project. Interagency coordination would be provided by an Interdepart-
mental Project Implementation Committee chaired by the Project Director. A
Central Evaluation Committee, headed by a senior representative of the Govern-
ment, would periodically review project progress and resolve coordination
problems. A consulting firm would be engaged to assist in project imple-
mentation.
v.        Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines. The major civil works contract for the regulator has already been
tendered for international competitive bidding, bids have been received and
analyzed, and the award is awaiting approval of the IDA credit. ICB would
be impractical for other civil works such as channel excavation, drainage
structures, embankments, access roads and transmission line as these works
involve many small operations, scattered over a wide area, which can be
undertaken only during the dry season. Contracts for these works would be
awarded after local competitive bidding. Equipment and imported materials
for these works would however be procured through ICB.
vi.       Following completion of project construction, the primary benefit
from the project would be a 60% increase in rice production over the ensuing
three-year development period. This would lead to an increased income for
some 45,000 farm families, most of whom are small farmers (the average area
farmed is about 1.6 ac). Annual production in the project area would increase
from the present 73,000 tons of paddy to 145,000 tons at full development.
The net foreign exchange savings from incremental rice production under the
project would be around US$8 M per year. At the projected world market price
for milled rice of US$280 per metric ton cif Chittagong, the project's eco-
nomic rate of return would be about 16%. Sensitivity tests indicate that the
project would remain economically viable under a variety of adverse assumptions.
vii.      With the agreements obtained from the GOB, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$21 M equivalent. The IDA credit, together
with a proposed Canadian credit of Canadian $9 M (US$8.6 M), would finance
70% of the estimated total project costs excluding taxes and duties. The
Borrower would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) has
requested an IDA credit of US$21 M to assist in financing the Muhuri Irriga-
tion Project. GOB also expects to receive a credit from the Government of
Canada for Canadian $9.0 M (US$8.6 M) for financing part of the project
costs. Since Bangladesh independence in 1971, IDA has assisted in four
irrigation projects in Bangladesh. Two IDA credits have also been provided
to finance technical assistance to the Government in project preparation.
The status of IDA-financed projects for irrigation development in the country
is described in Chapter II.
1.02      Feasibility studies for the Muhuri Project were conducted by a joint
venture of consulting engineers -- International Engineering Co., USA, and
Rahman and Associates, Bangladesh. The studies began in 1970 under IDA Credit
S-10-PAK. When disbursements under this credit were suspended in December
1971 due to the War of Independence, a draft report on a combined irrigation
and flood control project had been completed. On resumption of studies under
Credit S-14-BD, the basic data was updated and the irrigation and flood con-
trol components analyzed on a phased development basis. A revised feasibility
report was completed in December 1973 and preappraised in April 1974. An
Appraisal Mission, comprising Messrs. R.R. Morton, P. Garg, U. Hpu, P. Ljung
(IDA) and A. Feinstein (Consultant), visited Bangladesh in September-October,
1974. The mission concluded that the civil works required for the project
would be complex in relation to works previously undertaken in Bangladesh and
to estimate the project costs would entail an unusually large degree of uncer-
tainty. To avoid possible cost overruns and to ensure economic viability of
the project, it was decided that IDA assistance for the project would be
finalized after evaluation of the bids for the major civil works contract for
the project. Following agreement with IDA on the above approach, GOB tendered
the major civil works for international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA guidelines in June 1976. Bids were received in September 1976. Evaluation
of the bids based on an agreed bidder post-qualification procedures was com-
pleted in April 1977 and the contract award is awaiting approval of IDA credit
for the project.
1.03      This report, based on the findings of the 1974 Appraisal Mission,
has been revised by Mr. P. Garg (IDA) to reflect the developments since the
appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Bangladesh has an area of 55,000 sq mi of which 8,500 sq mi are
forest about 5,000 sq mi are rivers and swamps, and about 35,000 sq mi
are cultivable. The population density of Bangladesh is among the highest



- 2 -
in the world with about 1,500 persons per sq mi (an estimated population of 81
M in 1977, increasing at about 3% annually). About 90% of the population live
in rural areas and at least 80% are dependent on agriculture, predominantly
rice and jute cultivation. About one-third of all rural households are
landless and about two-fifths of the labor force is under-employed all year
around. Although nearly three-quarters of the adults are illiterate, currently
some 56% of the children ages six to ten are enrolled in primary schools. The
per capita income of about US$125 (in 1977 prices) per year is among the
world's lowest.
Agricultural Development
2.02      Agriculture contributes about 55% of GDP and accounts for about
80% of exports -- mainly raw jute, jute goods, and some tea. Over the last
five years, the annual cropped area has averaged 30.3 M ac giving a cropping
intensity of about 135%. Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for
80% of the cropped area; jute for 6% and a variety of other crops such as
pulses, oilseed, wheat, sugarcane and vegetables for the remaining 14%.
2.03      During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate of
about 2.5% and foodgrain production at a rate of 2.4%. However, both lagged
behind the population growth rate of about 2.8% and as a result foodgrain
imports increased. During the first half of the 1970s, for a variety of
reasons, production remained below the 11.8 M ton peak of 1969/70. In 1975/
76, however, exceptionally favorable weather, improved availability of
fertilizers and unusually high foodgrain prices in the previous year, re-
sulted in a record foodgrain production of 13 M tons. However, Bangladesh
still had to import about 1.5 M tons of foodgrains in that year. Substan-
tial food imports are likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
2.04      Possibilities are limited for expanding the cultivated area of 22.5
M ac and gains in production will require more intensive land use and higher
yields. While soil fertility is generally good and temperatures allow year-
round cropping, irrigation is essential for crop production during the dry
season (November - March). About 2.5 M ac are deeply flooded (over 15 ft)
annually and cultivation is possible only after the flood subsides in November.
An additional area of 5.5 M ac is flooded from 3 to 15 ft and is therefore
only suitable for one crop of low-yielding, long stalk or floating rice. In
addition, abnormal floods, cyclones and drought often limit production.
2.05      The average landholding villager owns about 1.5 ac.  He may rent
another acre from farmers with larger holdings. His total area is usually
fragmented into four or five plots. Most of the rice produced by the
average farmer goes to feed his family; his cash earnings are small, and
he is usually in debt.
2.06      A primary objective of the Government is to improve village
living standards by raising agricultural production. As the short-term
approach to increasing foodgrain production, GOB is emphasizing the need for
a rapid spread of high yielding rice varieties (HYV), with the provision of



fertilizers, pesticides, and, where possible, of irrigation by low-lift pumps
and tubewells. This strategy, as detailed in the 9-volume Land and Water
Resources Sector Study prepared by the Bank staff (Report No. PS-13 dated
December 1, 1972) aims in particular at strengthening the agricultural
institutions, developing groundwater resources and improving input supply.
2.07      The strengthening of agricultural institutions is being helped
by an on-going review of the Ministry of Agriculture, financed under the IDA
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 409-BD). The IDA supported Agricultural
and Rural Training Project (Credit 621-BD), assisted by the UNDP/FAO Agri-
cultural Extension Project, will provide training programs for extension
and rural development staff. The IDA supported Rural Development Project
(Credit 631-BD) also provides for strengthening of the rural institutions
and services in seven thanas. A Jute Project is now being processed by
IDA; it would strengthen the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) by
providing additional staff, vehicles and housing for the extension service
and credit and storage facilities for the farmers. An Extension and Research
Project (EARP) which would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural exten-
sion and research services in Bangladesh is also under consideration. The
agricultural development in Bangladesh is discussed in more detail in Annex 1.
Irrigation Development
2.08      For centuries, Bangladesh farmers have used bucket-lift irrigation
methods for cultivating a dry-season rice crop (boro) on land near low-lying
water bodies and perennial rivers. Almost no water resource development
took place until WDB was established in 1959 and BADC in 1962. Irrigation
is now available for about 2.7 M ac: 0.2 M ac by gravity supply; 0.2 M
ac by groundwater from tubewells; 1.3 M ac by low-lift pumps, and 1 M ac
by traditional methods. Flood protection has been provided for about 1.5 M
ac, of which 1.3 M ac is primarily saline water protection in the coastal
region. Partial flood protection is provided for about 0.9 M ac.
2.09      In the early 1960s, much of the development effort was focused on
large scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects such as the Ganges-
Kobadak, Chandpur and Coastal Embankment Projects. Although these projects
now provide irrigation to about 0.2 M ac and flood protection to about 1.5 M
ac, their overall impact, particularly in view of the massive investments
involved, has been disappointing. Most of the projects suffered from
large cost overruns and long implementation delays and benefits to-date have
generally been much smaller than projected. Part of the reason for the dis-
appointing results has been an all-pervasive weakness in implementation capa-
city, although inadequate technical and economic evaluations have also been
partly responsible for the disappointing results.
2.10      Considerably more successful have been relatively low-cost and
quick-yielding minor irrigation schemes such as low-lift pump and tubewell
schemes. Low-lift pumps (LLPs) are small capacity (1-2 cusecs) diesel powered
centrifugal pumps used to raise irrigation water from perennial streams and
ponds. Starting from scratch in the late 1950s, the program has now expanded
to some 40,000 pumps, irrigating an estimated 1.3 M ac. Despite problems of



- 4 -
underutilization and inadequate maintenance, the program is highly attractive
economically. The major constraint to further expansion of the LLP program
is the availability of surface water during the dry season. It is estimated
that installation of some 10,000 additional pumps would exhaust the current
potential. Further expansion of the program would have to be in conjunction
with improvement of natural channels, building of control structures and
regulators and, in some cases, double pumping as proposed in this project
(Muhuri Project) and in the IDA-supported Barisal and Karnafuli Projects).
This would be more expensive but, still quite attractive in many cases.
2.11      Groundwater resources are being rapidly developed through the on-
going programs of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
The IDA supported Deep Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD) provides for the
sinking of about 3,000 deep tubewells in the North-West Region, and an IDA
supported Shallow Tubewells Project, for sinking 10,000 shallow depth (about
100 ft) wells in the North-West, is now being processed; other shallow tube-
well programs are being financed by the Asian Development Bank, Japan and
Germany. There is also a nationwide drive to spread the use of hand pumps;
about 570,000 of these will be financed by USAID, IDA and UNICEF during the
next five years.
2.12      Overall performance in minor irrigation has been quite satisfactory.
However, serious problems remain in utilization and maintenance of irrigation
facilities. Pump/well utilization is only 15 to 20 ac per cusec compared
to the potential of 25 to 30 ac per cusec. The under-utilization is partly
due to the poor siting of pumps and tubewells under political pressures and
partly a reflection of difficulties in organizing and managing groups com-
prising a large number of farmers. The maintenance problems are due to
inadequate workshop facilities, poorly trained field staff, and lack of in-
centives for farmers and BADC mechanics to keep equipment in good working
condition. Heavy subsidies on irrigation by the Government are also a con-
tributing factor to inefficient utilization and poor maintenance by the users
of irrigation facilities. Under the recently approved Rural Development I
Project (Credit 631-BD), a major effort is being made to improve the pump/well
allocation mechanisms and to facilitate the organization and management of
pump groups. If successful, the Rural Development I Project procedures would
be implemented on a nationwide basis. For improving the maintenance of irri-
gation facilities, the UNDP/ILO has recently approved a project for training
field staff at various levels. Support for improvement of repair and main-
tenance facilities is included in the proposed Shallow Tubewells Project.
IDA Support to Irrigation
2.13      IDA has financed two large scale water control projects in Bangladesh
both of which have been completed: Dacca Demra (Credit 1-PAK, 1961, US$1.0 M)
provides flood protection for about 10,000 ac and irrigation for about 15,000
ac, and Brahmaputra Embankment (Credit 39-PAK, 1963, US$5.0 M) which gives
partial flood protection for a gross area of about 580,000 ac. IDA has also
financed 3,000 low-lift pump sets (Credit 76-PAK, 1967, US$4.1 M) and 3,800
pump engines (Credit 117-PAK, 1968, US$3.5 M) to provide irrigation for about
275,000 ac. Currently, IDA is financing: construction of the Chandpur II



-5-
Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD, 1972, US$13.0 M), to provide flood protec-
tion for about 140,000 ac and irrigation for about 60,000 ac; the Northwest
Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD, 1972, US$14.0 M), to provide irrigation from
groundwater for about 180,000 ac; the Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit 542-BD,
1975, US$27.0 M) to provide irrigation for about 140,000 ac by low-lift pumping,
and the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD, 1976, US$22.0 M) for
providing irrigation, flood control and drainage to 46,000 ac.
2.14      The implementation of all four irrigation projects, currently in
execution, is behind schedule. The NW Tubewells Project and the Chandpur II
Irrigation Project are also expected to have substantial cost overruns. Rea-
sons for the slippage of the implementation schedules are primarily adminis-
trative and include difficulties in: hiring of consultants; appointment of
project staff; release of budgetary allocations; approval of contracts, and
coordination among the various implementing agencies. The cost overruns are
partly due to implementation delays and accompanying inflationary pressures,
and partly due to weak financial management and unforeseen technical problems.
The Association and the Government have been discussing specific measures to
improve project execution and as a result the Government has already taken a
number of steps to remedy the most serious bottlenecks. Among the steps are
increased decentralization in project approval and in procurement and con-
tracting, and simplification of procedures for release of budgetary funds.
The IDA and GOB have also given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and
supervision of the various projects in order to identify and resolve the
potential problems at an early stage. Also, in preparation and appraisal of
future projects, including the one under consideration, particular efforts
are being made to incorporate the lessons from the previous operations and to
resolve the more serious issues prior to the project approval. These steps
will hopefully be reflected in accelerated project implementation in the future.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area is located around the confluence of the Muhuri
and Feni rivers in southeast Bangladesh about 90 mi from Dacca. It comprises
parts of Sonagazi, Feni and Chhagalnaya thanas of the Noakhali District and
part of Mirsarai thana of the Chittagong District (Map 11532). The project
would cover a gross areas of 99,000 ac and a net agricultural area of 67,000
ac. Of the estimated 410,000 people living in the project area, about 300,000
belong to farm households. The nearest town is Feni at the western project
boundary. It is a subdivisional headquarters with relatively good trans-
portation and marketing facilities.
Climate
3.02      The project area has three main seasons:  the monsoon from June to
October, during which about 80% of annual rainfall is recorded; the dry season



- 6 -
from November to February, which has very little rainfall and the lowest tem-
peratures and humidities, and the pre-monsoon season from March to May, which
has the highest temperatures and evaporation rates with occasional heavy rain
storms. Cyclones, originating in the Bay of Bengal in April-May and September-
November, periodically cause severe damage in the coastal areas.
3.03      Mean monthly temperatures vary between 67 F in January and 84 0F
in May.  The mean diurnal range in temperatures is about 20 0F in the dry
season and 9 F during the monsoon. Relative humidity ranges from 75% to 90%.
Mean annual rainfall is about 110 inches. Evaporation ranges from 2 to 3
inches in December to 5 to 6 inches in April (Annex 2).
Topography and Soils
3.04      The area lies mostly in the lower part of the Muhuri Valley.  The
major portion consists of a wide, flat, flood plain, ranging in elevation
from about 13 ft to 18 ft above mean sea level. The flood plain is intersec-
ted by the Muhuri, Selonia and Feni rivers and by numerous khals. Soils are
deep, older alluvium and consist mainly of silt and clay. Soil permeability
is low to moderate and is excellent for rice production. The area is season-
ally flooded but on most of the area flooding seldom exceeds 2 ft to 3 ft and
is thus suitable for cultivation of transplanted rice varieties during the wet
season. During the dry season, irrigation is essential for rice cultivation.
Vegetable and winter (rabi) crops are cultivated with residual soil moisture
after harvest of the wet season rice crop. The many rivers and khals make the
area ideally suited for irrigation by low-lift pumps. This has already been
adopted by farmers to a limited extent. The main constraint to expansion of
irrigation is availability of fresh water during the dry season.
Water Resources
3.05      The Muhuri, Selonia, and Feni rivers drain a total catchment area
of 1,120 sq mi. The source of the Muhuri and Selonia rivers and most of their
tributaries is in the Tripura Hills in India which surround the upper valley.
The Feni River forms a portion of the boundary between Bangladesh and India.
About half of the project area's drainage basin is in India. The three major
rivers drain within a quarter-mile of each other into a tidal inlet of the
Sandwip Channel in the Bay of Bengal (Map 11533). The principal rivers and
khals within the project boundaries not only fluctuate with the tides in the
Sandwip Channel, but also allow the intrusion of seawater. This limits the
periods when farmers can irrigate by low-lift pumping. At the proposed re-
gulator site, the average annual discharge from the drainage basin is 3,280
cusec. February and March are the months of minimum flow with about 700 cusec
in a typical year. Discharge is generally highest in July with an average
exceeding 10,000 cusec.
Existing Irrigation and Drainage
3.06      Present irrigation in the project area is primarily by low-lift
pumps. These are rented by BADC to farmers organized under the Thana Irrigation
Program (TIP). The BADC collects the pumps at the end of the dry season for



maintenance and storage during the monsoon. It is also responsible for the
supply of fuel and lubricants. The TIP is responsible for organizing pump
groups, providing pump operators, and collecting fuel and rental charges.
Some 330 pumps are currently fielded in the project area, with an additional
230 outside the project area but within the Muhuri-Selonia-Feni Basin in
Bangladesh. Without improvements proposed under the project it is unlikely
that these numbers of pumps could increase since pump utilization is already
limited by water availability and sea water intrusion. Of the pumps within
the project area, 200 provide an adequate supply of water to an average of
37 ac per pump, while 130 pumps provide only a partial supply to an average
of 42 ac per pump.
3.07      Flood protection and drainage in the project area is rudimentary.
Khals convey excess water to the principal rivers, which are backed up during
high tides. Large areas are flooded several times during a monsoon season.
About 5,000 ac are liable to prolonged flooding over 3 ft. One extreme flood,
in October 1968, covered 85% of the project area. In order to cope with the
problem, a low coastal embankment with flap-gate drainage structures has been
extended from the Little Feni River regulator, west of the project area, to the
right bank of the Feni River (Map 11533). This system not only aids flood
drainage but also prevents overland sea water flow from the Sandwip Channel.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.08      The project area has an estimated population of about 410,000,
including about 45,000 farm households averaging 6.6 members per household,
and about 25,000 families of landless wage earners and non-agricultural
property owners.
3.09      The lower Muhuri basin is one of the most densely populated areas
in Bangladesh (2,600 persons per sq mi compared to the national average of
1,500). Consequently, farms are smaller and households larger than in most
other parts of the country. At present, a minimum area of about 1.5 ac is
required to support an average farm family and, as shown below, about 70%
of all households in the project area are either landless or operate farms
smaller than 1.5 ac.
/a                                 % of Cultivated        Average
Farm Size-a             % of Holdings              Area            Family Size
Less than 0.25 ac             35                      2                4.1
0.25 - 1.00 ac               25                      12                5.0
1.00 - 2.50 ac               23                      31                7.1
2.50 - 5.00 ac                13                     38                8.4
Over 5 ac                      4                     17               10.5
/a   Operated area (owned and rented).



- 8 -
3.10      The average farm size is 1.9 ac of which 1.6 ac are cultivated, and
the remaining 0.3 is farmstead, ditches and foot paths. Most holdings are
heavily fragmented with plot sizes averaging only about 0.3 ac. About 90%
of the land is farmer-owned, but only about half the area is owner operated.
This is because farmers exchange land under a variety of arrangements such
as share cropping, cash lease, or long-term rental. Share cropping, the most
common type of lease, is usually based on a 50-50 sharing of the crop with
expenses shared on a variable basis between the land owner and the share
cropper. In the case of irrigated land, there is an increasing tendency that
the share cropper pay all crop production costs plus a fixed rent (in kind)
to the owner. Less than 1% of the farms are tenant operated.
Agricultural Production
3.11      Rice is by far the most important crop in the project area and
accounts for about 90% of the cropped area. There are four crops of rice --
aus, broadcast aman (B. aman), transplant aman (T. aman), and boro. Aus, a
crop with a short growth period, is usually broadcast (B. aus) with the early
rains in March/April and harvested in July/August. Aman, the main crop, is
either broadcast (B. aman) or transplanted (T. aman), depending on flood
depths and water availability. The B. aman, which has a 220 to 250 day growth
period and may elongate up to 15 ft depending on the depth of flooding during
the monsoon, is sown about the same time as aus, and is harvested in November/
December. The T. aman with a 150 day growth period, is sown in June/July,
transplanted a month later and harvested in November/December. Boro, which
is cultivated with irrigation, is sown in December/January, transplanted one
month later and harvested in May/June.
3.12      Aus is grown on 42,000 ac, B. aman on 2,000 ac, T. aman on 49,000
ac and boro on 15,000 ac. Local variety rice still predominates with high
yielding varieties (HYV) accounting for only 18,000 ac, or 17% of the area
under rice cultivation. The local variety yields are relatively low: 0.5
tons of paddy per ac for aus and B. aman; 0.6 tons per ac for T. aman, and
0.8 tons per ac for boro. The HYV aman and boro give yields of 0.9 and 1.3
tons per ac, respectively.
3.13      During the dry season, about 13,000 ac of pulses, oilseeds, and
vegetables are grown utilizing residual soil moisture on land fallow after
harvesting the aus crop.
3.14      The present cropped area is about 121,000 ac which, on a net culti-
vable area of 67,000 ac, gives an overall cropping intensity of 181% (the
average for Bangladesh is 135%). Total production is: 73,000 tons of paddy;
2,000 tons of pulses and oilseeds; and 11,000 tons of vegetables. Present and
projected farming practices, cropping patterns and yields are detailed in
Annex 9.



-9-
Transportation and Marketing
3.15      The transportation network within the project area is only skeletal.
The Dacca-Chittagong railroad cuts through the area and a branch from Feni to
Selonia serves its northern part. The main highway from Dacca to Chittagong,
which is presently being upgraded and widened with IDA assistance (Credit
408-BD), is the only paved all-weather road in the area. Other roads are
generally usable only during the dry season. The Muhuri and Feni rivers and
Kalidas Khal (the outlet of the Selonia River) are used throughout the year
for both cargo and passenger transport. During the monsoon season, the large
network of khals forms a widespread water transportation system, thereby per-
mitting access to most villages.
3.16      The farmers usually take their paddy by carry-pole, oxcart or boat
to the village market where it is bought by intermediary traders, who either
bring the paddy to the town markets for resale to wholesale dealers or have
it milled by local hullers for direct sale. There are about 200 licensed rice
hulling machines in the project area and an equal number of unlicensed hullers.
Many of the private dealers have small godowns (generally 10 to 20 tons capa-
city) for the storage of paddy and rice.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would provide irrigation, improved flood
control and drainage, and improved agricultural supporting services to
farmers in a net area of about 67,000 ac. The project would enable a
major increase in crop yields through the construction of facilities to
create favorable conditions for growing HYV rice.
Project Features
4.02      The main components of the project, details of which are given
in Annex 3, are as follows:
(a)  Coastal earthfill embankments and a dam across
the Feni River Channel, totaling 6.5 mi in length;
(b) A reinforced-concrete regulator structure equipped
with radial gates and flap gates;
(c) One major and 30 minor drainage structures equipped
with flap gates, and the improvement of an existing
drainage outlet;
(d) Improvement of 110 mi of natural khals and the ex-
cavation of 6 mi of new khals;



- 10 -
(e) Improvement of 9 mi of existing roads and the con-
struction of 9 mi of new roads for access to the
main project works;
(f) About 1,100 diesel-powered, 2 cusec low-lift pumps
to raise water from the khals to adjacent farm lands;
(g) Workshops, equipment, and vehicles for maintenance
of project works and low-lift pumps;
(h) Offices, housing and vehicles for project staff
responsible for supervising project implementation;
(i) Transportation (field vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles),
and agricultural equipment (hand sprayers, grain dryers)
to facilitate agricultural extension and supporting
services; and
(j)  Consultants to assist the Government in project
implementation and in evaluation of the project
impact.
4.03      Irrigation facilities provided by the project would expand the
boro rice area from the present 15,000 ac to about 50,000 ac. In the wet
season, project works would reduce flooding and allow supplementary irriga-
tion resulting in a shift from local varieties to HYVs on 10,000 ac. By ex-
cluding overland sea water intrusion, 3,000 ac presently marginal and largely
uncropped, would be brought to high productivity. About 1,100 lowlift pumps
powered by 5-7 hp diesel engines 1/, each serving an average area of 45 ac,
would irrigate the area from an extensive network of natural and project-
improved khals. These khals along with the principal rivers, would serve both
reservoir (storage) and canal (conveyance) functions with a minimum of water
losses. Low-lift pumping has already been adopted on a large scale in areas
of Bangladesh where the rivers and khals carry fresh water throughout the dry
season. The reservoir formed by the regulator would provide a permanent
source of fresh water, the level of which would fluctuate only gradually with-
in a range of 4.0 ft. The rivers would be free of tidal fluctuations and the
resulting salinity problem. Khal excavation would make water available and
small-vessel navigation possible throughout the area. The regulator would
also improve flood drainage by freeing waterways from tidal surges. This
would allow discharge from the project area when tidal levels in the Sandwip
Channel drop below reservoir level. The regulator would be designed to with-
stand cyclones. However, full seaward protection of the embankment against
cyclones and tidal waves is not economically justifiable, and in the economic
and financial analyses suitable provisions have been made to cover possible
rehabilitation needs for these works (Annex 13).
1/   Most of the 330 units currently in the project area will become due for
replacement during the project implementation period.



- 11 -
4.04      On-Farm Water Distribution.  Farmers in the project area, and
elsewhere in Bangladesh where low-lift pumps are used, have shown an ability
to adopt irrigation with only little additional on-farm improvement works.
Paddy fields are already leveled and, in most cases, are fully or partially
diked. Water distribution is from plot-to-plot with some small ditches
constructed by the farmers. Difficulties are often the result of improper
location of the pump or inadequate pump group management. Pump groups would
be formed in the project area under the direction of IRDP, which would be
assisted in pump siting and distribution layout by WDB and the project con-
sultants. Pump groups would complete their own water distribution systems
within areas served by each low-lift pump. The IRDP would conduct training
programs in improved irrigation practices for selected members from each
pump group at the Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDC).
Water Quality, Supply and Demand
4.05      Quality.  The rivers entering the project area provide good
quality waters well suited for irrigation. Construction of the proposed
regulator and cross-dam would prevent the intrusion of sea water into the
project area and create a fresh water reservoir which would improve
living conditions for the people and enhance agricultural production.
4.06      Supply.  The project would depend primarily upon stream flow for
irrigation water supply since the live storage provided by the reservoir
would be only 25,600 ac-ft. This is equivalent to six inches over the net
cropped area. Stream flow is lowest during February and March which are the
months of highest crop demand. Present average inflow to the project area
during February and March is about 700 cusec. With due allowance for future
withdrawals upstream, the average inflow is expected to decline to 580 cusec.
About half the drainage basin is located upstream in India. The project would
not have any adverse effects on either dry or wet season flows in the Indian
part of the Feni, Muhuri and Selonia rivers. Siltation of the reservoir,
upon which the project depends for both water storage and distribution, is
projected to take at least 40 years.
4.07      Demand.  Theoretical irrigation requirements for the boro crop
would increase from four inches in January to 11 inches in February, then
decline to four inches in May (Annex 4). The total irrigation requirement
would be 38 inches or some 160,000 ac-ft. The peak water demand in February
would be 45,000 ac-ft requiring a withdrawal of 2,220 cusec for 8 to 9 hrs per
day. A reservoir operation study indicated that at least 85% of theoretical
irrigation requirements would be met nine years out of ten (Annex 4). This
deficiency is minimal in view of the built-in safety factor in the theore-
tical water demand calculation and the residual moisture retained by soils.
The reduction in crop yields resulting from such deficiencies would be mini-
mal. This has been taken into consideration in evaluating yields and project
benefits.
Engineering Design
4.08      The project feasibility study effectively covers the planning and
preliminary design for the engineering works and the agricultural development



- 12 -
plan. Detailed design of the main project structures -- the Feni regulator
and the cross-dam -- requires additional foundation exploration, and this
study is currently in progress under an extension of the consultant's contract
financed from IDA Credit 409-BD. The extended contract also included the de-
sign and preparation of contract documents for the regulator, and the gates
and hoists. Construction drawings for the regulator and the detailed designs
for other project works would be carried out by consultants to be hired by
WDB for assistance in project implementation (para 5.05).
Construction Schedule
4.09      Bidding documents for the regulator works and the gate equipment
were completed in April, 1976 and bids were received in September 1976.
Construction is scheduled to begin in October 1977 and is expected to be
completed in five years. Partial project operation would commence in the
1981-82 dry season with full operations to follow a year later (Annex 5).
Land acquisition and access road construction has already commenced.
Cost Estimates
4.10      Total project costs are estimated at US$52.0 M equivalent, including
US$9.8 M in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$18.4 M or 44% of the total excluding taxes and duties. Estimates are based
on preliminary designs, with unit prices at April 1977 levels. The prices are
based upon costs prevailing in Bangladesh and they take into account the bids
received for the regulator and gates tender. Physical contingencies of 10-15%
have been applied to civil works costs and 5-10% to equipment and vehicle costs.
Projected price increases due to inflation have been applied to estimated
annual expenditures at the following percentage rates:
Years
Item                    1977-79    1980-82
Civil works                  9          8
Equipment and
Consulting Services         7.5        7
The resulting expected price increases amount to US$10.2 M, or about 20% of
the estimated total project cost.
4.11      Estimated project costs, presented in greater detail in Annex 6,
are summarized below:



- 13 -
Percent
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total /a  of Total
----(Taka million----    ----(US$ million)----
I. Land
Acquisition      7.5       -        7.5       0.50    -         0.50       1
II. Civil Works
Regulator &
Related
Works         197.0      118.0  315.0       13.13    7.87   21.00        40
Cross Dam &
Embankments   55.6        26.1   81.7        3.71    1.74    5.45        10
Channel Im-
provements    24.0         2.0   26.0        1.60    0.13    1.73         3
Drainage
Structures      7.0        2.5    9.5        0.47    0.16    0.63         1
O&M Facilities  3.0         1.0    4.0        0.20    0.07    0.27         1
Sub-Total    286.6       149.6  436.2       19.11    9.97   29.08       56
III.   Equipment &
Vehicles
Low-Lift Pumps 13.0        20.0   33.0        0.87    1.33    2.20         4
Vehicles &
Agric. Equip.  3.3         2.7    6.0        0.22    0.18    0.40         1
O&M Facilities  0.6         1.4    2.0        0.04    0.09    0.13         -
Sub-Total      16.9       24.1   41.0        1.13    1.60    2.73         5
IV.   Consulting
Services       30.0       25.0   55.0        2.00    1.67    3.67         7
V.   Management &
Admin.         23.4        -      23.4       1.56      -       1.56       3
Basic Cost   364.4       198.7  563.1       24.30   13.24   37.54        72
VI.   Physical Con-
tingencies    40.5        22.9   63.4        2.70    1.53    4.23         8
VII.   Price
Contingen-
cies           99.1       54.4  153.5        6.60    3.63   10.23        20
Total        504.0 /b  276.0  780.0 /b  33.60 /c 18.40  52.00 /c 100
/a   Discrepancies in currency conversion due to rounding.
/b   Includes Tk 147 M in taxes and duties.
/c   Includes US$9.80 M equivalent in taxes and duties.



- 14 -
Financing
4.12      With assistance from the Bank Group, GOB has secured a credit of
Canadian $9 M (about US$8.6 M) from the Government of Canada for financing
part of the project costs. The proposed IDA credit of US$21 M, together with
the Canadian Credit, would finance the full foreign exchange costs and about
47% of the estimated local costs or 70% of the total project cost net of taxes
and duties. The GOB would contribute the remaining US$22.4 M through annual
budget appropriations. The Canadian credit would be on standard IDA terms and
would be administered by IDA on behalf of the Government of Canada. Assurances
have been obtained that the Government would establish a project revolving fund
and that it would replenish the fund on the first of each month to maintain a
balance adequate to cover the estimated expenditures for the following three
months. A draft Project Proforma (PP) has already been prepared. Approval
of the PP by the Executive Commitee of the National Economic Council and an
initial contribution of Tk 3.0 M to the project revolving fund by GOB would
be conditions of credit effectiveness. Another condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit is the fulfillment of conditions of effectivess of the Canadian
Credit agreement.
Procurement and Contracts
4.13      Equipment and vehicles (estimated cost net of taxes and contingen-
cies, US$2.5 M) would be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in evaluation
of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each, which are
not practical for international tendering, would be purchased through normal
Government procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases would be
limited to a total of US$200,000.
4.14      The major civil works contract for construction of the main gated
regulator, estimated to cost about US$11.2 M (net of taxes and contingencies)
was tendered for international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A total of six responsive bids were received of which one
was from a foreign contractor. None of the responsive bidders was adjudged
to be fully qualified for the job. To avoid further delays in project im-
plementation and to strengthen the domestic construction industry, GOB, in
consultation with IDA, undertook a detailed review of the technical, mana-
gerial and financial capabilities of the lowest evaluated bidder, Messrs.
Sikder & Co., a domestic contractor. Improvements necessary to increase the
contractor's capabilities and to ensure satisfactory project implementation
were agreed. Among the improvements would be hiring by Messrs. Sikder & Co.,
of a 4-man expatriate technical assistance team for help during project im-
plementation. The preliminary negotiations with the contractor have already
been completed and the final award would be made following approval of the
Canadian and IDA credits. Signing of the contract between WDB and Messrs.
Sikder & Co., on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a con-
dition of credit effectiveness.
4.15      International competitive bidding would not be practical for the
other civil works (channel excavation, drainage structures, cross dam &
embankments, access roads, transmission line, and offices and houses), with



- 15 -
an estimated cost of US$8.0 M (net of taxes and contingencies). These works
are relatively small, simple in nature, diverse in location, construction
would be seasonal, and they lend themselves to labor-intensive construction.
For these works, contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Construction equipment and imported materials (estimated cost net of taxes
and duties, US$4.0 M) for these works would however be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursement
4.16      Disbursements from the proposed aid package would be made for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory
or 50% of other local expenditures for equipment and vehicles; (b) 100%
of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures on civil works; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for consult-
ing services. No disbursements would be made against: the costs of land
acquisition; staff salaries; overhead expenses; and taxes and duties on
directly imported goods and services. Disbursement from the aid package would
be pro-rated to the Canadian and IDA Credits -- approximately 29% to the
Canadian Credit and rest to the IDA credit. It is expected that the dis-
bursements would be completed by June 30, 1983, approximately one year after
project completion. Any undisbursed funds from the IDA Credit would be can-
celled unless an alternative use was approved by IDA. The categories to be
financed, the allocation of the proposed credits, and expenditure percentages
to be disbursed under each category are summarized in Annex 7. Estimated
expenditures and disbursement schedules are also shown in Annex 7. Provision
has been made to reimburse the Government for up to US$250,000 for expendi-
tures made on staff housing and site preparation after November 1, 1975.
Accounts and Audit
4.17      Assurances have been obtained that GOB would cause WDB, BADC and
other departments and agencies responsible for carrying out any part of the
project, to prepare and maintain project accounts and financial statements
in accordance with sound accounting practices, and that it would employ
independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit these project accounts and
that certified copies of audited accounts and of the auditor's report would
be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
4.18      The overall environmental effects of the project are expected to
be beneficial. Public health should improve because of the increased avail-
ability of fresh water on a year-round basis. Schistosomiasis is not present
in Bangladesh. In remaining salt-blighted land along the coast, the proj-
ect will enhance environmental conditions. Existing fisheries in the area
are small and the project would have little adverse effect on them. Major
carp, the most important specie, can generally be expected to stay in the
area even during floodwater discharge through the proposed regulator. The
reservoir would have the potential to become an important area for fish pro-
duction if the planned pilot fish culture facilities on the Halda River are
developed and fingerlings of major carp become available. Investigations of



- 16 -
the fish habitat in the Muhuri River including the potential effects of the
proposed project and the prospects for future development are being financed
under the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      The Water Development Board (WDB), under MFWP would have overall
responsibility for management and execution of the project works. The WDB
would be directly responsible for project preparation, design and construction
of all civil works. Responsibility for procurement and distribution of low-
lift pumps would rest with BADC. The IRDP would be responsible for the
formation of farmers' pump groups and their integration into the Thana Cen-
tral Cooperatives Association (TCCA) structure (Annex 8). The Ministry of
Agriculture would be responsible for strengthening extension services to
the farmers.
5.02      In order to ensure coordination between the various departments and
agencies responsible for project implementation, a Project Implementation Com-
mittee (PIC) has been established. The PIC is to be chaired by the Project
Director and consists of senior officers of the participating agencies and
District administration officers. The Project Director would be a senior WDB
official. Problems not resolved at this level would be referred to the Cen-
tral Evaluation Committee (CEC). The CEC was formed for the Barisal Project
(Credit 542-BD) by a Government order dated December 13, 1974 to periodically
review progress and problems on IDA-financed water development projects and
would function also for this project. The members of the committee are the
Secretaries of the various ministries concerned with project implementation
and the Chief, Flocd Control and Water Resources Division, Planning Commis-
sion. Joint secretary, MFWP is secretary of the committee. The Project
Director has already been appointed, the members of the PIC designated, and
the project has been included in the CEC's portfolio.
5.03      As noted above, the PIC/CEC management concept was introduced on
the Barisal Project. It was also designated by MFWP to be adopted on the
Chandpur (Credit 340-BD) and Karnafuli Projects (Credit 605-BD). However,
experience to-date on these projects has shown that, while the concept is via-
ble and has resulted in some improvements in inter-agency cooperation, the
dominant role of WDB with overall managerial and financial control has greatly
restricted the anticipated benefits of this system of inter-agency coordina-
tion. WDB management is still very construction oriented with little regard
for the key agricultural inputs essential for irrigation development. Staff
assigned for other agencies to work with WDB on these projects still believe
their prime responsibility is to their own organization and the required proj-
ect cooperation has not developed. IDA is currently reviewing with GOB the
role of WDB in irrigation project development and the problem of poor coordi-
nation among the various agencies. GOB, from its own studies, is fully aware
of the shortcomings of WDB and it is expected that alternative organizational



- 17 -
arrangement for multi-sectoral projects, will be developed. Both IDA and GOB
have agreed that as and when new arrangements are fornulated, IDA would examine
the same and would be prepared to consider amending the Credit Agreement to
facilitate the introduction of revised organizational arrangements.
5.04      Annual Work Programs.  Annual programs, to be prepared by the Project
Director in consultation with the PIC before each construction season, would
detail the activities and works to be implemented by each agency. Assurances
have been obtained from the GOB that the Project Director would prepare annual
work programs -- supported by maps, detailed description, and cost estimates
of physical works to be executed. The programs would be sent to IDA, by August
31 of each year, for review and comment.
Consulting Services
5.05      The Government would retain a consulting firm, acceptable to IDA,
to assist WDB, its Project Officer and the other agencies responsible for
project implementation. The consultant would have the major responsibility
for the preparation of work programs, designs, contract documents, and O&M
manuals and the supervision of construction. A project manager, administrative
officer, and field engineer would be maintained in Bangladesh throughout the
construction period. They would be supported, as necessary, by a structural
engineer, hydrologist, soils engineer, mechanical engineer, electrical
engineer and procurement advisor both in Bangladesh and the consultant's home
office. Support staff for the consultant would be provided by WDB. Prelimin-
ary negotiations with a prospective consulting firm (International Engineering
Co., Inc., USA) have already been completed. In preparing proposals for the
assignment, the consultant was advised to give full consideration to utilizing
technical skills available in Bangladesh -- such as using Bengalee specialists
or local consulting firms under sub-contracts. Due to WDB's limited experience
with structures like the main regulator, it is estimated that a total of about
600 man-months of consulting services, of which about 250 would be expatriate,
would be required. Signing of the contract with the consulting firm, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.06      Monitoring of the project progress would be through quarterly and
annual progress reports prepared by the concerned staff of the various imple-
menting agencies. Reporting formats for such reports would be finalized by the
Project Director with assistance from the project consultants (para 5.05). The
reports would include all relevant data on physical and financial progress of
the project together with reasons for deviations, if any, from the targets set
under annual work programs (para 5.04). The PIC would review the progress re-
ports and assisted by the consultants revise the future work program as neces-
sary. Following review by the PIC consolidated quarterly and annual reports
would be promptly sent to IDA.
5.07      The main objectives of the evaluation studies would be to estimate
the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project as well as the
socio-economic characteristics of the project beneficiaries. The data for



- 18 -
evaluation would be obtained through a few selected in-depth interviews in
the project area as well as through canvassing representative samples of
project beneficiaries. A benchmark survey would be conducted about one
year before project completion to establish the pre-project situation.
Two follow-up surveys would be conducted after completion of the project
works -- the first after one year and the second after three years. The
evaluation studies and surveys would be undertaken by well qualified local
consulting firms or research institutions selected in consultation with IDA.
Operation and Maintenance
5.08       The WDB would be responsible for O&M of the regulator,
for maintenance of khals, cross Lam and all embankments. The
annual 0 & M cost is estimated at Tk 5.0 M. The BADC would be responsible for
the provision of fuel and maintenance facilities for the low-lift pumps.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that: (a) sufficient funds
would be made available at all times to operate and maintain all facilities in
accordance with sound engineering standards, and (b) the Project Director
would be responsible for preparation of detailed manuals specifying project
O&M procedures. These manuals would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment within three years of the signing of the Credit Agreement.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.09      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural re-
search and extension, and, through BADC, for procurement and distribution
of agricultural inputs in the project area, while the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives is responsible for the Inte-
grated Rural Development Program (IRDP), cooperatives, and the Thana Irri-
gation Program (TIP) (Annex 8).
5.10      Agricultural Research.  The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI), which was established in 1970 and works in close cooperation with
the International Rice Research Institute, Los Banos, Philippines, is re-
sponsible for research on various aspects of rice improvement and production,
and for rice production training. The BRRI and its substations are adequately
staffed with qualified personnel and their progress of work has been satisfac-
tory. The project would draw on the services and facilities of BRRI, including
the Institution's sub-station of Comilla located about 40 mi north of the
project area.
5.11      Agricultural Extension Services.  The Directorate of Agriculture
(Extension and Management) in the Ministry of Agriculture maintains ex-
tension agents at both the thana and union levels. The Union Agricultural
Assistants (UAAs), an average of ten per thana, are the basic field exten-
sion workers. Their work is supervised by Thana Agriculture Officers (TAO).
As there is a vital need to strengthen agricultural extension, the Govern-
ment plans to replace the TAOs who are mostly diploma holders, with college
graduate Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) to ensure higher technical compe-
tence. It also plans to extend extension services to the village level by
appointing a minimum of two Village Extension Agents (VEAs), to replace the



- 19 -
present one UAA, in each Union. IDA-financed Rural Training Project (Credit
621-BD) would help to produce more trained personnel for posting as VEA. IDA
is also proposing to finance an Extension and Research Project (EARP) in the
NW region for strengthening these services to the farmers. It is expected
that EARP would be a model for improvement of extension service on a country-
wide basis. The credit would provide funds for procurement of additional
jeeps, motorcycles and bicycles to improve training and extension services to
the farmers in the project area. The extension service improvements for the
project area would be consistent with, and eventually integrated in the
national program for strengthening of the agricultural extension system.
5.12      Seed.  The BADC would be responsible for multiplying and distribu-
ting HYV seeds. Seed multiplication would be done on BADC farms and also on
approved private seed farms under the registered seed growers' scheme. Once
new varieties have been introduced to an area, farmers retain seed from
their previous harvest or obtain seed from their neighbors. However, to
sustain high yields, it would be necessary to periodically introduce fresh
seed. The IDA-financed Cereal Seed Project (Credit 410-BD, 1973) aims
to improve the quality of seed production. One of the proposed six seed
processing plants would be established at Chittagong, 80 mi southeast of
the project area. Distribution to farmers would be made through TCCA
cooperatives, and approved private dealers.
5.13      Fertilizer.  The BADC would also procure and distribute fertilizers
to TCCA and approved private dealers for distribution to farmers. This pro-
cedure has been quite satisfactory except in cases where BADC could not ob-
tain adequate supplies for distribution. The distribution of fertilizer in
the project area has increased from an average of 9 lb of nutrient per ac in
1965-66 to about 30 lb nutrient per ac at present. Fertilizer use is expected
to increase to an average of 100 lb nutrient per ac at full development in
1985. The Ashuganj Fertilizer Project (Credit 527-BD, 1975) aims to increase
the annual production of nitrogenous fertilizer by 528,000 tons of urea
(243,000 tons nutrient), and bilateral aid would help to increase the supply
of phosphate and potash fertilizer. A national study of the fertilizer dis-
tribution system is underway with financing from the First Technical Assist-
ance Credit (Credit 409-BD). It is envisaged that requirements for additional
storage facilities would be provided by bilateral sources and under a proposed
IDA fertilizer marketing and distribution project.
5.14      Other Inputs.  Agrochemicals and sprayers for plant protection are
now procured by BADC, and are distributed to farmers through TCCA and approved
dealers. The proposed credit would provide for procurement of sufficient
sprayers for the project area. Since harvesting generally takes place in the
pre-monsoon season with its thunder storm rains, rice production from the boro
crop in the project area is reduced by a lack of paddy drying facilities.
In view of the major increase in boro crop production generated by the project,
the proposed credit would provide funds for procurement of 30 simple diesel-
powered dryers to be operated by cooperatives and located in villages through-
out the area. These dryers would have sufficient capacity to ensure optimum
production from harvested paddy.



- 20 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns
6.01      Rice would continue to be the dominant crop after completion of the
project but there would be considerable changes in the relative importance of
the various rice crops. The reliable water supply would enable cultivation
of HYV boro in most areas in the dry season. Irrigated HYV boro produces
much higher and more stable yields than aus and B. aman and, since their
growing seasons overlap, the increase in HYV boro area would be accompanied
by a decrease in the area under aus and B. aman. The availability of supple-
mentary irrigation in the wet season would increase the comparative advantage
of HYV aman over local T. aman and cause a shift to HYV aman in part of the
project area.
6.02      With the availability of irrigation, there would be some increase in
the acreage under vegetables. On the whole, the cropping intensity would
increase from 181% to 192% (Annex 9). The present and projected future cropping
patterns are as follows:
Future without       Future with
Present       Project             Project
=----------- (thousand ac) ---------------
Paddy
Aus (Local)                    42           37                   8
Aus (HYV)                       -            5                  5
B. Aman                         2            2                  -
T. Aman (Local)                44           24                  14
T. Aman (HYV) - rainfed         5           20                  15
- irrigated      -            5                 20
Boro (Local)                    2            2                  -
Boro (HYV)                     13           13                 50
Subtotal               108          108                 112
Other Crops
Pulses oilseeds                 9            9                   9
Vegetables                      4            4                  8
Subtotal                13           13                  17
Total            121          121                129



- 21 -
Yields and Production
6.03      Estimated paddy yields at present and at full development in 1985
(3 year after project completion) are summarized below:
Future without       Future with
Present             Project           Project
mds/ac  tons/ac   mds/ac  tons/ac   mds/ac  tons/ac
Aus (local)                13      0.48       13      0.48       13      0.48
Aus (HYV)                   -        -        28      1.04       30      1.12
B. Aman                    13      0.48       13      0.48      -         -
T. Aman (Local)            17      0.63       20      0.75       22      0.82
T. Aman (HYV) - rainfed  25        0.93       30      1.12       32      1.19
-irrigated  -        -         35      1.30      37       1.38
Boro (Local)               22      0.82       22      0.82        -       -
Boro (HYV)                 35      1.31       40      1.49      42       1.57
These yields were projected assuming that fertilizer use in the project area
would increase from an aggregate 3,000 tons per year at present to about
12,500 ton per year at full development. Use of pesticides is projected to
increase to about 40 tons. Paddy production would increase from 73,000 tons
at present to 145,000 tons at full development (Annex 9).
Marketing
6.04      Because of the high population density, the Muhuri area presently
faces a foodgrain deficit of about 25% of total demand. 1/ The 72,000 ton
increase in paddy production would turn this deficit into a 20% surplus by
1985, even with the projected population increase. With prospects of con-
tinuing food shortages in Bangladesh for the foreseeable future, the ex-
pected surplus from the project area should find ready markets in food-
deficit areas of the country.
6.05      Although the project area is a net importer of rice, the volume
of internal sales is large (about 25,000 tons). Consequently, all chains
in the marketing system are fairly well developed. Since the area has
railway and paved highway access to the major urban centers (Dacca and
Chittagong), it is expected that the marketing system will readily keep
pace with increased rice production.
6.06      The hulling industry adapted efficiently to the increased demand
when HYV rice and pump irrigation were introduced in the late 1960s and
early 1970s. Presently, there are some 400 private hullers operating in
the area. These hullers typically have a capacity of about 10 md of paddy
per hour, which indicates that, at present, they are working far below capa-
city. Consequently, it is expected that the private sector will be quite
capable of handling the increased volume of paddy from the project.
1/   Based on an assumed per capita consumption of 16 oz per day.  (The aver-
age consumption in Bangladesh in the late 1960s was just below 16 oz.)



- 22 -
Prices
6.07      Prices for rice and farm inputs used in economic analysis are derived
from the Bank's projected 1985 world market prices expressed in 1977 constant
prices. Production of crops other than rice is relatively small and most of
the output is consumed locally. Projected prices for these products are
based on the historical ratios between their prices and the price of rice.
6.08      Based on a projected world market price of US$375 per ton fob
Bangkok for high grade rice (5% broken), the price for low to medium quality
rice (25%-35% broken) cif Chittagong is estimated at US$270-290 per ton. After
allowance for transport and handling, the equivalent farm gate price is Tk 93
per maund of aman paddy, which is the preferred variety. Boro and aus are
priced somewhat lower.
6.09      To reflect the protection provided by import restrictions and duties
in the economic analysis, a standard conversion factor of 0.75 1/ has been
used to convert the local cost element in various inputs and outputs. For
financial analysis, prices based on GOB's present procurement policies have
been used.. The assumption behind the projected prices used for financial
and economic analyses are discussed in Annex 10.
Farm Incomes
6.10      Income to farm households includes the net value of crops produced
on the farm and off-farm earnings from paddy processing, wage labor, and
fishing. Most of the rice is consumed on the farm but part of the production
from larger farms is sold. The high population density and complex land
tenancy arrangements have resulted in a wide variety of income levels in the
project area.
6.11      Present and projected farm budgets have been analyzed on the basis
of three representative farm sizes: 1.0 ac, 3.0 ac and 5.0 ac (Annex 11).
Only the value of crop production has been included as income in this analysis.
Off-farm incomes are discussed in para 6.12. The annual net income from
farming, including the imputed value of produce consumed on the farm (in 1977
prices), for the three representative farm types are:
Net Farm Income (Tk)
Future            Future
Farm Size   Present   Without Project   With Project
1.0       1,300          1,800             3,250
3.0       3,700          5,100             9,150
5.0       5,650          8,000            14,150
1/   i.e. a shadow exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 20 since standard conversion
factor = official exchange rate/shadow exchange rate.



- 23 -
In the derivation of these farm incomes, costs of hired labor and other inputs
except irrigation has been charged as production costs. The estimates for
the 3.0 ac farm are based on a cropping pattern that reflects the average for
the project area. A slightly higher intensity is assumed for the 1.0 ac
holding and a slightly lower intensity for the 5.0 ac holding.
6.12      Off-farm employment is substantial in the project area.  Families
with 1.0 ac holdings typically have off-farm incomes of about Tk 2,000 per
year. For these families, off-farm employment is a necessity since a mini-
mum holding of about 1.5 ac is required to support the average farm family.
A larger proportion of the members of the richer farm households have at
least some elementary education and, consequently, better employment oppor-
tunities are open to them. This, combined with the larger family sizes,
brings the off-farm income of the families holding 3.0 ac and 5.0 ac farms
up to Tk 3,000 and Tk 3,500, respectively. The total farm labor requirements
would increase about 30% under the project. For families holding 1.0 ac farms,
these increased opportunities to work on the farm would not to any noticeable
extent conflict with off-farm employment. Since the daily income from off-
farm employment for the larger farmers is higher than the cost of hiring
farm labor, requirements for these farms would be met by hired farm laborers.
Consequently, off-farm incomes would not decrease due to the project. The
total family income for the submarginal farmers (1.0 ac holding), small
farmers (3.0 ac holdings) and large farmers (5.0 ac holdings) would then
increase at least 40%, 50%, and 55%, respectively, under the project. These
increases are considered fully adequate for obtaining active participation
by the farmers in project activities.
Recovery of Costs
6.13      At a discount rate of 10% per annum, the present value of the proj-
ect construction costs 1/ and expected costs of major repairs is estimated to
be about Tk 353 M or about Tk 10,100 per irrigated ac. The O&M of the project
works would cost Tk 5 M per year or about Tk 140 per ac. In addition, the
annualized capital cost of low-lift pumps would amount to Tk 6,000 per pump
(about Tk 140 per ac) and the O&M cost to Tk 8,000 (about Tk 180 per ac).
Accordingly, the total annual cost for a low-lift pump would be Tk 320 per ac.
Assuming that water charges are introduced from Year Six of the project, full
cost recovery would require a total annual charge of Tk 2,120 per irrigated
ac -- Tk 1,660 for recovery of construction costs, Tk 140 for O&M of civil
works, Tk 140 for the capital cost of low-lift pumps and Tk 180 for the O&M
cost of low-lift pumps.
6.14      If GOB's present policies on irrigation water charges (Annex 11)
were to be applied to the Muhuri Project, the farmers in the area would pay a
total of about Tk 250 per irrigated ac -- Tk 70 (3% of the incremental gross
value of production) as charges on project civil works, and Tk 180 for the
O&M of lowlift pumps. The total charge would mean a cost recovery index of
12% and a benefit recovery index of 14%.
1/ All costs are net of taxes and duties and in constant 1977 prices.



- 24 -
6.15      An analysis of the farmers' ability to repay the project costs in-
dicates that on the basis of estimated "project rents", a reasonable upper
limit for the potential charges would be about the Tk 1,200 per irrigated ac
(Annex 11). Thus, while full cost recovery would be infeasible, there is a
scope for substantially higher charges than those in force at present.
6.16      Several alternative policies on water charges have been analyzed
in Annex 11.  Due to:   (a) low income levels in the project area; (b) his-
torically low level of water charges paid by the farmers; and (c) likeli-
hood of present low water charges continuing outside of the project area, it
is concluded that a reasonable policy would be to recover the full cost of
low-lift pumps and at least the O&M cost of the civil works, amounting to a
total of about Tk 460 per ac. This would represent a cost recovery index of
22%, benefit recovery index of 26% and a rent recovery index of 38%. Due to
administrative problems, it would not be feasible to have a progressive rate
structure. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) the Government would at
least recover all costs for 0 & M and replacement of low-lift pumps and the
0 & M for civil works; and (b) a separate account would be maintained for the
collected charges.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      During the past five years, Bangladesh has imported an average of
1.5 M tons of foodgrain annually. This severely restricts the resources
available for other essential imports. The primary national benefit from the
project would consequently be increased rice production and the resultant
foreign exchange savings. The population in the project area would benefit
directly from increased farm incomes and an increase in employment opportu-
nities in agriculture, transportation and marketing. The project would also
discourage migration to the already overcrowded urban areas of Dacca and
Chittagong.
Rice Production
7.02      The project would increase the irrigated area by 35,000 ac and make
irrigation more reliable for 15,000 ac presently under irrigation. This would
cause a major shift in the cropping patterns and increase the production of
milled rice by some 35,000 tons over what is projected for 1985 without the
project. This represents annual gross foreign exchange savings of about
US$9.8 M (in 1977 dollars) based on a projected rice price of US$280 per ton
cif Chittagong. After deducting foreign exchange costs of spares and replace-
ments, fuel, fertilizer, and pesticides, the net annual foreign exchange
savings attributable to the project would be about US$8.0 M.
Employment Opportunities
7.03      Increased production would result from the cultivation of high
yielding rice varieties and shifts in the cropping calendar, rather than more



- 25 -
intensive land use. Therefore, farm labor requirements in the area at full
development would increase by only about 45%. Over the same period, the
available agricultural labor force would increase from an estimated 115,000
in 1977 to about 133,000 in 1985, that is by about 16%. Annual field labor
requirements in the area presently total an estimated 7.5 M man-days or about
27% of the present labor supply, and would reach about 10.7 M, or about 33%
of the estimated supply at full development (Annex 12). The 27,000 landless
laborers presently supply about 1.2 M man-days of farm work and this amount
would double with the project.
7.04      The employment opportunities for landless laborers in marketing
and transport would also increase substantially as a result of the increased
rice production. The project would increase the marketed volume from about
25,000 tons at present to 65,000 tons, or by about 160%.
Income Distribution
7.05      Farms in the project area are smaller than in most other parts of
Bangladesh and family sizes are somewhat larger. Consequently, it is esti-
mated that the present average per capita income in the project area is only
about US$50 compared to the national average of US$70-75 1/. However, the
unbalanced income distribution in the project area means that about 70%
of the families have a per capita income of less than US$50 which is about the
minimum income necessary for subsistence in rural areas.
7.06      With the project, the net farm incomes in the project area would
typically increase by 30-40% the demand for hired labor would also increase
substantially and thereby create additional employment opportunities for land-
less laborers and submarginal farmers. Although, the overall income dis-
tribution will remain largely unchanged, the project will substantially reduce
the level of absolute poverty in the area. Allowing for the increased popula-
tion at full development in 1985, the proportion of below subsistence level
households would be reduced from 70% to less than 50%.
Economic Rate of Return
7.07      The project's rate of return is estimated to be about 16%  (Annex
13) based on the following assumptions:
(a) five-year construction period;
(b) full agricultural development is reached three years after
the completion of the project;
(c) projected 1985 world market prices in terms of 1977 dollars
for rice and fertilizers (see Annex 10);
(d) all farm labor is valued at about 55% of the peak market
wage (see Annex 12) and construction labor at the market
wage;
1/   These estimates are based on the foodgrain prices currently prevailing
in rural areas of Bangladesh.



- 26 -
(e) a standard conversion factor of 0.75 is used to reflect the
prevailing regime of import taxes and quotas.; and
(f) a 40-year project life.
Other important benefits, such as higher employment and income in trade
and industry based on agricultural production in the project area, were
not quantified.
7.08      The rates of return under different assumptions on costs, prices
and selected project features are:
(a)  completion delayed two years                    :       14%
(b)  increase in construction cost of 15%                    14%
(c)  decrease in the commodity prices of 15%        :        13%
(d)       (a)  +  (b)                                        12%
(e)       (a)  +  (b)  +  (c)                       :        10%
(f)  increase in cost of crop inputs of 15%         :        15%
(g)  increase in fuel and operating costs
of 25%                                         :        16%
(h)  reduction in net irrigated area
from 50,000 ac to 40,000 ac                  :        13%
(i) all farm labor valued at full
market wage                                           14%
(j)  standard conversion factor = 1.0               :        13%
(k)  standard conversion factor = 0.6                        18%
7.09      The project faces considerable risks.  The proposed regulator
structure is large in relation to similar works undertaken in Bangladesh
previously and local contractor capacity for executing large civil works
is limited. Moreover the pace of project implementation, especially in the
water resources sector in Bangladesh, has not been satisfactory, due in
large measure to organizational shortcomings and a lack of interagency co-
ordination. However measures--such as the provision of substantial assist-
ance to the BWDB and to the contractor to be engaged to undertake the major
civil works, and the setting up of an implementation organization that pro-
vides for interagency coordination--have been taken to mitigate possible
difficulties and remove potential bottlenecks to successful implementation.
As indicated above even if there were to be some slippage in project imple-
mentation or increase in project costs, the project would still be economic-
ally viable.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a) the Government would establish and, on the first of each
month, replenish a project revolving fund to maintain a
balance adequate to cover estimated expenditures for the
following three months (para. 4.12);



- 27 -
(b)  the WDB, BADC and other departments and agencies responsible
for carrying out any part of the project would prepare and
maintain separate project accounts and financial statements in
accordance with sound accounting practices, and independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would be employed to audit project
accounts which would be sent to IDA within six months
of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.17);
(c)  not later than August 31 each year, the Project Director
would prepare and submit to IDA, for review and comment,
annual work programs (para. 5.04);
(d)  sufficient funds would be made available at all times to
operate and maintain all project facilities in accordance
with sound engineering standards (para. 5.08);
(e)  the Project Director would prepare detailed operation and
maintenance procedure manuals and submit these to IDA, for
review and comment, within three years of the signing of
the Credit Agreement (para. 5.08);
(f)  the Government would recover all costs for O&M and re-
placement of low-lift pumps and the O&M for civil works
(para. 6.16); and
(g)  the Government would maintain a separate account for the
collected water charges (para. 6.16).
8.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)  the fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness of the
Canadian Credit Agreement (para 4.12);
(b)  the Government has approved the Project Proforma (PP)
(para. 4.12);
(c)  the Government has made an initial contribution of
Tk 3 M to the project revolving fund (para 4.12);
(d)  the WDB and Messrs. Sikder & Co. have signed the contract
for construction of the Feni Regulator on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.14); and
(e)  engineering consultants, acceptable to IDA, would have been appointed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.05).
8.03      With the above agreements and together with the Canadian Credit of
Canadian $9 M, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$21 M under standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the People's Republic
of Bangladesh.
May 31, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
1.        Bangladesh is predominantly agricultural.  The agriculture sector
accounts for as much as 60% of GDP, 75% of all employment and over 90% of
all exports. It has, however, been unable either to feed adequately the
country's rapidly increasing population or to provide gainful employment
to its largely unskilled and illiterate labor force. The major objectives
of the Bangladesh Government's (GOB) agricultural development efforts are to
achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural poor, and to
increase export earnings. The Government's strategy for development of the
sector emphasizes strengthening of rural institutions, improvement of farm
input supplies, better utilization of existing irrigation facilities and
further expansion of irrigation facilities through low cost, short gestation,
minor irrigation schemes.
Land Use and Production
2.        Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac
are under cultivation. According to official statistics, for the five year
period, 1970/71 - 1974/75, the annual cropped area averaged 30.3 M ac giving
a cropping intensity of about 135%. Rice -- by far the most important crop --
accounted for 80% of the cropped area; jute for 6% and a variety of other
crops such as pulses, oilseeds, wheat, sugarcane and vegetables for the re-
maining 14%. During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual
rate of about 2.5% and foodgrain production, at a rate of 2.4%. However,
both lagged behind the population growth rate of 2.8% and as a result food-
grain imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in 1960/61 to over 1.5 M
tons in 1969/70. A severe drought combined with the disruptions caused by
the 1971 civil strife resulted in a sharply reduced production in 1972/73 --
some 15% below the 1969/70 level -- necessitating food imports of 2.8 M tons.
Despite a substantial recovery, production in 1973/74 and 1974/75 remained
below the 1969/70 level. In 1975/76 due to favorable weather conditions,
improved availability of fertilizers and unusually high foodgrain prices in
1974/75, there was, however, a record foodgrain production of 13 M tons, which
exceeded the 1969/70 level by some 10%. Nonetheless, Bangladesh still had to
import about 1.5 M tons of foodgrains in 1975/76. Despite major emphasis by
the Government on achieving food self-sufficiency, substantial food imports
are likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
28



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Crops and Cropping Seasons
3.       Variations in topography, soils, flooding levels and the availability
of irrigation have resulted in the evolution of complex land use patterns and
cropping calendars. There are, for example, four different rice crops -- aus,
broadcast aman (B. aman), transplanted aman (T. aman) and boro. Aus is mainly
grown as a broadcast, rainfed crop on non-flooded to moderately flooded land,
sown in March-May and harvested in July-August. It accounts for about 30% of
rice acreage and 25% of production. Typically, aus is a low yield, high risk
crop. B. aman is sown at the same time as aus on low-lying lands, either
singly or mixed with aus, and is harvested mainly in November. It includes
varieties known as 'floating rice' which can elongate their stems with rising
flood levels. It accounts for about 20% of rice acreage and about 15% of
production. Like aus, it is a rainfed, low yielding and a high risk crop.
T. aman is the main rice crop in Bangladesh, accounting for about 40% of the
rice acreage and 45% of production. It is mainly transplanted in July-August
on highland or medium highland and harvested in November-December. Almost all
the crop is rainfed, but it is considerably better yielding and less risky
than aus and B. aman. Boro is the dry-season crop grown with irrigation or in
lowland areas which remain wet throughout the year. It is mainly transplanted
in January-February and harvested in April-May. It accounts for about 10%
of the rice acreage and 15% of the production. It is the highest yielding and
least risk-prone rice crop.
4.       Jute, the main export crop, is sown about the same time as aus paddy
and harvested in July-August. Pulses and oilseeds are winter or rabi crops.
These are sown in November-December and harvested in February-March. Temperate
zone vegetables such as cabbage, cauliflower and tomatoes, are also grown as
rabi crops, whereas tropical vegetables, such as brinjal, okra, gourds and
pumpkins are grown as kharif or wet season crops. Sugarcane is planted in
November and harvested more than a year later between December and March.
Constraints and Potential
5.        Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by the
following:
(a) scarcity of cultivable land -- practically all 22.5 M ac of
cultivable land are already under cultivation. Consequently,
any increases in production must come from more intensive
land use and yield improvements;
(b) limited potential of cutivable land -- large areas of land
are only single cropped due to: deep monsoon flooding
(especially in the north-east), shortness of the rainy
season (in the west), late recession of floodwater in
flood plain basins, low moisture-holding capacity of some
soils, and dry season salinity in areas near the coastline;
29



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(c) limited surface irrigation facilities -- surface water
resources in the dry season are barely enough to irrigate
10% of the cultivated area. Lack of suitable reservoir
sites makes it difficult to store rainy season surplus flows.
The limited surface water potential is already close to full
exploitation;
(d) climatic hazards -- severe floods, droughts, cyclonic
storms and erratic temperatures frequently cause serious
crop damage. The risk of crop loss due to these
factors, combined with the largely subsistence nature of
Bangladesh agriculture, makes it difficult to popularize
improved production technologies requiring the use of cash
inputs; and
(e) poor transportation and communications -- because of its
deltaic origin, Bangladesh is criss-crossed by numerous
rivers and channels. Transportation and communication
across these barriers is often inadequate, slow and
expensive.
6.        However, the above constraints can be overemphasized.  On the posi-
tive side, Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a
climate suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater resources
for dry season irrigation. Also, in recent years, the development of high-
yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice and wheat, suitable for cultivation in
large areas of Bangladesh even under rainfed conditions, has opened up the
prospects of substantial increases in production that can be brought about
quickly and inexpensively. Wide differences between the crop husbandry
practices of the "best" farmers and "average" farmers indicate that within
existing constraints, significant gains in production are possible with
little or no increase in cash requirements and risk. Much of the potential,
however, has remained undeveloped so far.
7.        The reasons for underdevelopment are primarily sociological and
institutional. There are some seven million farm households in Bangladesh,
90% of which cultivate 5 ac or less. Even "large" farmers in Bangladesh are
small by international standards. 1/ Hence to have any significant impact on
production, developmental programs must necessarily involve the participation
of millions of small farmers. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are hard work-
ing and receptive to proven innovations. However, their efforts have not been
complemented by adequate and timely supplies of farm inputs, relevant technical
advice, and suitable marketing, processing and storage facilities. The failure
of the various existing agencies and departments to fulfill these key functions
is due to weaknesses in planning as well as in implementation. Agricultural
1/ A typical large holding is 10 to 15 ac. It is estimated that currently
less than 20% of the cultivated area is in holdings of 10 ac or more.
30



ANNEX 1
Page 4
planning has generally been based on an extremely poor data base, inadequate
analysis, and very little feed-back from operating departments, resulting in
unrealistic targets, inflexible and uncoordinated programs, and unexpected
bottlenecks during implementation. On the implementation side, the weaknesses
lie in excessive centralization of decision-making and overly cumbersome admin-
istrative procedures. Implementation also suffers because of inadequately
trained field staff, unattractive staff salaries and benefits, and poorly
defined work responsibilities.
8.        Lately, the Government has shown increasing awareness of these prob-
lems and has taken a number of steps to overcome them. Among the steps are
increased decentralization in project approval and in procurement and contract-
ing, and simplification of procedures for release of budgetary funds. To
overcome the lack of trained field staff, Bangladesh is implementing several
training projects -- the important ones being the IDA-supported Agricultural
and Rural Training Project (Credit 621-BD, US$12.0 M), the Swedish Aid Agency
(SIDA)-sponsored training program for Cooperative staff and UNDP-assisted
training programs for extension staff and for workshop maintenance personnel.
As a follow-up to a comprehensive crop sector review by the Bank Group, GOB
has initiated a program for improving the effectiveness of the agricultural
extension services. Further support for the extension services is proposed
under an Extension and Research Project (EARP), appraised in November/December
1976 for possible financing by IDA. Also underway, with Bank Group assistance,
is a review of the organization, management and operations of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation (BADC), the
two agencies most deeply involved in the agricultural sector. A review of the
agricultural credit system is about to get underway with assistance from IDA
and ADB. GOB is also preparing a comprehensive plan for its rural development
activities and has requested IDA to organize and co-ordinate the various bila-
teral and multilateral agencies interested in supporting rural development
programs in Bangladesh.
May 1977
31



BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PJDJECT
Climatic Datal"
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May       June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.        Nov.    Dec.
NOAKHALI STATION (1958-1962)
Tenperature (F)
Mean of max. monthly           78.3    81.7    88.4    92.2    91.0    88.0    86.2    86.4    86.5          86.9      82.7    78.5
Mean                           66.7    70.4    78.3    83.6    84.3    83.1    82.0    82.3    82.1          81.2      74.1    77.2
Mean of min. monthly           55.2    59.2    68.2    76.0    77.5    78.3    77.8    78.1    77.6          75.4      65.6    57.2
Absolute maximum               86       91      98      104     105       94      93       91       93       93        9C       85
Absolute minimum               46       46      57       66      67       71      69       75       71       68        54       50
Relative Humidity (X)            78.5    77.1    76.3    78.8    81.5    86.7    88.2    89.1    87.9          85.6      81.1    81.5
Wind Velocity (mph)                0.54    1.33    1.40    2.91    5.40    4.60    5.86    4.83    2.59          1.46     0.50    1.09
Daylight (hrs/day)               10.9    11.4    12.0    12.7    13.3    13.6    13.4    13.0    12.3           11.7     11.1    10.7
Sunshine (Z of da -
light hr.)2                    86       82      76       75      67       41       40      41       49       67        B9       85
pan Evaporation (inches),
(1961-70)                       2.74    3.28    4.92    6.00    5.85    3.88    4.05    3.56    3.68           3.53     3.05    2.68
CHHAGALNAYA STATION (1902-1974)
Precipitation (inches)
Mean Monthly                     0.40    0.95    2.57    7.19   11.83   20.50   22.37   21.34   14.00         7.69      1.81      0.32
Minimum                          0       0        0       0        0.77    5.53    5.61    7.16    1.61        0.82      0       0
Lower quartile                  0        0        0.35    2.71    7.38   15.40   17.20   14.54    9.33         4.29      0       0
Median                           0       0.35    1.86    6.15   10.85   18.89   20.96   19.88   12.84          6.48      0.60    0
Upper quartile                  0.25    1.50    3.70   10.27   14.84   24.93   27.19   27.22   18.85    10.59            3.21    0
Maximum                         5.47    5.12   16.68   26.40   38.25   41.00   41.85   66.25   40.55    32.20            9.80    4.58
1/  Source:  Meteorclogical Department, Government of Bangladesh
2/  Estimated from Chittagong Station data for Noakhali Station.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
1.        The project would provide dry-season irrigation as well as sup-
plementary wet-season irrigation, to about 50,000 net ac. It would also
decrease the extent, depth and duration of flooding and prevent salt water
intrusion in the area. Project works would be designed and constructed over
a five-year period (Annex 5).
2.        Regulator.  The major feature of the project would be a reinforced
concrete regulator on the right bank of the mouth of the Feni River. This
would require about 37,000 cu yd of concrete and 1,400 tons of reinforcing
steel. The regulator would have 40 bays. Each bay would be furnished with a
radial gate on the upstream side and by a flap gate on the downstream side.
The radial gates would be operated by individual electrical hoists served by
a new eight-mile 33 kV transmission line and a substation. A standby diesel
generator would permit gate operation during emergency power outages. During
the dry season, the gates would remain closed thereby excluding salt water and
creating the project reservoir. During the wet season, as the reservoir rises
above normal pool elevation (12.5 ft MSL) the radial gates would be opened.
When tides fall below the pool level, the flap gates would open and allow
discharge of the river into the bay. When tidal levels exceed the reservoir
level, the flap gates would close thereby excluding the salt water and help-
ing in drainage. With the gates open, the regulator would pass the probable
maximum flood (peak inflow 167,000 cfs, peak outflow 78,000 cfs) at a maximum
reservoir elevation of 16.9 ft MSL. The regulator would be designed to with-
stand cyclones.
3.        For access during construction and for project operation and mainten-
ance, 9 mi of existing roads would be upgraded and another 9 mi of new roads
would be built. These roads would extend from the existing Chittagong-Comilla
Highway, down the east and west-bank areas of the reservoir to the cross-dam
and regulator. The main access road to the west bank has been partially con-
structed during the 1976/77 construction season.
4.        Construction of the regulator complex would be carried out under
four separate contracts: the improvement/construction of the access roads, the
excavation of the regulator channel, and the transmission line and substation
would be tendered locally in three separate contracts. The civil works for
the regulator and manufacturing and installation of gates, hoists and elec-
trical controls has already been tendered under international competitive
bidding procedures. GOB has reached agreement on the contract award and the
contract signing will take place after the credit approval.
33



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Embankments.  Coastal embankments (5 mi) in the project would
extend across the project area and link up with the existing coastal embank-
ment system. The crossdam (1.5 mi) across the mouth of the Feni River would
link these wing dikes and, with the regulator, create the project reservoir
(normal high pool elevation 12.5 ft, normal minimum pool elevation 8.5 ft,
live storage 25,600 ac-ft). Where necessary, as in the river-crossing section,
slopes would be protected, by riprap over a filter, against wave and tidal
action. Full seaward embankment protection against cyclones and tidal
waves is not economically justifiable, and in the project's economic and
financial analyses, a periodic replacement cost is included to cover re-
construction of these works after partial destruction (Annex 13). The total
volume of earthwork in embankments and the cross dam would be 60 M cu ft; some
1.4 M jute bags filled with soil cement would be required for slope protection.
Similar construction, including the dam closure section, has been successful-
ly executed by local forces and the work would be tendered locally.
6.        Channel Improvements.  In the project area, 110 mi of existing
channels would be improved and 5.7 mi of new channels excavated. Total
excavation would amount to some 124 M cu ft. As a result all channels would
be unobstructed and would have a maximum invert level 2.0 ft below minimum
normal pool level (elevation 8.5 ft MSL). This would permit local navigation
year-round and ensure adequate suction line submergence for low-lift pumps on
the channel banks. The resulting channel system would put all of the net
irrigable area (50,000 ac) within 0.75 mi of a dependable water supply.
7.        Drainage Structures.  Some 30 reinforced concrete drainage
structures with flap gates would aid in water control. In the project area,
some 3,000 gross acres lie below elevation 12.0 ft, that is, six inches
below normal high reservoir level and the drainage structures would prevent
the backflow of water from the reservoir into such areas. A large drainage
structure through the coastal embankment at Sonagazi Khal would serve the
same function as the regulator but on a smaller scale. An existing struc-
ture would be improved by the provision of flap gates and invert paving.
8.        Low-Lift Pumps.  Based on experience in Bangladesh, the project
would provide 2 cfs capacity pumps which, when operating for about eight hours
per day, would irrigate 40 to 50 ac. The pump lift from the channels would
seldom exceed 10 ft. Ideally for such discharge/lift conditions, an axial-
flow pump operated through a speed reduction gear by a 5-7-BHP diesel
engine would be most efficient. However, this size unit is not widely
manufactured, and efficient maintenance would be dependent on the import of
spare units and replacement parts. To date, all pump experience in Bangladesh
has been with heavier duty, and simpler, centrifugal pumps, and such pumps
are currently being both assembled and manufactured in the country. They
are generally designed for a head lift of 40 ft and operated by imported
16-BHP diesel engines. While maintenance can be carried out locally, the
capital cost of these units and their fuel consumption, in relation to
required duty, are unnecessarily high. Under the Chandpur II Irrigation
34



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Project, the Government and project consultants undertook a detailed review
of the low-lift pump technology in preparing designs and specifications
which aimed at: (a) a reasonable balance between efficiency and initial
cost, and (b) simplicity in design and fabrication to allow a wider choice
of suppliers, including local manufacturers. Following receipt of bids for
the Chandpur II Project, a centrifugal pump with air-cooled engine was
selected by GOB. Such a unit can meet the capacity requirement with an
engine of less than 5 hp. Similar units would be procured for this project.
9.        The low-lift pumps currently in use in the project areas were pro-
cured from a number of manufacturers (Indian, German, Japanese, British and
American) and the variety of types imposes an unnecessary burden on the
BADC maintenance workshops. Since most of these pump units would require
replacement during the project construction period, all existing pumps would
be returned to BADC (for use elsewhere, if practical) and replaced by the
standardized and more efficient pump unit to be provided under the project.
An estimated 1,100 units would service the project area.
10.       Operation, Maintenance, and Buildings.  The project would provide
workshops, equipment, vehicles, and buildings for the operation, maintenance,
and interim replacement and reconstruction of the project works. Project
headquarters facilities in the town of Feni and housing at the regulator for
operating staff would also be provided. For low-lift pumps thana and zonal
workshops serving the project areas would be improved and supplied with
additional machinery and hand tools as necessary.
11.       Vehicles and Agricultural Equipment.  Transport vehicles (4-wheel
drive jeeps, motor cycles and bicycles) would be provided to Ministry of
Agriculture and IRDP to facilitate agricultural extension and formation of
pump groups. Vehicles would also be provided to WDB for use in supervising
project implementation. Funds would be provided for procurement of about
30 simple diesel-powered dryers as well as about 100 pesticides sprayers for
sale to IRDP-TCCAs for custom work within the project area. Credit facilities
to TCCAs for purchase of these equipment would be arranged by IRDP through the
commercial banks.
12.       Consulting Services.  To assist WDB and the other agencies respons-
ible for implementation, services of a well-qualified consulting firm would
be provided. The consultant would have the major responsibility for the
preparation of work programs, designs, contract documents, and O&M manuals
the supervision of construction, and the planning and implementation of
extension services in the project area. A projects manager, administrative
officer, and field engineer would be maintained in Bangladesh throughout
the construction period. They would be supported, as necessary, by a structural
engineer, hydrologist, soils engineer, mechanical engineer, electrical engineer
and procurement advisor both in Bangladesh and the consultant's home office.
Support staff for the consultant would be provided by WDB. In light of WDB's
limited experience with structures like the main regulator, it is estimated
that a total of about 600 man-months of consulting services, of which about
250 would be expatriate, would be required. Preliminary negotiations with a
prospective consulting firm have already been completed.
May 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply and Demand
1.        The 1,124 sq mile Muhuri-Feni River Basin is about equally
divided between India and Bangladesh, and is subdivided as follows:
India        Bangladesh          Total
River Sub-Basin              (sq mi)        (sq mi)           (sq mi)
Selonia                       64               39              103
Muhuri, Upper                242               -               242
Lower                 62              122              184
Feni,   Upper                 70              245              315
Lower                138              113              251
Bakhtiar Hat                  -                29               29
TOTALS      576              548            1,124
Discharge measurements are available for a 13-year period at Parshuram gauging
station on the Muhuri River and for a four-year period at Kaliachari station
on the Feni River. The drainage areas above Parshuram and Kaliachari are
242 and 488 sq mi, respectively. A regression analysis correlating the
monthly flows at Parshuram and Kaliachari was done and the results extrapolated
to the whole drainage basin. The total run-off was estimated at 4.78 times
the Parshuram discharge. Utilizing this figure, the total water supply on
a monthly basis was calculated for the 13 years of measurements at Parshuram.
The results were used for a reservoir operation study.
2.        In addition to the 50,000 ac proposed to be irrigated after the
project, the present and projected future irrigated areas in India and
Bangladesh are as follows:
36



ANNEX 4
Page 2
India                     Bangladesh
River Sub-Basin           Present   Future             Present       Future
----------------- acres ----------------------
Selonia                   1,500      3,000              800          1,000
Muhuri, Upper              1,000     3,200
Lower             2,000      3,000            3,800          4,500
Feni,   Upper               500      1,000            1,200          3,500
Lower             1,000      2,000            1,000          1,500
TOTAL           6,000    12,200             6,800        10,500
The maximum future upstream irrigable area is, therefore, estimated at
22,700 ac.
3.        Theoretical monthly crop water requirements were determined on
the basis of the modified Penman indices for Comilla, multiplied by appro-
priate growth stage factors. Peak percolation was taken as 3.5 inches per
month, a conservatively high figure in view of the impermeable soils in the
area which are further tightened by plow-pan. Pre-planting and transplant-
ing requirements were taken as equivalent to six inches over the cropped
area. Rainfall was assumed 100% effective for the boro crop season. Lower-
quartile monthly rainfall records were adopted, as a further conservative
factor.   Water losses from low-lift pumping in Bangladesh are small due to
the compact service area (aver. 40 ac per pump) and the proximity of the
storage reservoir and water channels. In view of this, and the conservative
percolation and rainfall criteria, an overall efficiency of 85% was assumed.
The water requirements for the boro crop are detailed in Table 1. The total
water requirements for the project's 50,000 ac boro crop amounts to about
160,000 ac-ft. The estimated future simultaneous water withdrawals for
the projected 22,700 ac upstream is about 70,000 ac-ft.
4.        A reservoir operation study, based on the above criteria and the
available 13-year records, indicated the following theoretical water
deficiencies:
Deficiency (%)        0      0-5     5-10       10-15       15-20       25-30
No. of Years          5       2       2           2           0            2
The maximum water deficiency would reduce optimum paddy yields by about 10%
only.
May 1977
37



ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
BORO RICE WATER REQUIREMENTS (in inches)
Month                                 Jan.     Feb.    Mar.    Apr:        M              Total
Evaporation index                     2.0      2.7      4.2      4.9       5.3
Crop factor                          0.60      1.25     1.32     1.42      1.40
Evapotranspiration                   1.2       3.4      5.5      7.0       7.4            24.5
Preplanting and transplanting        2.0       4.0       -        -         -              6.0
Percolation                          0.1       1.8      3.5      3.5       3.5            12.4
Gross field requirements             3.3       9.2      9.0     10.5      10.9            42.9
Effective rainfall                     -        -       0.4      2.7       7.3            10.4
Net field requirements               3.3       9.2      8.6      7.8       3.6            32.5
Pumping requirements                 3.9      10.8     10.1      9.2      4.2             38.2
(A0



6                 OTHER WORKS -          -  FENI REGULATOR            I
~ _ W1 S =                      0 o 
__ _- I?   1   _
S 'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH                            Page 1
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Taxes &                              Taxes &
Local  Foreign  Duties    Total   Local  Foreign  Duties    Total
---  Taka Million  --------   --- US$ Million Equivalent  ---
1/
(a)  Land Acquisition             7.5        -        -        7.5    0.50         -        -       0.50
(b) Regulator & Related Works
Access Roads 2/            9.5      3.0      1.0       13.5    0.63    0.20    0.07         0.90
Regulator Channel
Excavation 3/           39.5    20.0    10.0        69.5    2.63    1.33    0.67          4.63
Regulator & Gates 4/    75.0    93.0    60.0         228.0    5.00    6.20    4.00         15.20
Transmission Lines 5/    1.2        2.0      0.8        4.0    0.08    0.14    0.05         0.27
Sub-total           125.2   118.0    71.8        315.0    8.34    7.87    4.79         21.00
(c) Cross Dam & Wing
Embankments
Stripping top soil 6/    0.2        0.1        -        0.3    0.01    0.01        -        0.02
Embankment Const.
& Compaction 7/          4.0     2.0      1.0        7.0    0.27    0.13    0.07          0.47
Dam Const. & Com-
paction 8/              24.0    11.0      5.0       40.0    1.60    0.73    0.33          2.66
Slope Protection &
Turfing 9/              12.0      8.0     3.0       23.0    0.80    0.53    0.20          1.53
River Diversion 10/        2.4      5.0     4.0       11.4    0.16    0.33    0.27          0.76
Sub-total            42.6    26.1    13.0         81.7    2.84    1.73    0.87          5.44
11/
(d)  Channel Improvements        23.0      2.0      1.0       26.0    1.53    0.13    0.07          1.73
12/
(e)  Drainage Structures          5.7      2.5      1.3        9.5    0.38    0.16    0.09          0.63
13/
(f)  Low-lift Pumps              10.0    20.0       3.0       33.0    0.67    1.33    0.20          2.20
(g) O&M Facilities
Civil Works &
Regulators               2.0      0.8     0.2         3.0    0.13    0.05    0.02         0.20
Low-lift Pumps 14/         0.9      1.6      0.5        3.0    0.06    0.11    0.03         0.20
Sub-total              2.9     2.4      0.7        6.0    0.19    0.16    0.05          0.40
(h) Vehicles & Agricultural
Equipment            1.5      2.7      1.8        6.0    0.10    0.18    0.12          0.40
(i)  Consulting Services -       15.0    25.0    15.0         55.0    1.00    1.67    1.00          3.67
(j) Management & Adminis-
tration  16/        23.4        -        -       23.4    1.56         -        -       1.56
(k)  Base Project Cost          256.8   198.7   107.6        563.1   17.12   13.25    7.17         37.54
(1)  Physical Contingenciesl7/28.0    22.9    12.5            63.4    1.87    1.53    0.83          4.23
(m)  Price Contingencies         72.2    54.4    26.9        153.5    4.81    3.63    1.79         10.23
(n)  Total Project Cost         357.0   276.0   147.0        780.0   23.80   18.40    9.80         52.00
40



ANNEX 6
Page 2
1/  Total of about 500 ac at an average price of Tk 15,000 per ac.
2/  Upgrading of 9 mi of existing roads at Tk 0.5 M/mi and construction of
9 mi of new roads at Tk 1.0 M/mi (comparable to those for pucca road
under RD-I Project).
3/  Assuming total excavation (excluding those under regulator contract)
to be 110 M cu-ft of which 35 M cu-ft would be done by self loading
scrapers at Tk 0.7/cu-ft and the rest by dredgers at Tk 0.6/cu-ft.
4/  Sikder bid of Tk 129 M adjusted to Tk 107 M to account for expected price
escalation covered in the bid price (Tk 10 M) and expected rental charges
on construction equipment to be procured under the project (Tk 12 M). To
this are added the cost of proposed assistance team (Tk 14 M), incremental cost
due to updating of material costs (Tk 17.0 M), incremental requirements of con-
struction equipment (Tk 24 M), workshop for maintenance of construction
equipment (Tk 6 M), and taxes and duties (Tk 60 M). Accordingly the total
base cost would be Tk 228 M. At project completion, estimated salvage value
of the construction equipment and the workshop for maintenance of construction
equipment would be about Tk 20 M (including taxes & duties).
5/  8 mi at Tk 0.5 M/mi.
6/  1.7 M sq-ft at Tk 180/1,000 sq-ft.
7/  10 M cu-ft at Tk 0.7/cu-ft.
8/  50 M cu-ft at Tk 0.8/cu-ft.
9/  1.4 M jute bags filled with soil cement at Tk 16 per bag and Tk 0.6 M for
turfing.
10/  500 tons of steel sheet piling at Tk 22,800/ton.  Salvage value Tk 6 M.
11/  120 M cu-ft of manual excavation at Tk 0.2/cu-ft and 4 M cu-ft of excava-
tion by dredging at Tk 0.5/cu-ft.
12/  One major structure at Tk 5.0 M and 30 minor structures at Tk 150,000 each.
13/  1,100 pumps (2 cusecs) at Tk 30,000 each.
14/  Construction/completion of 4 thana workshops and one zonal workshops for
BADC. Including cost of machinery, equipment and handtools, average cost
is assumed Tk 400,000 per thana workshop and Tk 1.4 M for the zonal workshop.
15/ 250 man-months of expatriate consultants at US$10,000 (net of taxes) per
month and 350 man-months of local consultants at Tk 5,000 per month. In
addition, a lump sum provision of Tk 0.75 M is made for evaluating the impact
of the project.
16/ 5% of items (a) - (h).
17/ 15% on (a) to (e) except on Regulator and Gates under (b) which has already
been tendered and hence 10% are more appropriate; 5% on (f); 15% on (g); and
10% on (h) and (i).                                                                41



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total                   - Fiscal Year ---------
Item                       Cost    1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Item  -- - ------- ---(Tk Million) -- 
(a)  Land Acquisition
Base Cost                    7.5       3.0        3.0        1.5         -           -
Physical Contingency         1.1       0.4        0.5        0.2         -           -
Price Contingency            1.1       0.2        0.5        0.4          -          -
Sub-total               9.7       3.6        4.0        2.1         -          -
(b)  Regulator & Related Works
Access Roads                13.5      13.5         -          -           -          -
Regulator Channel           69.5      10.4       20.8       20.8       17.5          -
Excavation
Regulator & Gates          228.0      53.5       58.0       53.0       53.0       10.5
Transmission Line            4.0        -         1.0        2.0        1.0          -
Base Cost             315.0      77.4       79.8       75.8       71.5       10.5
Physical Contingency        35.9       9.0        9.1        8.7        8.1         1.0
Price Contingency           74.3       5.3       13.3       21.7       28.6        5.4
Sub-total             425.2      91.7      102.2      106.2      108.2       16.9
(c)  Cross Dam & Wing
Embankments
Stripping Top Soil           6.3        -         0.1        0.1        0.1         -
Embankment Construction
& Compaction                7.0        -         1.4        2.1        2.1        1.4
Dam Construction &
Compaction                 40.0        -         6.0       14.0       14.0        6.0
Slope Protection &
Turfing                    23.0        -         3.5        8.0        8.0        3.5
River Diversion             11.4        -          -          -          -        11.4
Base Cost              81.7        -        11.0       24.2       24.2       22.3
Physical Contingency        12.3        -         1.7        3.6        3.6        3.4
Price Contingency           31.3        -         2.0        7.2       10.0       12.1
Sub-total            125.3         -        14.7       35.0       37.8       37.8
(d)  Channel Improvements
Base Cost                   26.0        -         1.3        7.8        9.1        7.8
Physical Contingency         3.9        -         0.2        1.2        1.3        1.2
Price Contingency           10.4        -         0.2        2.3        3.7        4.2
Sub-total             40.3        -         1.7       11.3       14.1       13.2
(e)  Drainage Structures
Base Cost                    9.5        -         1.9        3.0        3.0        1.6
Physical Contingency         1.4        -         0.3        0.4        0.5        0.2
Price Contingency            3.3        -         0.3        0.9        1.3        0.8
Sub-total             14.2        -         2.5        4.3        4.8        2.6
(f)  Low-Lift Pumps
Base Cost                   33.0        -          -          -        16.5       16.5
Physical Contingency         1.8        -          -          -         0.9        0.9
Price Contingency           11.6        -          -          -         5.0        6.6
Sub-total             46.4         -          -          -       22.4       24.0
42



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 2
BANGLADESH
NUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total   -- - -------- -- Fiscal Year -- --------
Item                       Cost    1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1979/81   1981/82
(Tk Million) -------
(g)  0 & M Facilities
Civil Works &
Regulator                   3.0         -        -          -          -         3.0
Low-Lift Pumps               3.0         -         -         -         1.5        1.5
Base Cost              6.0         -         -          -         1.5        4.5
Physical Contingency         0.9         -         -         -         0.2        0.7
Price Contingency            3.0         -         -         -         0.6        2.4
Sub-total              9.9         -         -          -         2.3        7.6
(h)  Vehicles & Agriculture
Equipment
Base Cost                    6.0        2.0       0.5       0.5        1.0        2.0
Physical Contingency         0.6        0.2        -        0.1        0.1        0.2
Price Contingency            1.4        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.3        0.8
Sub-total              8.0        2.3       0.6        0.7        1.4        3.0
(i)  Consulting Services
Base Cost                   55.0       11.0     13.8       13.7       11.0        5.5
Physical Contingency         5.5        1.1       1.4       1.4        1.1        0.5
Price Contingency           12.1        0.6      2.1        3.3        3.7        2.4
Sub-total             72.6       12.7      17.3       18.4       15.8        8.4
(j)  Management &
Administration
Base Cost                   23.4        3.4      5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0
Price Contingency            5.0        0.2      0.6        1.0        1.4        1.8
Sub-total             28.4        3.6       5.6        6.0        6.4        6.8
Total Project Cost         780.0      113.9    148.6      184.0      213.2      120.3
April 14, 1977
43



ANNEX 7
Table 2
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Aid Package
Amount Allocated
(US$ M Equivalent)
Category               Total       IDA   Canada          % to be Financed
I. Civil Works
(including construction
materials, equipment and
spares, and technical
assistance)
(a)  Regulator Contract      10.0       7.1      2.9          100% of foreign
expenditures and 50%
(b)  Other Works             10.0       7.1      2.9          of local expenditures.
II.  Materials, Equipment and                                         100% of foreign
Spares                                                          expenditures for
(other than those under                                         directly imported
category I)                     3.0       2.1      0.9         goods;  100% of ex-
factory cost of
locally manufactured
goods;  50% of local
expenditures for other
locally procured goods.
III.  Consulting Services              2.6       1.9       0.7         100% of foreign expen-
ditures and 70% of local
expenditures.
IV.  Unallocated                      4.0       2.8       1.2
Total            29.6      21.0      8.6
44



ANNEX 7
Table 3
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                         (US$ M Equivalent)
and Semester           Total                 IDA                 Canada
1978
1st                0.5                  0.35                0.15
2nd                2.0                  1.42                0.58
1979
1st                4.0                  2.84                1.16
2nd                7.0                  4.97                2.03
1980
1st               10.0                  7.09                2.91
2nd               14.0                  9.93                4.07
1981
1st               18.0                 12.77                5.23
2nd               21.5                15.25                 6.25
1982
1st               25.0                17.74                 7.26
2nd               27.5                19.50                 8.00
1983
1st               29.0                 20.57                8.43
2nd               29.6                 21.C0                8.60
45



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        The Ministry of the Rural Development, Cooperatives and Local
Government is responsible for the Integrated Rural Development Program
(IRDP), cooperatives and the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP). The Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for agricultural research and extension, procure-
ment and distribution of agricultural inputs, and installation, operation and
maintenance of low-lift pumps and tubewells. The success of any agriculturaL
and rural development work depends on effective coordination between these two
Ministries at all levels.
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP)
2.      IRDP is a program under the direct administrative control and super-
vision of the Min. LG&RD, for developing stable, self-reliant and disciplined
cooperatives in rural areas. The IRDP approach is fashioned after the two-
tiered cooperative system developed at the Comilla Academy during the 1960s.
At the village level, farmers (typically 30 to 100) are encouraged to join
together to form Village Agricultural Cooperative Societies (KSSs). In
turn, the KSSs within a thana (100 to 150) are federated into a Thana Central
Cooperative Association (TCCA). The TCCAs organize supply of technical
services (land use planning, training and extension), farm inputs and ma-
chinery, and production-linked supervised credit for the member KSSs. The
two-tiered approach enables retaining the village as the natural unit of
development while still exploiting economies of scale inherent in organiz-
ing and supervising the supply of inputs and services at the thana level.
The IRDP, started in 1970, presently covers 200 thanas i.e. about one-
half of the total 415 thanas in Bangladesh. All four project thanas are
covered by IRDP.
3.        The IRDP is headed by a Director-General, who is assisted by five
Directors, each looking after one of the five divisions, namely: Admini-
stration, Planning and Inspection; Training and Extension; Finance, Accounts
and Audit; Cooperatives, Credit and Marketing; and Statistics, Research,
Evaluation and Construction. In each District, there is a Project Director
assisted by a Deputy Project Director. In each thana, there is a Thana
Project Officer, assisted by a Deputy Project Officer and an Accountant.
Village Accountants and Inspectors for maintenance and supervision of KSS
finances are employed by TCCAs. According to existing regulations, there is
one Village Accountant for every six KSS, one Assistant Inspector for every
12 KSS, and one Inspector for every five Assistant Inspectors. The TCCAs and
KSSs are largely autonomous organizations, governed by the elected managing
46



ANNEX 8
Page 2
committees. Major responsibilities of the IRDP staff is to guide TCCAs in
rules and regulations of IRDP, advise them in technical matters, supervise
their financial affairs and assist them in bookkeeping and coordination of
various programs and services.
4.        Funds for IRDP operations are provided by GOB as grants through
annual budgetary appropriations. The accounts are required to be maintained
in a manner prescribed by GOB and are subject to audit by the Auditor General
of Bangladesh. It is envisaged that once fully established, TCCAs would
cover their operating expenses from commissions and service charges earned
in providing various services to the members. For the interim (typically
for five years after establishment), TCCAs are being partially supported by
annual grants of Tk 100,000 each from IRDP. The TCCA and KSS accounts are
kept in a manner prescribed by IRDP and are annually audited by IRDP staff.
5.        Compared to most other rural development programs in Bangladesh,
IRDP is a relatively strong program with better than average field staff and
good leadership. The IRDP Directorate is the main implementing agency for the
IDA-financed RD-I Project. A substantial amount of technical assistance for
improving IRDP's field operations is being provided under that project.
Further assistance is likely under future rural development projects pro-
posed for IDA financing. To assist the IRDP in organization and supervision
of irrigation pump groups in the project area, motorcycles and bicycles would
be provided to the IRDP/TCCA staff (Annex 3).
Extension Services
6.       Of the many organizations concerned with agricultural extension in
Bangladesh, the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) (DEM)
of the Ministry of Agriculture is the most important. The basic extension
workers of the DEM are the Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs); there is one
post of UAA in each of the 4,333 unions of the country. These UAAs are ad-
ministered by five levels of senior officers:
No. of
Level          Posts            Agricultural Officer in Charge
National            1              Director of Agriculture (Extension
and Management) (DA)
Regional            4              Regional Director of Agriculture
(RDA)
District            9              District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
Sub-Division       74              Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officer
(SDAO)
Thana             517              Thana Agricultural Officer (TAO)
47



ANNEX 8
Page 3
7.       GOB has recently started to modify this pattern.  The posts of
SDAOs are being phased out while new posts have been created at district,
thana and union levels. District Extension Officers (DEOs) are being
posted in the districts; they are better qualified than the DAO's who
they will in fact now supervise. Similarly, agricultural graduates are
now being recruited as Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) to supervise the
TAOs. Finally, the Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) are being re-
placed by better qualified Village Extension Assistants (VEAs). Only a
few DEO, TEO and VEA posts have been created so far but GOB intends to
establish these eventually in all the districts, thanas and unions of the
country.
8.        The extension service has been largely ineffective so far because:
(a) its programs tend to be obsolete and diffuse, seldom focusing on speci-
fically attainable objectives; (b) the technical advice given by extension
workers often lags behind practical research findings; (c) the staff is
poorly trained and handicapped by a lack of transportation facilities,
housing and training materials; and (d) extension workers are often used
by other agencies for administrative work, such as the census, as well as
statistical reporting.
9.       The activities of DEM are being supported by the Agricultural In-
formation Service (AIS), a separate unit within the Ministry of Agriculture.
AIS organizes a daily broadcast program for farmers and also operates mobile
units and prepares exhibits and pamphlets. Its efficiency has likewise been
hampered by lack of staff, equipment and funds.
10.      Because of the weakness of DEM, the practice has developed for
other agencies involved in agricultural development to create their own ex-
tension services. Even within the Ministry of Agriculture, jute has its own
extension service, under DEM. This extension service, involving about 2,500
Jute Extension Agents (JEAs), advises farmers on cultural practices; it
is also concerned with credit and input supply, farmers' organizations and
jute marketing. The numerous Development Boards (Water, Horticulture,
Cotton, Tobacco) and some 19 voluntary organizations all have their own
extension wings. These various extension schemes cover the same areas as DEM
staff, causing unnecessary duplication and, at times, providing contradictory
advice to the farmers.
11.       During the past years, in recognition of the importance of an ef-
fective extension service, the Government took a number of steps to strengthen
it. Among them are the progressive in-service training of graduates at the
thana level and the introduction of the "Training and Visit" system on a
national basis. Further reorganization and strengthening of the agricultural
extension services in the NW region, along the lines successfully adopted in
several Bank Group-supported projects in South Asia, would be the primary
objective of the proposed Extension and Research Project (EARP). It is ex-
pected that the EARP would eventually be replicated over the whole of Bangladesh.
Funds for supply of vehicles and extension equipment to support the agricultural
extension in the project thanas during the intervening period are included
under the project.
48



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Agricultural Research
12.      The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) is responsible for
research on various aspects of rice improvement and production, and for
training extension staff in rice production technology. The Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) deals with development of crops such
as wheat, pulses and oilseeds; it also carries out field trials on all crops,
including rice varieties. The Soil Fertility Institute is a department of
BARI mostly concerned with fertility trials. Separate organizations exist
for research on jute, cotton, tobacco and sugarcane; the Bangladesh Agri-
cultural University (Mymensingh) also is involved in agricultural research.
Research coordination is the responsiblity of the newly established Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council (BARC).
13.       So far BRRI has been concentrating on screening, selecting and
field testing materials supplied by IRRI, while paying increasing attention
on developing new varieties including crosses between the exotic and local
materials. The high yielding varieties of rice (HYV) that have been re-
leased include IR-8, IR-5, IR-20 (Irrisail), Purbachi, BRRI-1 (Chandina)
and BRRI-2 (Mala) which are all suitable for the project area (Table 1).
14.       Four substations for rice research have been set up to supplement
the research activities at the main BRRI station in Joydepur in order to
make it possible to select and test varieties under different climatic and
hydrologic conditions. One of the substations is located at Comilla about
40 miles north of the project area. It has a 92 ac field, two research
officers, one farm superintendent and several field assistants.
15.      Both BRRI and BARI have concentrated on establishing their new
central stations at Joydebpur. Adaptive research in substations has been
rather neglected.   Research on the economics of crop production has also
not been sufficiently emphasized. As a result, the recommendations given
by the institutes are not specific to the various agro-ecological zones;
they may not even be financially optimal for the farmers. It is expected
that the proposed EARP would substantially improve the quality of adaptive
research in Bangladesh.
Inputs Supply
16.      Fertilizer.  BADC procures fertilizers, locally manufactured or
imported, and distributes them to thana depots. Private traders purchase
them from these BADC depots and sell them to farmers at government-fixed
prices. Fertilizer demand has tripled over the last decade. BADC's own
storage capacity has lagged behind and a recent USAID project will finance
the construction of additional thana and intermediary godowns.
17.       In the past, farmers have been reluctant to use high dosages of
fertilizer on rice and other crops. The local varieties of rice are not
very responsibLe to fertilizer application and are susceptible to lodging
with higher fertilizer dosage. Farmers also frequently risk losing their
49



ANNEX 8
Page 5
investment on wet season rice (aus and aman) due to flood, drought or pests.
However, with the introduction of high-yielding rice varieties which are
responsive to fertilizer, farmers are now well aware of the benefits of
using higher dosages of fertilizer on HYV rice. Annual fertilizer require-
ments in the project area would rise from about 3,000 tons at present to
10,000 tons at full development. The cost of fertilizer to the farmers
is currently subsidized by the Government, however GOB aims at elimi-
nating the subsidy completely during the next few years. As the increased
use will be on HYV rice, it is expected that elimination of subsidy will not
adversely affect fertilizer use.
l18.     Plant Protection.  BADC is responsible for procurement of pesti-
cides and equipment for its application. The Plant Protection Directorate
(PPD) in the Ministry of Agriculture was, until 1976, in charge of storage
and distribution to farmers. It was also responsible for training farmers
in plant protection. PPD has now been merged with DEM but the amalgamaton
of staff and functions is not fully effective. GOB is studying the possi-
bility of separating the commercial operation of pesticides and equipment
distribution from the extension function in plant protection by handing
over the former to the private sector.
19.      Major rice pests are the stemborer, leafhopper, army worm, rice
hispa, leadfolder and rice mealy bug, of which the first two frequently
cause severe crop damage. So far, the damage caused by disease is less
serious than that from pests. Pesticides are sold at subsidized prices
through TCCA and private dealers approved by BADC.
20.      Seeds.  BADC is in charge of procurement, multiplication and
distribution of HYV seeds. Seed multiplication is done on BADC farms and
also on approved private seed farms. Seed of HYV rice may be imported
occasionally by BADC for distribution to farmers. But, in general, HYV
rice seed is multiplied locally on BADC farms and by private growers who
are approved by BADC under a Registered Growers Schemes. Farmers usually
retain seed from the previous harvest or obtain seed from their negighbors,
but may occasionally obtain fresh seed from BADC through TCCA and UAA to
introduce new varieties or to sustain high yields. Generally, BADC seed has
been low in quantity, poor in quality and irregular in supply. The ongoing
IDA supported Cereal Seed Project (Credit 410-BD) will improve the situation
by providing farm machinery and processing facilities and by setting up a
quality control organization.
Agricultural Credit
21.      About 85% of agricultural credit is from non-institutional sources
(money-lenders, traders, friends and relatives). The main sources of insti-
tutional agricultural credit are: (a) the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB); (b)
the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BJSB), through its Central Cooperative
Banks and Traditional Krishi Samabaya Samities (KSS) or village cooperatives
and Union Cooperative Multi-purpose Societies; and, (c) the commercial banks
50



ANNEX 8
Page 6
through IRDP cooperative societies (IRDP-TCCA/KSSs). Although BJSB provides
both short-term and medium-term loans, its loans are mostly used for crop
production inputs. The BKB advances mostly medium-term loans to individual
farmers for financing larger investments such as STWs, draft animals and
agricultural implements. Both BKB and BJSB have an unsatisfactory record;
loans are often misused, the repayment record is poor and the beneficiaries
are mostly larger farmers. Commercial bank (mostly Sonali Bank) involvement
in agricultural credit started only in 1973. Although Sonali Bank's perform-
ance through IRDP has been good (annual repayment rates average 80%), the
success of such an involvement is constrained by the limited coverage
in providing agricultural credit.
22.      The agricultural credit situation was the subject of a Bank Review
Mission in 1974. Further review is underway with assistance from the Bank
and the Asian Development Bank. Recommendations from the latter review
would form the basis for discussions with GOB on the reorganization and
strengthening of the agricultural credit system.
May 1977
51



BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Some New High Yielding Rice Varieties
31
2/       Maturity        Height        Yield          Grain          Table
Name       Season           (days)          (           (md/ac)          Type         gmality                          Additional Remarks
IR-5         Aman             140            110           40            Medium         Good            Highest yielding aman released so far, but has to be
transplanted in early June because of low cold
resistance when temperature drops in October and
November. Little acceptance by the farmers, since it
did not readily fit into rotations.
IR-8         Bora!            170            100           45             Coarse         Fair           Cold sensitive, photo insensitive, medium resistance to
(Aus)          (140)                                                                       sheath blight but susceptible to other diseases & pests.4/
IR-20        Aman           120-135          110           40             Msdium/    Very Good          Fair drought and cold tolerance, mildly photosensitive,
(Irrisail)                                                                 Fine                           resistant to bacterial blight, and medium resistance to
leaf streak and stem borer.
IR-442       Aman           140-150        125-150         35             Medium/       Good            Fair drought tolerance, non-cold tolerant, non-
(late aus)                                                     Fine                           photosensitive, reaction to pests and disease not fully
assessed, can resist flood up to 5 feet and be totally
submerged for six days.
BRRI-1       (Boro)/          (150)           85           40             Medium        Good             Poor drought tolerance, cold resistant, photo insensitive,
(Chandina)     Auls             130                                                                       resistant bacterial blight and medium resistant stem borer.
Water requirements about 157 lower than IR-8.
BRRI-2       (Boro)/          (150)        115-120         40             Medium      Very Good          Similar to BRRI-1, but faster initial growth rate   The
(Mala)       Aus              130                                                                        first  WYV suitable for sue.
BRRI-3       Boro           160-170         80-85          40             Medium        Good             Drought tolerant photo insensitive, cold sensitive,
Aus              130           90-95         40                                            resistant to bacterial blight and root rots, moderately
(Aman)          (140)           (100)        (45)                                           resistant to leaf streak, stem borer.  Wide flexibility
in transplanting time (December-August).
purbachi       Boro/             150             90          35             Coarse      Very Good          Poor drought tolerance, cold susceptible, photo insensitive,
(Chinese)      (Aus)           (130)                                                                       extremely disease and pest suscept ble.
Notes:  1/  other varieties are undergoing pre-release trials.
2/  Secondary season within brackets.
3!  Estimated long-term average on farms.  They take into account the effects of cyclones, floods and other natural disasters.                            X13
4/ Bacterial blight, sheath blight, leaf streak, root rots and stem borer - wben not mentioned very susceptible.                                          t 00



ANNEX 9
Page I
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
General
1.        The present cropped area is about 121,000 ac which, on a net
cultivable area of 67,000 ac, gives a cropping intensity of 181%, which is
considerably higher than the national average of 135%. Rice accounts for
about 90% of the cropped area; minor crops such as pulses, oilseeds and
vegetables make up the remaining 10%.
Present Cropping Patterns and Production
2.        Cropping calendars are shown in Figure 1.  The present cropping
pattern is presented in Figure 2. The spread in rainfall over eight months
from March to October enables the farmers to practice double cropping on 82%
of the area (62% B. aus followed by T. aman or rabi crops, and 20% T. aman
followed by boro). The remaining 18% is single cropped. About 3% of the
project area is liable to prolonged flooding over 3 ft and is suitable only
for B. aman. Another 4% in undrained depressions has access to irrigation
and is used for a single crop of boro. The T. aman is the only crop on
about 10% of the area. During the aus season from April to July, 67% oif the
land is fully covered by crops and 9% is completely fallow while the remaining
24% is under crops for one-third of the season and is fallow for two-th:irds of
the season. During the aman season from August to November, about 80% of the
land is fully covered by crops, 4% is deeply flooded, and 16% is fallow for
about two thirds of the season. But during the boro or rabi season from
December to March, only 42% of the land is fully covered with crops whereas
the remaining 58% is completely fallow.
3.        High yielding rice varieties (HYV) account for only 18,000 ac or
17% of the cropped area under rice and local varieties for 90,000 ac. Because
of uncertain rains, disease, limited use of fertilizer, and high degrees of
lodging, yields of local aus and aman are low - about 13 md of paddy per ac
for aus and B. aman and 17 md for T. aman. These may be compared with HYV
yields of 25 md of paddy per ac from rainfed T. aman of the recently intro-
duced IR-20 variety. Without reliable supplementary irrigation, farmers are
reluctant to invest much in fertilizer and pesticides for transplanted aman,
both local and HYV, since this crop often suffers from drought during flower-
ing and ripening. Lack of proper flood control and drainage also hampers
the expansion of dwarf HYV aman. The boro crop suffers fewer natural hazards
53



ANNEX 9
Page 2
but is dependent upon a reliable water supply. Consequently, it is reliant
on efficient servicing of the pumps, as well as on adequate maintenance of
the farm distribution system and the availability of cash to buy diesel fuel.
Tall local boro which is irrigated by the traditional bucket system gives an
average yield of 22 md of paddy per ac. This may be compared with the average
HYV boro yield of 35-40 md per ac from IR-8. The present overall yield of paddy
in the project area is estimated at 18.0 md per ac or 0.67 ton per ac.
4.        Present paddy production in the project area is estimated at about
73,000 tons, most of which is produced during the wet season. There has been
no significant increase of wet season rice production in the last five years,
but during that period, dry season rice production increased from 2,000
to 19,000 tons. The reason for this was the introduction of HYV boro rice
along with rapid expansion of low-lift pump irrigation.
5.        Of the three rice crops, the aman crop is the most important, since
it accounts for 47% of the acreage and 46% of the production of rice in the
project area. It has, however, only an average paddy yield of 18 md per ac
at present. Since local varieties of T. aman are not very responsive to
fertilizer application, only 0.2, 0.1 and 0.05 md per ac of urea, TSP and
muriate of potash, respectively, are presently used for these varieties.
Even smaller amounts are used for local aus. The HYV varieties which are
very responsive to fertilizer application are usually given much higher
dosages. The area presently sprayed by pesticides is limited and is probably
less than 2% of the total cropped area in the wet season.
Future Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
6.        Increased irrigation from the project would enable expansion of
boro rice cultivation in the dry season from 15,000 to 50,000 ac. The culti-
vation of HYV boro (primarily IR-8) would however replace cultivation of
aus or B. aman, since the harvesting of this variety generally cannot be
completed in time to allow the next planting before early rains. The HYV
varieties would be grown for the entire boro crop and for 70% of the T. aman
crop (in areas not likely to be flooded by more than 1 ft).
7.        With an assured water supply, improved farm management, an adequate
supply of inputs, expanded use of HYV seed, an improved extension service, and
improved drainage, crop yields are projected to increase over the three year
development period (ninth year of the project) as shown below.
54



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Yield (md/ac)
Future         Future
without         with
Crop                            Present      Project        Project
Aus (local)                          13          13             13
Aus (HYV)                             -         28              30
B. Aman                              13         13               -
T. Aman (local)                      17         20              22
T. Aman (HYV) rainfed                25         30              32
T. Aman (HYV) irrigated               -         35              37
Boro (local)                        22          22               -
Boro (HYV)                           35         40              42
Pulses & Oilseeds                     6          7               7
Vegetables                          75          90             100
The projected yields are derived from those presently achieved under irri-
gation in the project area and in the Noakhali and Chittagong Districts.
8.        The future cropped areas and production are given in Table 1.  The
expected cropping pattern is presented in Figure 3. The projected cropped
area is 129,000 ac which, on a net cultivated area of 67,000 ac, gives a
cropping intensity of 192%. Rice will continue to dominate accounting for
87% of the cropped area. The minor crops would make up the remaining 13%
(pulses and oilseeds 7%, and vegetables 6%). The most significant change
would be the increase in boro area from 14% to 45% and the corresponding
decrease in aus and B. aman area from 41% to 7%.
9.        At full development, total paddy production would be 145,000 tons.
Of this, about 54% would be produced from boro in the dry season and the
remaining 46% in the wet season.
10.       In evaluating the project, it has been assumed that IR-8 boro crop
would expand at the expense of B. aus and B. aman. This is a conservative
assumption since it is quite possible that Chandina which has a shorter life
period than IR-8 (Annex 8, Table 1), will replace IR-8 to some extent and this
will make it possible to raise a crop of aus or vegetables on part of this
land during the aus season.
May 1977
55



ANNEX 9
Table 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present & Estimated Future Production
Production
Area('000 ac)         Yield (mds/ac)         (1000 tons)
Crop                         P_     W      W       P      W      W      P       IWL
Paddy
Aus (local)                     42    37    8         13    13    13       20.4   17.9    3.9
Aus (HYV)                       -      5    5         -      28    30       -       5.2    5.6
B. Aman                            2      2    -        13    13    -         1.0    1.0
T. Aman (local)                   44    24   14         17    20    22       27.9   17.9   11.5
T. Aman (HYV, rainfed)             5    20   15         25    30    32        4.7   22.4   17.9
T. Aman (HYV, irrigated )         -       5   20        -      35    37       -       6.5   27.6
Boro (local)                       2      2    -        22    22    -         1.6    1.6    -
Boro (HYV)                        13    13   50         35    40    42       17.0   19.4   78.4
Subtotal Paddy              108   108  112         18    23    35       72.6   91.9  144.9
Other Crops
Pulses & Oilseeds                9     9    9          6     7      7       2       2.4    2.4
Vegetables                       4     4    8         75    90   100       11.2   13.4   29.9
Total All Crops             121   121  129
Net Cultivated Area               67    67   67
Cropping Intensity (%)           181   181  193
1/ P = Present, W = Future without Project, W = Future with Project.
56



ANNEX 9
Figure 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Cultivated Area
AUS SEASON                   AMAN SEASON                BORO/RABI SEASON
1 t A    m      a    n~~~~~~ma (HYV,//z;g t                   alIo
Boro T
60~~own  n Favsigatallovveplc   ih rae
50
U)
Cl)
30Fallow
10   ~ ~ .BR.  us//j                Flo
30 7' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5



ANNEX 9
Figue 2
un                                 BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Future Cultivated Area with Project
AUS SEASON                      AMAN SEASON                   BORO/RABI SEASON
67    >,       x<xxx               x                                                 :             :
BR. Aus (Local)                      Fallow
60 &> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > ~~~~Vegetables
Fallow
6(    0
.~~~~~~~~~R man
00
40
(HYVHY
20
ssVaWa0000 0{        |       ~~~Flooded (Fallovv)      B0|0       0W00 B0   000:-0
0
Apr.   May    Jun.    Jul.    Aug.    Sep.   Oct.    Nov.   Dec.    Jan.    Feb.   Mar.
NOTE: The cropping seasons have been simplified in this chart.
Sowing and harvesting actually take place with greater                                       58
overlap than shown here.                                                    World Bank-9688



ANNEX 9
Figure 3
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cropping Calendar
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr    May    Jun.    Jul.    Aug    Sep               Oct.   Nov.    Dec.
Crops /
T.aus
B.aman                              .                .,
Taman  
Boro
Rabi
LEGEND
/ B: broadcast rice T: transplanted rice.
Rabi: winter crops other than rice, including pulses,
Nursery  Growing period                              mustard, potatoes and chilies.
period    in the field
World Bank -9944
59



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
1.        For economic analysis, the estimated future farm gate prices of
internationally traded agricultural inputs and outputs are derived from
projected 1985 world market prices (expressed in 1977 currency values),
with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and processing and
quality differentials (Table 1). Production of crops such as pulses and
oilseeds is small and most of the output is consumed locally -- often by
the cultivators themselves. Projected farm gate prices for such crops are
based on the typical ratio between their prices and the price of rice in the
domestic market. In view of the large unemployment and underemployment
situation prevailing in the project areas, and the seasonal nature of much
of the employment, market wage rates have been adjusted to reflect the season-
specific opportunity costs (Annex 12). Finally, to reflect the prevailing
regime of import/export taxes and duties and quota restrictions in Bangladesh,
a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.75 1/ has been used to adjust the
domestic cost component in various inputs and outputs.
2.        Projecting prices for use in the financial analysis is much more
speculative. Since independence in 1971, the domestic prices of agricultural
commodities in Bangladesh have experienced wide swings. The wholesale price
for medium quality rice, for example, rose from Tk 56 per md in 1971/72 to Tk
272 per md in March 1975 and then declined to Tk 113 per md in December 1975.
Similarly, the jute price rose from Tk 50 per md in 1972/73 to Tk 129 per md
in November 1974 and then declined to Tk 90 per md in December 1975. In part,
these swings have been related to the fluctuations in the world market prices.
To a large extent, however, the main determinants have been the domestic supply-
demand conditions which, in turn, have depended upon quantity and timing of
food aid shipments, local weather conditions and the attractiveness of smug-
gling to neighboring countries. Although all through this period, the Govern-
ment has intervened in the market through compulsory procurement at fixed
prices or through "guaranteed support prices", its impact on the domestic
prices has been rather limited. The high degree of uncertainty in many of
the parameters which determine domestic prices, makes the task of projecting
prices for financial analysis particularly difficult.
3.        Two different prices assumptions are used for the financial analysis
in this report. For the base case, it is assumed that due to construction of
additional foodgrain storage, build-up of buffer stocks following the good
1/ i.e. A shadow exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 20 (SCF = official exchange
rate/shadow exchange rate).
60



ANNEX 10
Page 2
harvests in the past two years, and a general tightening up of the official
procurement machinery, the Government would be able to intervene more effec-
tively in the domestic market. As a result, the future farmgate prices (in
constant 1977 values) for paddy would average the current official procurement
prices adjusted for transportation and handling costs between the farmgate and
the procurement centers. Prices for vegetables, and pulses and oilseeds are
assumed to maintain typical historical ratios to the paddy prices. Also it is
assumed that, in constant terms, GOB would maintain the prices for fertilizers,
seeds and pesticides at the present levels. As regards human and animal
labor, the prevailing wage rates are considered to be depressed due to low
foodgrain prices at present and hence future rates are assumed to be about 20%
higher.
4.        The alternative price assumption is basically a continuation of
the price situation experienced during the past year or so. It is assumed
that due to good harvests domestically and large food aid shipments from
abroad, the farm gate prices for foodgrains would remain below the official
procurement prices. Prices for vegetables and pulses and oilseeds would main-
tain their historical ratios to paddy prices while the jute prices would be
influenced only partially. Also it is assumed that the Government would let
the prices (in constant terms) for fertilizers, seeds and pesticides to
decline below the present levels. Lastly wage rates for the human and
animal labor are assumed to be as at present.
5.        The projected financial and economic prices for the various inputs
and outputs are shown in Table 2.
May 1977
61



ANNEX 10
Table 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices for Economic Analysis
Co,odity
Item                              Rice      Urea      TSP     NP
1. Projected 1985 World Market
Price (US$/ton) 1/ 2/            374       178       159      65
2.  Adjustments for Quality                  3/
Differentials Cx)                65-70-   100        100    100
3. Projected Price Adjusted for
Quality (US$/ton)               243-262   178        159      65
4.  Shipping Costs to/from Chitt-                    4
gong (US$/ton)                   25         10-       30      30
5. FOB/CIF Chittagong Price
(US$/ton)                       268-287   188       189      95
6. Handling and Transport Costs
Between the Port and the
Wholesale Market/Main Go-        20         20        10     10
downs (US$/ton) 5/ 6/
7.  Price Ex-Godowns (US$/ton)        288-307   168        199    105
8. Processing, Handling and
Transport Costs Between          50         30        35     25
the Wholesale Market/Go-
downs and the Farm Gate 5/
9.  Farm Gate Price (US$/ton)         238-257   198        234    130
10. Processing Ratio (%)                65       100       100    100
11. Farm Gate Price Adjusted for
Processing Losses (US$/ton)   155-167   198         234    130
(Tk/md)                           87-93    110        130      73
1/ Source: IBRD Price Forecasts dated November 23, 1976. The forecasts,
expressed in 1974 constant dollars have been escalated by 27% to convert
them into early 1977 currency values.
2/ Pricing Basis
Rice   : Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok
Urea   : Bagged, FOB Europe
TSP    : Bulk, FOB US Gulf
MP     : Bulk, FOB Vancouver
3/ For 25-35% broken. Larger discount for boro and aus crops which are of
poorer quality than the aman crop.
4/ Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because of proximity to
markets in South Asia would command a price advantage over European
suppliers.
5/ Using a SCF of 0.75 for the elements having non-traded goods and
services.
6/ Lower than normal due to proximity of project areas to Chittagong.
62



ANNEX IU
Table 2
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices for Economic & Financial Analyses
Financial Price            Economic Price
Crops                       Basic Case   Alt.Case
--(Tk/md)----- (Tk/md)---
Paddy
Aman                               70           55                 93
Aus                                65           50                 87
Boro                               65           50                 87
Pulses & Oilseeds                      100           80               150
Vegetables                              50           40                50
Inputs
Urea                                    60           50               110
TSP                                     48           40               130
MP                                      40           30                73
Diazinon                               280          250               700
Sumithion                              950         800              2,300
Seed HYV Paddy 1/                       90           80               150
Seed HYV Wheat 1/                     110           100               150
Animal labor 2/                         10            8                 7.5
Farm labor 3/                            8            6               3-6 4/
1/ For local varieties same as crop prices.
2/ Tk/day for a pair of bullocks.
3/ Tk/man-day.
4/ See Annex 12 for details.
63



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
General
1.        The expected overall changes in cropping patterns, yields and
production due to the project are described in Annex 9. This Annex discus-
ses the impact on the individual farm. The purposes of this micro analysis
are:
(a) to estimate the effects of the project on farm incomes
for representative farm sizes and cropping patterns in
order to determine the distributional impact;
(b) to compare the income levels of the project area farmers
with those of farmers in other areas;
(c) to determine the capacity of the project beneficiaries
to repay the project costs, and
(d) to analyze the effects of different Government policies
regarding input subsidies and water charges.
Crop Input Requirements
2.        Present and projected unit input requirements under the project
are given in Table 1. The estimated current input usage rates are derived
from two agricultural surveys carried out in the project area in 1964 and
1970. The results of these have been adjusted and updated with information
supplied by the Ministry of Agriculture and BADC. Future requirements are
based on recommendations by the Directorate of Agricultural Extension and
Management and on observed cultural practices of the progressive farmers
of the area.
Model Sizes for the Farm Budget Analysis
3.        Households in the project area can, somewhat arbitrarily, be
classified into four groups according to their economic situation:
(a) Landless workers, most of whom earn their living as daily
workers in the fields, in construction or distribution.
About 35% of the households in the area fall in this
category;
64



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(b) Sub-marginal farmers cultivate less than 1.5 ac of land,
which is presently the minimum area required to support
an average family. Usually more than half of the household
income comes from work outside the family farm. In the farm
budget analysis, a 1.0 ac farm has been chosen to represent
some 35% of the households that operate between 0.25 - 1.5 ac;
(c) Small farmers cultivate an area of 1.5 - 4.0 ac and typically
have a per capita income that is well below the national
average. About 20% of the households belong to this category,
represented in the farm budget analysis by a 3.0 ac farm; and
(d) Large farmers defined as the "upper 10%." These farmers own
more than 4.0 ac. They are far from being "large" by any
absolute standard. Their families typically number about ten
persons and their per capita income rarely exceeds US$150. The
medium holding size for the "large" farmers is roughly 5.0 ac
and this size has been chosen to represent this group in the
farm budget analyses.
Farm Budget Analyses
4.        The project area consists of three parts:
(a) 15,000 ac already irrigated;
(b) 17,000 ac which will remain non-irrigated.
(c) 35,000 ac presently without irrigation but to be
provided with irrigation under the project;
While farmers in the first two sub-areas will benefit due to improved agricul-
tural supporting services and improved drainage under the project, the main
project benefits would accrue to farmers in the third sub-area. Accordingly
for the budget analyses only farms belonging to the third sub-area have been
considered.
5.        Budgets on an annual cash flow basis for three representative
farm models are given in Table 3. The following assumptions have been
made in the analyses:
(a) Net Cultivated Land
The area given in the surveys is based on the gross size
of the farms. Since a part of this area is taken up by
homesteads, ditches, paths, trees, etc., the net cultivated
area is somewhat lower. The figures given in Table 3 are
based on the results of the agricultural surveys.
65



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(b)  Family Sizes
Based on the 1970 agro-economic survey, the family sizes in the
project area for the various holding sizes are estimated to be as
follows:
Holdings           Number of Persons         Number of Workers I/
1977         1985        1977          1985
1.0 ac             5.0           5.8         1.4           1.6
3.0 ac             8.2           9.5         2.3           2.7
5.0 ac            10.0          11.6         2.8           3.3
(c)  Cropping Patterns
Reflect the average for the project area, but give a
somewhat higher intensity for the small farms and somewhat
lower for the large farms.
(d)  Crop Yields and Input Requirements
Projected yields used in the analyses are given in Annex 9.
Crop inputs have been estimated based on the input require-
ments given in Table 1.
(e)  Hired Farm Labor
The monthly labor requirements (based on Table 2) have
been calculated for each farm size. Since the number of
family members varies with the farm size, the total labor
availability for each farm model has been calculated. On
the average, 15% of available family labor is employed
outside the farm. Since the average daily wage for outside
work is generally higher than the cost of hiring farm labor,
non-farm work is usually given preference over farm work.
Based on the 1970 socio-economic survey in the project area,
the monthly amount of hired labor for each farm model was
estimated with the following formula:
Hired man-days = Total farm labor requirement minus
net available family labor plus 10%
total farm labor requirement.
Thus even if theoretically the family can supply all labor,
on the average 10% of the requirements are hired.
1/ See Annex 12 for reasons for the low labor force participation rates.
66



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(f)  Prices
Present and future production and inputs are valued using
the projected financial prices (in 1977 values) corresponding
to the base case discussed in Annex 10.
(h)  Non-Farm Income
Current levels are estimated from the socio-economic survey.
The reasons for the relatively high non-farm incomes for
the large farms are their large family sizes and, primarily,
better educational background which results in higher wages.
The project will increase the demand for labor in the area
(Annex 12). Although the non-farm income for the sub-marginal
farmers will increase somewhat by the project, it has been
assumed as constant in the analysis.
Farm Incomes and Incentives
6.        Annual family incomes for the three typical farm models discussed
above are detailed in Table 3 and summarized below:
67



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Gross Value of    Net Value of       Non-Farm      Total Family
Productions        Production /c      Income        Income /c
(1)                (2)             (3)          (4)=(2)+(3)
--------------------------  Tk  --------------------------------
I ac farm /a
P                1,760           1,310            2,000           3,310
W                2,350           1,790            2,000           3,790
w                4,110           3,270            2,000           5,270
Increase /b           75              83                -               39
(%)
3 ac farm
P                5,190           3,700            3,000           6,700
w                6,900           5,100            3,000           8,100
W               11,850           9,170            3,000          12,170
Increase              72              80                -               50
(%)
5 ac farm
P                8,220           5,660            4,000           9,660
w               11,180           7,980            4,000          11,980
W               19,580          14,170            4,000          18,170
Increase              75              77                -               52
(%)
/a   P = present, W = future without project, W = future with project.
/b   Due to project   (W - W).
c/   Before deducting charges for irrigation and rewards for family labor.
Consequently, for farmers who will be provided with irrigation, the net
income from farming will increase by about 80% and the corresponding total
family income by about 50%. These increases are considered adequate for full
participation by the farmers in project activities.
7.        The family income figures give an exaggerated picture of income
inequalities since the family size increases with the farm size. The
present per capita income for the 1.0 ac farmers and the 5.0 ac farmers is
Tk 660 and Tk 970, respectively. After the project is implemented, taking
into account the expected population increase, the comparable figures will be
Tk 910 and Tk 1,570. Thus, on a per capita basis, the inequalities would be
considerably smaller.
Farmers' Ability to Pay Water Charges
8.        For the estimation of the farmers' ability and willingness to pay
water charges, the concept of project rent has to be introduced. Simply
stated, project rent is the incremental net income when all factors of produc-
tion, except water and related services supplied by the project, are given the
68



ANNEX 11
Page 6
rewards that are required for their cooperation. In the absence of uncertain-
ty, project rent is equal to the net incremental farm income minus the neces-
sary rewards to family labor and management for their extra input of labor and
entrepreneurship.
9.        The need to account for risky nature of farm incomes arises from the
fact that farmers, particularly the small farmers, are risk averse and prefer a
somewhat smaller but certain income to an income, which although expected to be
larger, is uncertain. A relatively simple way to incorporate the risk-averse
behavior of the farmers is to use a certainty equivalent (CE) instead of the
expected value (EV) for the gross production. Under a number of simplifying
assumptions about the underlying probability distributions for uncertain para-
meters and about farmers' risk aversion, CE can be expressed as:
CE = EV - n x s
Where n = a factor expressing farmers' risk aversion
and   s = the standard deviation of EV.
10.       The uncertainty in farm incomes comes primarily from two sources --
the fluctuation in farm prices and the variation in crop yields. The variation
in crop prices is partially a function of the effectiveness of the Government
intervention in the foodgrain market. As mentioned in Annex 10, the prices
have fluctuated considerably during the last few years. It is likely that
even for the future, the annual price variation around the mean would average
15-20%.
11.       The variation in crop yields is primarily related to cropping cal-
endars and climatic factors. Typically, aus is the most risky crop with
average variation of 25-30% from the mean yield and irrigated boro the least
risky, with variations of about 10% from the mean. The aman crop is in between
the two extremes, probable variation being about 20% under rainfed conditions
and 15% under irrigated conditions.
12.       It is safe to assume that variations in prices and yields would have
a substantial negative correlation with each other. Also, it is likely that
in a given year, yields for the various crops would be largely uncorrelated.
In view of these and taking into consideration the relative importance of
various crops in the gross value of production, it is estimated that the GVP
would have a standard deviation of 15% without irrigation and 10% with the
irrigation.
13.       Reliable estimates for farmers' risk aversion are lacking.  Empirical
studies so far indicate that the farmers' choice of cropping pattern and pro-
duction techniques can be predicted reasonably accurately for values of 'n'
in the range of 1-2. Expectedly, the value of 'n' decreases with the farm
size. In view of the relatively small farm size in Bangladesh, a value of
1.5 is assumed for the base case.
69



ANNEX 11
Page 7
14.       On the basis of the above, for the base case,, the certainty equi-
valent of the GVP would amount to 77.5% of the GVP for the without irrigation
case and 85% for the with irrigation case.
15.       The next problem that arises in the calculation of project rent
is the value of family labor. In economic literature, there is considerable
controversy about appropriate returns for family labor and management. Con-
servatively, in the following analysis, all family labor is valued at the
prevailing market wage (Tk 8 per day) during the peak months.
16.       A reward for farm management is necessary because in addition to
supplying family labor for farm operations, the farmers supply some entre-
preneurial skills as well. Also, many farm related activities such as
applying for credit and other inputs, attending meetings organized by ex-
tension officers and supervising hired labor are not included in estimating
the crop labor requirements. It is reasonable to assume that the demands
for the entrepreunerial skills are related to the complexity of cultural
practices followed by the farmers. A measure of the complexity are the
crop production costs. Somewhat arbitrarily, it is assumed that the manage-
ment fee would equal 10% of the cost of purchased inputs. Since for the
with project case, the cost of irrigation has been treated separately, the
management fee is assumed to be 15% of the remaining production costs.
17.       On the basis of the above, the project rent per irrigated acre for
the three farm models is estimated to be between Tk 1,330 - 1,440 per year
(Table 4). Since these estimates are based on "typical" farms, they do not
take into account the variations in land and human resources for the various
farms. Allowing a 10% margin for such variations, a reasonable upper limit
for the potential water charges would be about Tk 1,200 per irrigated ac.
Cost of Irrigation
18.       At a discount rate of 10% per annum, the present value of the proj-
ect construction costs 1/ and expected costs of major repairs is estimated to
be about Tk 353 M or about Tk 10,100 per irrigated ac. The O&M of the project
works would cost Tk 5 M per year or about Tk 140 per ac. In addition, the
annualized capital cost of low-lift pumps would amount to Tk 6,000 per pump
(about Tk 140 per ac) and the O&M cost to Tk 8,000 (about Tk 180 per ac).
Accordingly, the total annual cost for a low-lift pump would be Tk 320 per ac.
Assuming that water charges are introduced from Year Six of the project, full
cost recovery would require a total annual charge of Tk 2,120 per irrigated
ac -- Tk 1,660 for recovery of construction costs, Tk 140 for O&M of civil
works, Tk 140 for the capital cost of low-lift pumps and Tk 180 for the O&M
cost of low-lift pumps.
I/   All costs are net of taxes and duties and in constant 1977 prices.
10



ANNEX 11
Page 8
19.        Six basic alternative levels of water charges can be identified:
Total Charge    Benefit    Cost    Rent
per Irrigated  Recovery  Recovery Recovery
Altern-                                         Acre            Index    Index    Index
ative            Description                      (Tk)           (          (%)       (%)
1       Present policy /a                       250             14       12        21
2       Farmers pay full cost for low-
lift pumps and no other
charges                              320             18       15        27
3       Full costs for low-lift pumps
plus a charge covering full
0 & M costs for civil works          460             26       22        38
4       Full costs for low-lift pumps
plus a charge in line with
the Irrigation Ordinance
(10% of incremental gross
farm income)                         700             39       33        58
5       Farmers pay full "Project
Rent"                              1,200             66       57       100
6       Full costs for low-lift pumps
plus 0 & M costs plus capital
recovery of civil works            2,120            120      100       178
/a   For low-lift pumps users pay costs of diesel fuel, lube oil, the operator
salary, spare parts (Tk 400), and rental charges on low-lift pumps (Tk
600) or a total of about Tk 8,000 per pump or Tk 180/ac.  In addition,
for similar projects like the Muhuri Project GOB has recently imposed a
charge of 3% of the incremental gross production value for recovery of
investment in civil works. This charge would amount to about Tk 70
per ac.
20.        The analysis clearly shows that full cost recovery (Alternative 6)
is infeasible. A cost recovery in line with Alternative 3 or 4 should, on the
other hand, be feasible. However, still a number of other factors have to be
taken into account when a decision is made about the exact level of water
charges; the most important are:
(a) The project rent is highly sensitive to variations in the
expected crop prices. Assuming prices are in line with the
alternative case (Annex 10), the project rent would be re-
duced by about 25% to the Tk 900 per ac.
71



ANNEX 11
Page 9
(b) About one quarter of the farmers in the area already have
low-lift pumps. The project would provide a more stable
source of water and also some flood protection for their
farms, but their gains would be relatively small. An
analysis along the above lines indicates that the poten-
tial charge for the project's services for this group would
be about Tk 200 per ac in addition to the full cost for low-
lift pumps. This amount is basically equal to the annual
0 & M cost for civil works.
(c) The relatively low incomes in the project area might create
strong political pressure to keep the water charge at low
level.
(d) The difficulty of having substantially different water charges
in the project area than in other parts of Bangladesh.
In light of these factors, it is recommended that at least full cost for low-
lift pumps plus 0 & M for civil works should be recovered. Roughly this
represents a doubling of the present charges.
Subsidies
21.       At present, most agricultural inputs are subsidized by the Govern-
ment, the estimated subsidy being Tk 50 per md for urea, Tk 80 per md for
TSP, Tk 80 per md for MP, Tk 400 per md for diazinon, and Tk 1,300 per md
for sumithion. These subsidies are clearly regressive, as can be seen from
the following Table, which is based on the assumption that the present rates
of subsidies remain unchanged in the future:
Fertilizer and       Net Farm Income Without Fertilizer
Pesticide Subsidy           and Pesticide Subsidies
Farm Size                  (Tk)                          (Tk)
1.0 ac      P               30                          1,280
W              130                          1,660
W              330                          2,940
3.0 ac      P              110                          3,590
W              310                          4,790
W              980                          8,190
5.0 ac      P              160                          5,500
W              520                          7,460
W            1,510                         12,660
The subsidies benefit the large farmers more than the small farmers and farmers
with irrigation more than farmers without irrigation. Consequently, they have
72



ANNEX 11
Page 10
a detrimental effect on income distribution. Even more important is the indi-
cated "automatic" increase in Government expenditure. The implementation of
the project would increase the Government's annual cost for fertilizers and
pesticides in the project area by about Tk 13 M.
22.       The change in cropping pattern that would follow the provision of
irrigation water would increase the amount of subsidy per acre by roughly
Tk 200. If the present system of subsidies and water charges remains un-
changed, the total per acre subsidy would be:
Tk/ac/year
Annuity on the investment in
irrigation facilities                            1,660
Operation and maintenance of
major irrigation facilities                        140
Capital cost for low-lift pumps                      140
Subsidies on fertilizers and
pesticides                                         200
Total                                         2,140
23.       As can be seen from the previous Table, most of the present sub-
sidies come from the low cost of irrigation water. There are indications
that farmers in Bangladesh use less fertilizer than what is optimal. Some
subsidies can in that case be taken as an incentive to use more fertilizers.
However, the use of irrigation water would remain very profitable to the
farmers even if the cost of water is increased substantially. Accordingly,
there is an urgent need to reduce present levels of subsidies on irrigation
water.
May 1977
73



BANGLADESH
MUIIURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/
Crop Input Requirements
T.Aman(HYV)
B.Aus             T.Aus(HYV)              B.Aman            T.Aman (Local)              (rainfed)
P     W     W        P     W      W        P     W     W        P       W      W        P      W     W
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46XN)       (mds/ac)          0.1   0.1   0.1       -     1.4   1.5      0.1   0.1   -         0.2    0.4    0.5       1.0   1.3   1.5
TSP (46% P205)   (mds/ac)           0      0     0        -     0.6   0.8       0     0     -        0.1    0.2    0.3       0.5   0.6   0.8
MP  (607 K)       (mds/ac)          0      0     0        -     0.1   0.3       0     0     -        0.05   0.1    0.1       0.2   0.4   0.4
Diazinon          (mds/ac)          0      0     0        -     0.01  0.01    0       0     -        0.005  0.005  0.005   0.01  0.01  0.01
Sumithion         (mds/ac)          0      0     0        -     0.01  0.01    0       0     -        0.005  0.005  0.005   0.01  0.01  0.01
ANNUAL FAMILY AND HIRED LABOR
Preparation       (m-d/ac)         17    17    17         -    22    22       17    17      -       22      22     22       22    22    22
Planting and
Nursing        (m-d/ac)          2     2      2        -    18    18        2      2     -       18      18     18       18    18    18
Crop Management  (m-d/ac)           6      6     6        -    12    12         6     6      -      10      11      11      12    13    13
Harvesting and
Threshing      (m-d/ac)         20    20    20         -    27    28       20    20      -       22      24     25       27    28    29
Subtotal (m-d/ac)        45    45    45         -    79    80        45    45      -      72      75      76       79    81    82
OTUR INPUTS
Animal Power      (a-d/ac)         15    15    15         -    17    17        15    15      -      17      17      17       17    17    17
Seed              (mds/ac)          1.0   1.0   1.0       -     0.4   0.4       1.0   1.0   -        0.4    0.4    0.4       0.4   0.4   0.4
Irrigation        (ax'iu/ac)        0      0   -0        -    18    18         0     O      -               0       0        0     a      o
Miscellaneous    (Tk/ac)           10    10    10         -    20    30        10    10      -       10     15      20       25    30    35
I/ P - present, W - future without project, W = future vith project                                                                                    I?S



BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Input Requirementsl/
T.Aman (HYV)
(Irrigated)            Boro (Local)          Boro (HYV)        Pulses &                             2/
mTILZERSNDPETICIESP             W       W        P     W      W      p     W       W        P      W     W        p      W        W
PERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES         p     i                                                                  w     wp              i 
Urea (46% N)       (mds/ac)        -     1.8    2.0       0.7   0.7   -       1.5   2.0    2.4       0      0     0        1.5    2.0      2.5
TSP  (46% P205)   (mds/ac)         -     0.8    1.0       0.3   0.3   -       0.6   1.0    1.0       0      0     0        1.0    1.5      2.0
MP (607% K)        (mds/ac         -      0.5    0.5      0.1   0.1   -       0.1   0.5    0.5        0     0     0        0.4    0.6      1.0
Diazinon           (mds/ac)        -     0.01   0.01      0.005 0.005 -       0.01  0.01   0.01       0     0     0        0.01   0.01    0.01
Sumithion          (mds/ac)        -     0.01   0.01      0.005 0.005 -       0.01  0.01   0.01       0     0     0        0.01   0.01    0.01
ANNUAL FAMILY AND HIRED LABOR
Preparation        (m-d/ac)        -    22      22       22    22      -     22    22      22        10    10    10       22     22       22
Planting and
Nursing          (m-d/ac)        -    18      18       18    18      -     18    18      18         2     2     2       22     23       26
Crop Management   (m-d/ac)         -    13      14       12    12      -     15    16      16         3     5      5      16      20      24
Harvesting and
Threshing       (m-d/ac)        -    32      33       25    25      -     31    32      35        18    20    20       40      50      58
Subtotal (m-d/ac)        -    85     87        77    77      -     86    88      91       33    37    37       100    115      130
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power       (a-d/ac)        -    17      17       17    17      -      17    17     17         8     8      8      17      17      17
Seed              (mds/ac)         -     0.4    0.4       0.4   0.4   -       0.4   0.4    0.4        0.4   0.4   0.4      1.0    1.0      1.0
Irrigation         (ac-in/ac)      -     5       5       30    30      -     38    38      38         0     0      0       0       0       0
Miscellaneous      (Tk/ac)         -    35      40        20    20     -      30    40     50         5      5     5       30     40       50
1/ P = present, W = future without project, W = future with project
2/ Composite crops. Input requirements are notional
Un



BANGLADESH
NUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
(In man-days per acre)
January   February   March   April   May   June   J1S   August   September   October   November   December                 Total
RICE (PADDY)
Aus                  P             0           0         7        13     2       2      12      9            0           0          0            0           45
(Local)                         0            0        7        13      2      2      12       9           0           0          0             0          45
W             0           0         7        13     2       2      12      9            0           0          0            0           45
Aus                  P             -           -         -         -     -       -       -       -           -           -          -
(HYV)                           0           0         7        28    10       4      18      12           0           0          0             0           79
W             0           0         7        28    10       4      19     12            0           0          0            0           80
Aman - B.            p             0           0         7        13     2       2       1       0           0           6         14            0           45
W             0           0         7        13     2       2       1       0           0           6         14            0           45
w                                           -               -                                       _          _                          _
Aman - T.            P             0           0         0         0     0       7      15     21            3           3         15            8           72
(Local)                         0     0           0             0      0       7     15      21           3            3         16           10           75
W             0           0         0         0     0       7      15     21            3           3         17           10           76
Aman - T.            p             0           0         0         0     0       7      15     21            4           4         19            9           79
(HYV, rainfed)   W              0           0         0         0      0       7     15      21           5           4          19           10           81
w             0           0         0         0      0      7      15      21           5           4         20           10           82
Aman -               P             -           -         -         -      -      -       -       -           -           -          -             -            -
(HYV, irrig.)    W              0           0         0         0      0       7     15      21           5           5         21            11           85
W             0           0         0         0      0      7      15      22           5           5         22           11           87
Boro                P             12          27         3         3    11      17       0       0           0           0          0            4           77
(Local)           I            12          27         3         3    11       17      0       0           0           0           0            4           77
w                         -         -         -      -      -       -       -           _           _           _            _
Boro                P             12          28         4         L    13      21       0       0           0           0          0             4          86
(HYV)             W            12          28         5          14   13      22       0      0           0            0          0            4           88
W            12          28         5         5    14      23       0       0           0           0          0          .4             91
OTHER CROPS
Pulses and          P              1           1         6        12             0       0       0           0           0          5             8           33
Oilseeds            V             2           2         7        13      0      0       0       0           0           0          5             8           37
W             2           2         7        13      0      0       0       0           0           0           5            8           37
Vegetables          P              6           6        20        20     0       0       0       0           0           0         28            20          100
W             7           8        25        24      0              0       0           0           0         29            22          115      m
W             8           8        30        28      0      0       0       0           0           0          32           24          130



ANNEX 11
Table 3
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1.0 Acre Farm                 3.0 Acre Farm                     5.0 Agre FiArm
Cropped Areas (Acres)                P        W         W           p          W         W            P         W          W
Aus - Local                          0.7      0.6       -           2.0        1.6        -           3.5        2.5       -
- HYV                            -       0.1        -           -          0.4       0.3         -          1.0        0.5
Aman - Transplanted (Local)          0.8      0.4        0.1        2.2        1.2        0.5         3.5        2.0        0.5
- HYV, rainfed                  -       0.4        0.2         -          1.0        0.8        -          1.5        1.5
- HYV, irrigated                -       -          0.5         -          -          1.0        -          -          1.5
Boro - HYV                           -        -          0.7        -          -          1.8         -          -          3.0
Paddy, Total                         1.5      1.5        1.5        4.2        4.2        4.4         7.0        7.0        7.0
Other Crops                          0.1      0.1        0.1        0.4        0.4        0.4         0.5        0.5        0.8
Total                                1.6      1.6       1.6         4.6        4.6        4.8         7.5        7.5        7.8
Net Cultivated Area                  0.8      0.8        0.8        2.5        2.5        2.5         4.3        4.3        4.3
Cropping Intensity (%)             200      200        200        180        180        192         174        174        181
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE (Tk)    1,760   2,350        4,110       5,190      6,900    11,850        8,220    11,180    19,580
Farm Production Costs (Tk)
Crop Inputs                        370      470        710      1,090      1,350      2,030       1,760      2,200      3,410
Hired Labor                         80       90        130        400        450        650         800      1,000      2,000
Total                              450      560        840      1,490      1,800      2,680       2,560      3,200      5,410
Net Production Value L/(Tk)    1,310   1,790         3,270      3,700      5,100      9,170       5,660      7,980    14,170
1/  Before deducting irrigation costs and remuneration for family labor.
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 11
Table 4
BANGLADESH
MEUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Rent For the Three Farm Models
1.0 ac Farm          3.0 ac Farm       5.0 ac Farm
Item                         W         W          W        W         i       W
(1)   Expected Gross Pro-
duction value 2/       (Tk)     2,350    4,110       6,900  11,850    11,180  19,580
(ii) Certainty Equivalent
of (i)                 (Tk)      1,820    3,490       5,350  10,070      8,660  16,640
(iii) Crop Inputs2/,3/         (Tk)        560       840      1,800   2,680       3,200   5,410
(iv)  Family Labor             (Tk)        740       910      1,990   2,610       3,000   3,350
(v)   Management Fee           (Tk)         60       130        180      400        320      810
(vi)  Implicit Land Rent
(ii)-(iii)-(iv)-(v)   (Tk)        460    1,610       1,380   4,380       2,140   7,070
(vii) Project Rent             (Tk)          1,150               _3000                4,930
(viii) Irrigated Area           (Ac)             0.8                  2.2                3.8
(ix)  Project Rent per ac
Irrigated Acre         (Tk)          1,440                1,360              1,330
1/ W = without project, W = with project.
2/ From Table 3.
3/ Excluding family labor and management
78



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
General
1.        The population density in the Muhuri area is one of the highest
in Bangladesh and this has resulted in relatively small farms and a large
number of landless households. Since commercial activities in the area
are limited, under:employment is substantial.
2.        The poorest 40% of the families in the project area are landless
or operate farms smaller than 0.5 ac. The project's effect on this group
depends on how much employment the project will generate. Little employment
data exists, but some rough estimates, partly based on the 1970 agro-
economic survey, are presented in this Annex.
3.        Because of high underemployment, wage levels reported in the proj-
ect area probably overstate the economic opportunity cost of farm labor. For
the economic analysis, shadowed wage rates have been derived using the economic
supply curve for labor, shown in Figure 1. The assumptions behind the curve
are discussed below.
Labor Supply
4.        On the basis of the 1974 census, the current population in the
project area is estimated at about 410,000. The population grew at an annual
rate of 1.0% between 1951 and 1961 and 1.5% between 1961 and 1974. This is
equivalent to 40% and 50% of the national averages for these two periods,
respectively. For this analysis, it is assumed that the future growth rate
will be 60% of the projected national average or about 1.8% annually.
5.        In Bangladesh, women normally do not work in the fields and, there-
fore, only males are included in the estimates of the agricultural labor force.
Some 29-30% of the Bangladesh population belongs to the male labor force.
The heavy migration from the project area has reduced the proportion of the
population in active age groups. Consequently, if the age specific labor
force participation rates for the whole country are applied to the 1974 census
figures for the area, the male labor force amounts to about 28.5% of the
project population. Since the labor force participation rate is higher in
urban than in rural areas, it has been assumed that the labor force parti-
cipation rate in the area is 28%. The estimates of labor supply, given below,
have been made using 240 days per year. This allows for less than a full
day's work for persons of extreme ages who are included in the labor force
estimates.
79



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Year       Population       Male Labor Force        Labor Supply
(persons)          (persons)         (milliion man-days)
1977        410,000              115,000                27.6
1980        435,000              122,000                29.2
1985        476,000              133,000                32.0
1990        520,000              146,000                34.9
Labor Demand
6.        Besides agricultural production, the labor force is involved in:
(a) farm and home maintenance; (b) off-farm subsidiary occupations such
as handicrafts, fishing, commercial activities, clerical and other
services, and (c) new development schemes. Some of the activities under
categories (a) and (b) are undertaken by women. Category (c) includes
local construction work in both urban and rural areas. Also, besides the
proposed project, a Dutch-supported rural development project is expected
to be implemented in part of the project areas.
7.        Estimates of monthly farm labor requirements for various crops
are given in Annex 11, Table 2. Estimates of the total montly labor
demand are given in Table 1.  Based on detailed calculations of labor
supply and requirements for different farm sizes, the following demand
for hired farm labor has been estimated:
Million man-days
Hired
Total require- Supplied by         Supplied by  Supplied by land-
ment         family    Total other farmers less laborers
Present           7.5              5.5       2.0       0.8            1.2
Future without
project          8.1              5.9      2.2        0.9            1.3
Future with
project        10.7              7.5      3.2        1.0            2.2
8.        Without the project, total farm labor requirements would fall from
27% of the supply at present to about 25% in 1985.  With the project, the
farm labor demand would be 33% of the supply in 1985. Even more important,
the demand for hired labor would increase more rapidly than total labor
requirements. At present, about 40% of wage labor is supplied by sub-
marginal and small farmers and 60% by landless workers. Due to increased
job opportunities on their own farms, small farmers can increase their off-
farm employment only to a limited extent. Consequently, with the project,
the farm labor market for the landless will roughly double.
80



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        The present paddy production is 73,000 tons of which about 20,000
tons are sold by the farmers and distributed within the project area. Some
30,000 tons are imported into the area. After project implementation,
farmers will sell approximately 70,000 tons of which 25,000 tons will be
exported and 45,000 tons distributed locally. The use of fertilizers and
pesticides will more than double due to the project. Consequently, employ-
ment in agriculture-related trade and transport will increase substantially.
10.       Net farm incomes will increase about 80% due to the project, but
the increase in cash incomes will be larger or about 110%. If the marginal
propensity to consume locally manufactured and distributed non-agricultural
goods is at least half of the average propensity to consume these goods,
the employment in small scale manufacturing, handicrafts and distribution
of non-farm goods will increase at least 50% due to the project. The effect
might result in doubling the present employment.
11.       Based on the 1970 agro-economic survey, it is estimated that
present non-farm employment is about 6.5 million man-days or almost 25%
of total labor supply. The per capita income in the area is projected to
increase slightly even without the project. It is therefore realistic to
assume that non-farm employment will at least grow at the same rate as the
population. This would give a non-farm employment of about 7.5 million
man-days in 1985 without the project. It was argued above that the employ-
ment in trade, transport and small scale manufacturing would increase 50-
100% due to the project. Since these activities make up somewhat more than
half the non-agricultural employment in rural areas, it is reasonable to
assume that total non-farm employment would increase 25-50% due to the pro-
ject. In order not to overestimate employment effects, the lower of these
values is chosen. The overall employment situation would then be:
1977                       1985
Without Project         With Project
Total                  27.6           32.0                     32.0
Agriculture             7.5            8.1                     10.7
Non-Farm Employment    6.5             7.5                      9.4
Surplus                13.6           16.4                     11.9
Unemployment
Rate                  49%            51%                      37%
Employment for Landless Workers
12.       The 28,000 landless workers presently carry out about 35% of the
non-farm work in the area or about 2.3 million man-days. Since the farmers
will experience increased demand for family labor on their farms, it is
unlikely that the landless workers' share of non-farm employment will decline.
It is estimated that their non-farm employment would increase to at least
3.5 million man-days with the project. If the demand for agricultural field
workers is added, the total work volume for the landless would increase from
about 3.5 million man-days at present to at least 5.7 million man-days with
the project.
81



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
13.       Scarcity of detailed data on farm income levels, off-farm employ-
ment opportunities, and the agricultural labor force profile makes the
evaluation of economic shadow rates for farm labor extremely subjective.
Economic farm labor costs were estimated by using monthly shadow rates
reflecting different opportunity costs associated with various segments
of the labor force and slack and peak periods during the year.
14.       On the basis of available information about the project area and
experience from similar areas, it is postulated that the marginal oppor-
tunity cost of farm labor can be represented by an "S-shaped" curve. The
marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of demand
and increases when more labor is absorbed into field work. The increase
in opportunity cost is initially slow and reflects the scarcity of alterna-
tive productive employment, but is is more rapid when the full labor supply
is utilized. At employment levels above the maximum available in the area,
the opportunity cost would again increase at a slower rate since a large
number of migrants would be attracted to the project area from neighboring
areas where there is substantial under-employment. In practice, it is
reasonable to approximate this idealized "S-shaped" curve by three straight
segments.
15.       Figure 1 gives the curve of approximate shadow rates used in the
analysis. The curve shows the estimated marginal opportunity cost of labor
as a function of demand (expressed as a proportion of the supply). The
shape of the curve is based on the following assumptions:
(a) at minimum employment levels, the marginal cost would be
the value of additional consumption needed for family
members to undertake field work (0.5 per man-day 1/),
plus the value of foregone activities such as fishing,
home improvement, etc. (Tk 1.5 per man-day);
(b) at employment levels corresponding to 50% of the full
farm labor availability, 2/ the marginal cost would be
the minimum market rate (Tk 5 per man-day);
1/   Taken as 75% of the current average daily consumption of foodgrains
(16 oz per day).
2/   It is assumed that about 15% of the potential labor supply is permanently
employed in non-farm activities and hence unavailable for farm work. Ac-
cordingly, peak farm labor availability would be about 2 M man-days per
month at present and 2.3 M man-days per month at full development in 1985.
82



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(c) at a monthly labor demand corresponding to present peak
level (about 70% of full farm labor supply), the marginal
cost would be equal to the maximum market rate (Tk 8
per man-day, see Annex 10);
(d) when the farm employment is equal to or larger than the
full supply from the area, the opportunity cost would be
about Tk 10 per man-day, since at this wage rate, a
large number of migrants would be attracted to the project
area.
16.       Wqhile the shape of the curve at the upper level can be viewed with
reasonable confidence, the segments corresponding to low employment levels
are open to debate. Fortunately, however, the lower levels of employment
occur in both "with" and "without" situations and hence the incremental
costs of farm labor are not sensitive to the shape of the curve for low
employment levels.
17.       The monthly marginal opportunity cost can be read directly from
the opportunity cost curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. The
total economic cost of farm labor is then the area under the curve up to
that level of employment. Table 1 shows the marginal and the total oppor-
tunity costs for the various months. Presently, the estimated marginal
cost varies from a low of Tk 2.5/day in September and October to a high of
Tk 8/day in August. The increase in boro cultivation in the future would
result in a somewhat more even demand for farm labor. The two extreme oppor-
tunity costs under "with" project conditions are estimated to be Tk 2.5/day
(in September) and Tk 7.4/day (in June). The total annual economic cost of
farm labor is estimated to increase from about Tk 25.4 million at present
to about Tk 26.2 million under "without project" conditions and about Tk 37.3
million under "with project" conditions. Thus, the economic cost (in domestic
prices) of using the additional 2.6 million man-days over the "without proj-
ect" requirements is estimated to be about Tk 11.1 million, or an average of
Tk 4.3/man-day. In view of the unemployment and underemployment situation
prevailing in rural Bangladesh, this valuation is considered appropriate.
18.       Since the economic opportunity costs of farm labor as estimated
above are in domestic prices, it is necessary to multiply them with the
standard conversion factor (0.75) to convert them into "border prices." On
this basis, the economic cost of farm labor is Tk 19.60 M without the project
and Tk 27.95 M with the project; the incremental cost being Tk 8.6 M.
May 1977
83



BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
Jan     Feb      Mar     Apr      May     Jun      Jul       M      Sep      Oct      Nov      Dec         Total
1/
Farm Labor Requirements         p           0.21    0.45    0.50    0.82    0.28    0.74    1.24    1.40    0.15    0.16    0.94    0.61                 7.50
(million man-days)           W           0.23    0.47    0.54    0.93    0.32    0.76    1.27    1.42    0.20    0.19    1.06    0.72                  8.11
W           0.68    1.49    0.64    0.84    0.77    1.53    0.93    1.18    0.22    0.20    1.28    0.97                10.73
Farm Labor Requirement          p          11.00   23.00   25.00   41.00   14.00   37.00   62.00   70.00    8.00    8.00   47.00   31.00
(7 of "Peak" monthly         w          10.00   20.00   23.00   40.00   14.00   33.00   55.00   62.00    9.00    8.00   46.00   31.00
labor supply 2/)             W          30.00   65.00   28.00   37.00   33.00   66.00   40.00   51.00   10.00    9.00   56.00   42.00
Marginal Opp. Cost              P           2.70    3.40    3.50    4.50    2.80    4.20    6.80    8.00    2.50    2.50    4.80    3.90
of Labor (Tk/day)3/          W            2.60    3.20    3.40    4.40    2.80    4.00    5.80    6.80    2.50    2.50    4.80    3.90
w           3.80    7.30    3.70    4.20    4.00    7.40    4.40    5.20    2.60    2.50    5.90    4.50
Total Economic Cost             P           0.49    1.22    1.38    2.67    0.67    2.29    4.92    6.10    0.34    0.36    3.20    1.80                25.44
of Labor (million Tk)3/      W           0.53    1.22    1.46    2.98    0.77    2.28    4.68    5.62    0.45    0.43    3.60    2.12                 26.14
w           1.97    6.12    1.82    2.60    2.31    6.44    2.98    4.18    0.51    0.45    4.74    3.15                37.27
1/  P = Present
1W = Future without project
W = Future with project
2/  Peak monthly supply - Present - 2.0 million man-days
Future  = 2.3 million man-days
3/  In domestic prices.
OD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



AMEl 12
Figure 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marginal Economic Cost of Farm Labor
TAKA/MAN-DAY
10       -      -  -  ---------- -
6 _______J~~~~~~~~~~~~I  1
4                     I
0    I   I   I   I    I  1                              LABOR DEMAND
10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100            AS % OF LOCAL
SUPPLY
World Bank-9687(R)
85



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.        The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Prices: The farm gate prices used in the economic analysis
are derived from projected 1985 world market prices expressed
in early 1977 currency values. Appropriate adjustments have
been made for freight, handling and processing. A standard
conversion factor of 0.75 is used to reflect the prevailing
regime of import taxes and quotas. The price assumptions
are discussed in more detail in Annex 10.
(b) Benefits. The direct benefits of the project would be:
increased agricultural production; reduced transport costs
through improved navigation possibilities on khals, and
increased fish yields. The project would also have
substantial secondary employment effects in trade and
transport. In this analysis, however, only increased
agricultural production due to the project is counted as
a project benefit. Expected crop yields, acreages and
production are shown in Annex 9. The gross benefits are
summarized in Table 1.
(c) Crop Production Costs. Per acre input requirements are
shown in Annex 11. Prices for inputs other than farm
labor are discussed in Annex 10. Farm labor is evaluated
at a seasonally adjusted opportunity cost. The economic
cost (in domestic prices) per man-day is estimated at Tk 4.3,
which is about 55% of the peak wage rate (for a detailed
analysis, see Annex 12). Crop production costs (except
irrigation costs) are summarized in Table 2.
(d) Low-Lift Pump Costs. Since about 330 low-lift pumps would
be operating in the area even without the project, invest-
ment and O&M are based on 770 additional pumps only. It is
assumed that the pumps will be replaced every seventh year.
The annual O&M cost per pump is shown in Table 3. Out of
a total annual cost of Tk 9,000 per pump, about Tk 1,000
would be in taxes and duties (mostly on diesel and spares)
and Tk 5,000 in foreign exchange. Deducting taxes and
86



ANNEX 13
Page 2
duties and multiplying the local costs with the standard
conversion factor, gives an economic O&M cost of Tk 7,250
per pump. For the 770 pumps, the cost would amount to
Tk 5.6 M (say Tk 6 M) per year.
(e) Investment Costs: All investment costs except price
contingencies (Tk 153.5 M), cost of low-lift pumps
(Tk 36.3 M) and taxes and duties (Tk 116.8 M) 1/ are
included in the economic analysis. On this basis, the
investment costs are estimated at Tk 473.4 of which
Tk 200.6 M would be in foreign exchange. Using the
standard conversion factor of 0.75 for the local costs
results in an estimated "economic" cost of Tk 405.2 M
(say Tk 405 M). The estimated salvage value of the
equipment and materials used in the construction of
project works, Tk 20 M in economic terms, is credited
against project cost after project completion. Project
facilities are assumed to have a useful life of 40 years.
It is assumed that the embankments would require major
repairs every ten years at an estimated economic cost of
Tk 5.0 M. The regulator gates would be replaced after
20 years at a cost of Tk 40 M, and the cross dam would
require major repairs at a cost of Tk 35 14 once during
the project life. The replacement/repairs costs are
included as investment costs in years 16, 26 and 36 of
the project.
(f) Operation and Maintenance: The annual O&M costs for
project works and facilities (excluding low-lift pumps)
are estimated at Tk 5 M of which about 1 M would be in
foreign exchange. Accordingly in economic terms, the
O&M cost would amount to about Tk 4 M per annum.  These
costs are used as a cost stream against the project
benefits.
(g) Development Phasing: Construction would be phased over
five years. Some benefits from khal excavations would
accrue even before the project is fully complete.
Although all new low-lift pumps would be delivered by
the last year of construction, the formation of pump
groups is likely to lag somewhat. Also, it would take
a couple of years before the farmers adapt to the new
cropping patterns. Consequently, it is assumed that
1/   Taxes and duties in the amount of Tk 30.2 million are included
in the price contingencies and the cost of low-lift pumps.
87



ANNEX 13
Page 3
full project benefits would not be achieved for three
years after all project construction is completed. On
this basis, the overall phasing of the benefits is
estimated to be as follows:
Year                  0-4      5    6    7    8    9
Net benefits
(% of full develop-   0       15   60   80   90   100
ment benefits)
Economic Rate of Return
2.        Resulting cost and benefit measures are shown in Table 4.  Assuming
a 40-year life of the project, the economic rate of return is estimated at
16%.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        Several tests were made to determined the sensitivity of the rate
of return estimates to various alternative assumptions. These reflect the
uncertainty in some of the more important factors in the analysis.
88



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Rate of Return
(a)  Basic Case                                                        16%
(b) Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
(i)  SCF = 1.0                                                   13%
(ii)  SCF = 0.6                                                    18%
(c)  Farm labor valued at the peak                                     14%
market wage (Tk 8/man-day)
(d)  Commodity Prices decrease by 15%                                  13%
(e)  Crop Inputs Prices increase by 15%                                15%
(f)  Construction and Replacement Costs increase by 15%                14%
(g)  Fuel and Operating Costs increase by 25%                          16%
(h) Irrigated Area
(i)  Reduction of the net irrigated area                         13%
from 50,000 ac to 40,000 ac due
to increased water usage upstream of
the project area
(ii)  Reduction of the irrigated area per                         16%
pump from 45 ac to 40 ac
(i) Delays
(i)  Construction completed after 7 years                        14%
instead of 5 years
(ii)  Full agricultural development delayed                       14%
by two years
Hence it may be concluded that the project is moderately sensitive to changes
in rice prices, delays, increased upstream water usage and the estimated SCF.
May 1977
89



ANNEX 13
Table 1
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/
Annual Gross Benefits (Economic )
Item                Price      Production ('000 tons)   Gross Value (Tk M)
(Tk/ton)                 Incre-                     Incre-
W      W    ment        W        W      ment
Aus Paddy              2,330      23.1    9.5  (13.6)    53.8    22.1   (31.7)
Aman                   2,490      47.8   57.0    9.2    119.0   141.9    22.9
Boro Paddy             2,330      21.0   78.4   57.4       48.9   182.7   133.8
Pulses & Oilseeds      4,020       2.4    2.4       -       9.6      9.6       -
Vegetables             1,340      13.4   29.9   16.5       18.0    40.1    22.1
Total                                                249.3   396.4   147.1
say  Tk 147 M
1/  W  =  Without Project,  W  =  With Project,  Increment  =  W-W.
90



ANNEX 13
Table 2
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/,2/
Annual Crop Production Costs (Economic)
Price              Quantity Used         Production Cost (Tk M)
Item               (Tk/Ton)      K       W    Increment               W    Increment
Fertilizers (Tons)
Urea                    2,950      3,390   8,130    4,740        10.00  23.98   13.98
TSP                     3,480      1,620   3,960    2,340         5.64  13.78    8.14
MP                      1,960        840   1,940    1,100         1.65   3.80    2.15
Sub-total                             5,850  14,030    8,180        17.29  41.56   24.27
Pesticides (Tons)
Diazinon               18,800         22       39        17       0.41   0.73    0.32
Sumithion              61,600         22       39        17       1.36   2.40    1.04
Sub-total                                44       78        34       1.77   3.13    1.36
3/
Farm Labor (M m-days)        2-6       8.11   10.73      2.62       19.60  27.95    8.35
Animal Labor (M a-days)4/  7.5         1.9      2.1       0.2       14.25  15.75    1.50
Seed (Tons)
HYV Paddy               3,0005,/     640   1,340       700        1.92   4.02    2.10
Local Paddy             2,6006/   1,840       510   (1,330)       4.78   1.33    3.45
Pulses & Oilseeds       4,00o6/      130      130        -        0.52   0.52        -
Vegetables              2,ooo70/     150      300      560        0.30   0.60    0.30
Sub-total                                                            7.52   6.47   (1.05)
Miscellaneous                                                        2.39   4.78    2.39
Total                                                       62.82  99.64   36.82
say TkaL 
1/  W = Without Project, W = With Project, Increment = W-W
2/ Excluding irrigation costs.
3/ Price in Tk/m-day. See Annex 12 for detail.
4/ Price in Tk/a-day.
5/ Assuming 20% replacement.
6/ Approximately same as crop prices.
7/ 50% premium over crop price.
91



ANNEX 13
Table 3
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Annual O&M Cost of a 2-Cusec Low-Lift Pump
Item                                                 Cost in Tk
A. Direct O&M Costs
(a)  Pay of operator annual lump sum                                1,000
(b)  Spare parts $ Tk 400 per annum 1/                                300
(c)  Diesel, 600 gallons $ Tk 9.50 per gallon 2/                    5,700
(d)  Lub. oil 10 gallons $ Tk 50 per gallon                           500
Sub-total (A)                                      7,500
B. Indirect O&M Costs
(a)  Salaries & allowances of BADC staff                            1,200
(b) Maintenance of workshop buildings and
structures 3/                                                     50
(c)  Depreciation of workshop equipment                               250
Sub-total (B)                                      1,500
Total O&M Cost (A,+ B)                             9,000
1/ Mlajor spares (estimated to cost Tk 500 per annum) are procured together
with the pumps.   Cost of these are included in the investment costs of
the pumps.
2/ Assuming 1,000 hours of operation per year.
3/ No provision is made for depreciation of workshop buildings and structures
since construction costs are included as project investments.
92



ANNEX 13
Table 4
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
Civil Works                      Low-lift Pumps                     Crop Production
Construction       Replacement    O&M         Investment &    O&M          Incremental    Incremental
Year                Cost             & Repair       Costs      Replacement      Costs           Gross         Crop Produc-
Cost                        Costs                       Benefits       tion Costs
1                   74                 0             0             0             0               0               0
2                   88                 0             0             0             0               0               0
3                  101                 0             0             0             0               0               0
4                   97                 0             0             0             0               0               0
5                   45                 0             0            21             1              22               6
6                  (20)                0             4             0             4              88              22
7                    0                 0             4             0             5             118              30
8                    0                 C             4              0            6             132              34
9-11                 0                 C             4             0             6             147              37
12                   0                 C             4            21             6             147              37
13-15                0                 0             4              0            6             147              37
16                   0                 5             4             0             6             147              37
17-18                0                 0             4              0            6             147              37
19                   0                 0             4            21             6             147              37
20-25                0                 0             4              0            6             147              37
26                   0                80             4            21             6             147              37
27-32                0                 0             4              0            6             147              37
33                   0                 0             4            21             6             147              37
34-35                0                 0             4              0            6             147              37
36                   0                 5             4              0            6             147               37
37-39                0                 0             4              0            6             147              37
40                   0                 0             4             21            6             147               37
41-45                0                 0             4              0             6            147               37
Economic Rate of Return = 16%






0Ka bo   j        J1. 30,                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~912'00'                   90230'
D                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
n~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
Daudkondi  Chandina            ~)                                                                                                            i23'30'
Matiab               0~Brur     -        -                  A\                                                                      ~            Rvrsystems
/                                                           *---    Railways
CUITT     C                             - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District boundaries
oksho             eon~~~001                                                                                   International boundaries
H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         District towns
;?  T?                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Other urban areas
0Ramgo  ~     ~       a.    ~      s      MUHURI                          IR A C            ~         I.~0                                       0     2
nba,6                                                                         0     ~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10    20  0 40 23~00'
Kcurnaf/ i     .                                       Kilorsot...
okshmipur  haumohani   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Reervoir
Hu%^ No.khali ~ ~~~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~ EX[D I/\ 
0D       Companiganj0                                                                                     I k           
Sitabanda     PROJE TFUL                                           NEPAL)I
Miles
. . . . ... -"  CHA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  D 
Ni                                            1N 0 IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KAPTAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I T      Chan m ona                                               A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
S                                    -.                        bURMA C,'~~~~~2.'?4






IBRD 11533
;2195         BAW:;:,:2i,-.pl:- rm ffi :;S::GLAi)E*I:::: g   L E.'1 R'M D    i '  WW^::::!:i                              22!55' |                       22-50                           2245                           APRIL   1975
; ::7ig;      ; 77:  15 6 iaW; Drv$ ;m                                                                                         22<                             2'5'' n; W>|
9135'-
0  J'-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                    XEIGCNRLTUTR
E ~~~~~~~~~~)7 f     :  S  . :;0;   e 7  4 iWw8/>IJG
C                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~PROPETOSD3KU LNEDARY
-     Sp/~nj~  -B'~or   n.'  -                                                                                                                                          PRPSDCNRO  TUTR
7                                  ;;C;              Fri                                                                                                       MAJOR!--=  CHANNEL;E  IMPROVEMENTfg)3  a i <   B{' 19X%;g  W*#IWIWtz0WSISjlS.!iti 5H VAtEITGEBKE
- -MINOR CHANNEL IMPROVEMEMT
Z'ZNEW CHANNEL
'V   ~~~~~~~~~~~  v~~~~~~~~~  1~~~~~~~~3S~~~~~~~~~ 5' ~~~~~~~~~AREAS BELOW 13.jT.
~~~~~~~~~~~  'is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 VLN
s-'~~~~~~~~-~~~~--'-   ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~JI                                                                                                              ______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED ROAD4
rTIE 1-T. {U2&0< 5  SBMETALLED ROAD
gt  iN DI                       * hE        ;         '0                                                                                                                                        UNMEy i DNTALLED ROAD
-;: ;                                                                                                                                                               - - , . .RAILROAD                 91230RL
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
F. m    THANA HEADQUARTEES
MILES
2305           2300                          ~~~~~~~~~~2 2'55'               22V50                           22~45'
;~~~~~~~~~~~2-0                                              23'05                           23sua  _/v  -J       ,t-   > g   00                                                                             DCNRO TUTR



