Document of
The World Bank
FILE         COPY                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2100-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 2, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk.) is officially set
relative to the Pound Sterling. From May 17, 1975 through April 25,
1976, the official value was 30.0 to the Pound Sterling. Since
the latter date the value has been changed on three occasions, the
most recent being on November 3, 1976, when it was set at 25.45 to
the Pound Sterling. The Pound is floating relative to the U.S.
dollar and consequently the Taka-U.S. dollar rate is subject to
change. The exchange rate used in preparing the data for this
report is Tk. 15 = U.S.$1 (except where stated to the contrary).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENT
1 acre                     =     0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile                     =     1.609 kilometers
1 sq. mile                 =     640 acres
=     259 ha
1 foot                     =     30.5 centimeters
1 maund (md)               =     82.3 lbs.
=     37.3 kg
1 long ton                 =     1.016 metric tons
=     27.2 md
1 cu. ft. per second             0.028 m3/second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BADC     =      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BWDB     =     Bangladesh Water Development Board
CEC      =     Central Evaluation Committee
HYV      =     High Yielding Varieties (of rice)
IRDP     =     Integrated Rural Development Program
PIC      =     Project Implementation Committee
TCCA     =     Thana Central Cooperatives Association
TTDC     =     Thana Training and Development Center
GLOSSARY
Aman     -     Rice planted before or during monson and harvested
in November or December.
Aus      -     Rice planted during March and April and harvested
during July and August.
Boro     -     Rice planted in winter and harvested during the
period April to June.
Thana    -     Smallest administrative unit of Bangladesh Government
of which there are 413. Six or seven thanas form a
district, and there are 19 districts in the country.
FISCAL YEAR
Ends June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:           (a)  IDA Credit of US$21 million
(b)  IDA Administered Credit of Can$9.0 million,
US$8.6 million equivalent
Terms:            (a)  Standard IDA terms
(b)  Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:    The project includes:
(a)  construction of about 5 miles of coastal earthfill
embankments and a dam of about 1.5 miles across the
Feni River Channel;
(b)  Construction of a reinforced-concrete regulator
structure equipped with radial gates, and flap
gates;
(c)  construction of one major and 30 minor drainage
structures equipped with flap gates, and the
improvement of an existing drainage outlet;
(d)  improvement of 110 miles of natural channels
and the excavation of 6 miles of new channels;
(e)  improvement of 9 miles of existing roads and the
construction of 9 miles of new roads for access
to the main project works;
(f)  installation of about 1,100 low-lift pumps to
raise water from the channels to adjacent
farmlands;
(g)  provision of workshops, equipment, and vehicles
for maintenance of civil works and pumps;
(h)  construction of offices and housing for project
staff;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(i)  transportation (field vehicles, motorcycles and
bicycles), and agricultural equipment (hand sprayers)
grain dryers) to facilitate agricultural extension,
supporting services; and
(j)  consultant services to assist the Government in
project planning, design, supervision of con-
struction, and evaluation of the impact of the
project.
Estimated Cost:        US$52.0 million equivalent of which US$18.4 million
is expected to be in foreign exchange and US$33.6
million in local currency.
Local   Foreign    Total /a
(US$ million)
Land Acquisition                   0.50       -        0.50
Civil Works
Regulator and related works       13.13      7.87     21.00
Cross Darn and
Embankments                      3.71      1.74      5.45
Channels and Control
Structures                       2.07     0.29       2.36
0 + N Facilities                   0.20      0.07      0.27
Sub-Total                    19.61     9.97      29.58
Vehicles and Agric.
Equipment                        0.22     0.18       0.40
Low-Lift Pumps                     0.87      1.33      2.20
0 + M Facilities                   0.04      0.09      0.13
Sub-total                     1.13     1.61       2.73
Consulting Services                2.00      1.67      3.67
Management and
Administration                   1.56      -         1.56
Base Cost
Estimate                    24.29    13.25     37.54
Contingencies
Physical                         2.70     1.53       4.23
Price                            6.60     3.63      10.23
Sub-Total                     9.30     5.16      14.46
TOTAL                        33.60 /b  18.40     52.0 /b
/a   Discrepancies in currency conversion due to rounding.
/b   Includes US$9.8 million equivalent taxes and duty.



Estimated Disbursements:
US$ (million)
Annual                          Cumulative
Fiscal Year       IDA   IDA Administered  Total     IDA   IDA Administered    Total
1978            1.42       0.58          2.00     1.42        0.58          2.00
1979           3.55        1.45          5.00    4.97         2.03           7.00
1980           4.96        2.04          7.00     9.93        4.07          14.00
1981           5.32        2.18          7.50    15.25        6.25         21.50
1982           4.25        1.75          6.00    19.50        8.00         27.50
1983            1.50       0.60          2.10    21.00        8.60         29.60
Procurement:      (a)  Vehicles, equipment and materials would be procured
after international competitive bidding.   A 15%
preference margin, or prevailing customs duty if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$10,000 each whose aggre-
gate would not exceed US$200,000, would be through
normal Government procurement procedures which are
acceptable.
(b) Bids for the major civil works contract for construc-
tion of the main gated regulator have been obtained
after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank-Group Guidelines.
(c) Other civil works, (channel excavation, drainage
structures, embankments) which are relatively small,
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA.
Consultants:      Consultants would be retained to advise and assist with
the preparation of work programs, designs, and contract
documents, and the supervision of construction. About
600 man-months of consultant services would be provided
about 250 of which would be expatriate.
Rate of Return: 16 percent
Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 725-a-BD dated May 31, 1977.
South Asia Region
Map: IBRD Map No. 11532






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the People's Republic of Bangladesh totalling the equivalent
of US$29.6 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an irrigation de-
velopment project around the confluence of the Muhuri and Feni Rivers in
Southeastern Bangladesh. One credit of US$21.0 million would be made from
IDA resources; a second credit of Can$9.0 million (US$8.6 million equivalent)
would be made from Canadian funds administered by IDA in accordance with the
terms of the recently approved Agreement between the Government of Canada
and the Association.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Mission was in the field in November 1976 and its report
entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Performance and Development Policy
Issues" (Report No. 1469-BD, dated May 19, 1977) was distributed on May 23,
1977.
Introduction
3.        The Basic Economic Report described the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlined a course of action to maximize the development
of the country's resources. The high ratio of population to natural re-
sources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weaknesses of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and 3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variations within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by mas-
sive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastation of the cyclone
of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts of food
aid were distributed, refugees were resettled, and vital port, road and rail
facilities were brought back into operation. A new constitution was adopted,
and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought Sheik Mujibur
Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming parliamentary
majority.



- 2 -
5.        Overall economic progress since independence, however, has been
inadequate. Agricultural output remains insufficient for a population
growing at close to 3% a year. Industrial output, heavily dependent on
imports, has been affected badly by scarcity of foreign exchange. State
enterprises have been hampered by management deficiencies, excessive govern-
ment controls, shortages and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant
and finance less than half of import needs. Bangladesh also has been severely
affected by an adverse shift in its terms of trade since 1973. Trade pro-
blems are compounded by dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million
tons, even in years of favorable weather, and by heavy reliance on imported
industrial raw materials. Government revenue has been insufficient to meet
current and development expenditure needs. Bangladesh has had to depend
on large flows of external assistance to support its development effort.
6.        The present Government, in power since November, 1975, rules by
martial law. General Zia Rahman, the Army Chief of Staff, serves both as
President and Chief Martial Law Administrator. The two chiefs of the other
defense services serve as Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The three
service heads and eleven civilians form a President's Advisory Council. Each
of the members has responsibility for one or more ministries. General Rahman's
political program was endorsed by an overwhelming majority in a referendum
held in May 1977. This program called for national elections in 1978 and
local elections, at municipal and district level, later this year. (Union
Councils were elected in January 1977). The current Government has intro-
duced economic reforms such as a reduction of producer and consumer subsidies,
agricultural taxation and import liberalization and has indicated that it
intends further reforms in these areas. It has also pursued prudent monetary
and fiscal policies. However, the fundamental problems of the country, namely
overpopulation, weak administration, inadequate infrastructure, insufficient
foodgrain output and inadequate resources for development continue to confront
Bangladesh.
The Current Economic Situation
7.        On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with a standby arrangement with the IMF. Its principal elements
consisted of a credit restraint program and elimination of deficit financing,
combined with some import liberalization.    This was preceded by a devaluation
of 58% in May 1975, which subsequently, as a result of a link with the Pound
Sterling, has led to a cumulative de facto depreciation of 90%. The record
so far is that the credit restraint program has been a success: after an
estimated rate of inflation of about 80% in 1974, prices declined by 10% in
1975, and price stability continued throughout 1976. The Government not only
avoided deficit financing; it retired some of its debts to the banking system
in 1975. The import licensing program was relaxed during 1975/76; besides
increasing allocations to an average of 95% of entitlements, licenses were
renewed on expiry and there is greater fungibility in the use of exchange
allocations for selected categories of imports. Improvements in this area
continued in 1976/77: import requirements of all public corporations and high
priority private sector industries were fully met, the role of the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh was further reduced, and the list of items permitted
under the Wage Earner's Scheme for imports by the private sector was enlarged.



- 3 -
8.        At the beginning of 1975/76 the credit restrictions may have been
too pervasive and insufficiently selective; jute purchases by trading cor-
porations were hampered, production credit was scarce, and import allocations
could not be utilized. Measures were taken to rectify this situation. Over-
all, however, the credit restraint program has been salutary because of its
favorable impact on the rate of inflation. It has been reinforced by other
factors:
(a)   The output of rice in 1975/76 is estimated to have been
about 12.8 million tons, representing an increase of about
14% over 1974/75. This record harvest is not expected to be
equalled in 1976/77; output may decline (3%) to 12.4
million tons, as a result of less favorable weather.
Rice prices which remained stable for most of 1976/77
have begun to rise in the last quarter.
(b)   The private sector has a greater role in the retail and
distributive trades, but stringent measures have been
implemented to curtail hoarding and smuggling. The
distribution controls over some consumer goods have
also been liberalized.
(c)   The supply position for raw materials has improved.
Moreover, consumers have benefitted in real terms by
substantial declines in the prices of key imports.
9.        The devaluation in May 1975 made possible a reduction in the
price of raw jute exports from the unrealistic level of i 200 per ton
(late 1974 and early 1975) to i 150 per ton (from July 15, 1975), f.o.b.
Chittagong. The reduction in price led to a significant increase in
sales of raw jute but export volume in 1976/77 has been constrained by an
inadequate crop. The volume of exports of jute manufactures also improved
as a result of improved price competitiveness as well as a recovery in world
markets. However their value showed no commensurate improvement because of a
large fall in average price. Bangladesh's non-traditional exports have derived
benefits from the devaluation and a wide array of export incentives; as a
result, their value is projected to increase by 36% in 1976/77.
10.       The agricultural sector did quite well in 1975/76 with overall pro-
duction increasing more than 10%. Favorable weather was essentially responsi-
ble for the good harvests, since the basic problems affecting the sector remain
unresolved.   The small-scale irrigation program (comprising low-lift pumps,
and shallow and deep tubewells) has again fallen short of its target. Pro-
cedures for the allocation of fertilizer, though much improved, continue to
be in need of improvement. Credit is insufficient and inadequately distri-
buted, though the Government in recognition of this need mounted a large
credit program in 1976/77. Because of the steep fall in the free market
price, government procurement of rice increased dramatically in 1975/76
and rose to an estimated 415 thousand tons. Nonetheless, the support price



-4-
was not maintained throughout the country because of limited purchasing
facilities, stringent moisture content requirements, and unfamiliar payment
procedures. This led farmers to sell their paddy at prices below the procure-
ment price. In 1976/77 the Government is likely to procure about 100,000
tons less than in the previous year, but is relying more heavily on the private
trade as an instrument for supporting farmgate prices. To achieve this it has
relaxed its regulations governing stock accumulation and has expanded credit
facilities. Efforts are under way to rehabilitate approximately 200,000 tons
of derelict storage capacity and a study of further storage requirements is is
progress.
11.       In the industrial sector capacity utilization has improved in a
number of industries, and the supply of raw materials and spares has improved.
Measures have recently been taken to reorganize those public enterprises,
which account for a major share of industrial output in order to improve
management and labor productivity through, among other measures, providing
them with operational autonomy in matters such as staffing.
Balance of Payments
12.       The impact of the extremely good foodgrain harvests and the policies
and measures instituted in 1975/76, were reflected in Bangladesh's 1976/77
balance of payments. The restrictive monetary and fiscal policies of 1975/76
were continued in 1976/77 and they continued to restrain demand. This, plus
reduced requirements for food imports and lower import prices reduced the
value of total imports by 27%. Export earnings showed an increase of 5%.
Exports benefited from a favorable climate for non-traditional exports, which,
in addition, were stimulated by a package of incentives. New items were added
to the list of export products eligible for export performance licenses, the
income tax rebate on earnings derived from non-traditional exports was doubled,
exporters were qualified for preferential credit and interest rates, and
priority was accorded them in the issuance of import licenses for the purchase
of raw material and machinery. These incentives are expected to contribute
substantially to a projected large expansion (36%) in the value of non-jute
exports. Consequently the trade deficit is expected to decline from $909
million in 1975/76 to US$537 million. The current account deficit in the
balance of payments is, therefore, expected to total US$512 million. However,
since external aid disbursements in 1976/77 are expected to total US$572 mil-
lion, inclusive of a cash grant of US$50 million, Bangladesh's international
reserves are expected to rise by US$72 million to $285 million at the end of
June 1977. This would be equivalent in value to about three months antici-
pated imports in 1977/78.



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
(million US$)
1974/75        1975/76     1976/77
(Actual)       (Actual)    Estimate
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         -1,402         -1,290 /b    -937
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)            358            381        400
Trade Balance                   -1,044           -909       -537
Other Current Account                      7             1         25
Current Account Balance         -1,037           -908       -512
Other Receipts and Payments (net)       272 /a         122         46
Amortization:   Long-term debt          -25            -78        -21 /c
Short term capital movements
(net) (including IMF)                  62                       -13 /d
Changes in Reserves (-=increase)       -196             50        -72
External Capital Disbursements          924            814        572
of which:
Food                               379            307        128
Commodity                          386            378        220
Project                            145            129        174
Cash                                 4             -          50
/a   Includes US$260 million of outstanding letters of credit.
/b   Includes an estimated settlement of US$24 million of outstanding
letters of credit carried over from 1974/55.
/c   Including repayment of US$6 million on USSR Wheat Account.
/d   Including refund of a deposit of US$21 million made by the Kuwait
Central Bank.
Source:   Bangladesh Planning Commission and Bank estimates.
The M4edium Term Development Focus
13.        In its memorandum for the May 1976 Bangladesh Aid Group ileeting the
Government spelled out the focus of its development strategy for the medium-
term. Agriculture continues to be the cornerstone of its program. Within
agriculture the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural Development Strategy
which seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. Strong efforts
are to be made to expand the acreage of high yielding varieties of seed (HYV),
to intensify "Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input programs
and to improve the efficiency and capability of agricultural support institu-
tions. It is too early to say to what extent the Government's intentions will
be translated into realistic programs of action, but they represent an essen-
tial first step.
14.       A determined effort is to be made to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector and its contribution to economic growth. One element of
the new industrial strategy consists of measures to improve the climate for



- 6 -
payment of compensation for nationalized property, the encouragement of
foreign private investment collaboration in selected fields, the provision
of increased opportunities for private participation in domestic and foreign
trade, and steps to activate the capital market. The second element in
the strategy consists of a drive to improve the performance of public enter-
prises, through such measures as the grant of autonomy in matters of staff
management, pricing policies and inventory control, and creation of dis-
tribution networks. Programs for improvement in the performance and effici-
ency of the critical jute and cotton textiles industries, deriving from IDA's
Fourth and Fifth Imports Program Credits, have commenced. The focus in in-
dustry is on improvements in the quality of management, capacity utilization,
marketing, and profitability.
15.       The weak administrative framework, the frequent overlapping of
functions, and insufficient decentralization of authority have been impor-
tant reasons for delays in the execution of projects. The Government has
indicated its intention to remedy these defects and has taken positive steps
to reduce administrative bottlenecks impeding project execution. Discussions
are underway with the Government concerning provision of technical assistance
(with IDA funding) to the Planning Commission in the fields of overall plan-
ning and project preparation. Project preparation and implementation cells
are being set up in Ministries and Public Sector organizations, to identify,
develop, and monitor projects. A study to determine what needs to be done to
strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural
Development Corporation is underway, with assistance from IDA (paragraph 30).
16.       Despite a substantial revenue effort in recent years, Bangladesh
depends on foreign assistance, which finances about 80% of its development
expenditures. The Government has indicated its intention to reduce this
dependence and to improve its efforts to mobilize domestic resources. In
1976/77 total revenue is expected to increase by 11%, about twice the projected
rate of growth of GDP. Some new taxes and reductions in subsidies have been
introduced: (a) a tax on urban non-agricultural land has been introduced and
a tax on agricultural land holdings in excess of 8.4 acres imposed; (b) a water
charge has been levied at 3% of the gross increased benefit accruing to benefi-
ciaries of the Ganges-Kobadak, North Bengal Deep Tubewell, and Dacca-Narayanganj-
Demra Projects, and (c) the price of fertilizer has been increased by 20%.
17.       Population planning is being given high priority and is an integral
part of the Government's economic growth strategy. The Government, with the
assistance of IDA and bilateral donors, has developed a program which em-
phasizes a multi-sectoral approach including motivation, communication,
and education. This involves a major effort in training medical and para-
medical personnel, in co-ordinating several agencies and in devising pro-
grams for research and evaluation.
18.       The policies and measures initiated by the Government represent a
good start. Yet they are no more than a beginning in tackling the major
problems of expanding the output of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource
mobilization, promoting exports and improving administration. Successful
implementation of the measures already initiated and formulation of additional
measures are necessary in 1977/78.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on reactivation of
IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan before
the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an aggregate amount of
US$148.55 million (including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that
had been disbursed under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and
net of cancellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition, 17 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph
23, have been made totalling US$522.7 million. Of these US$325.0 million have
been for five program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricul-
tural development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member of
the IFC. Proposed credits for an Extension and Research Project and for an
Inland Water Transport Project are expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors shortly.
20.       The debt service ratio in 1974/75 was 9.8%.    For 1975/76, the ratio
was estimated at 22.8%; it is expected to decline to about 11.8% in 1976/77.
The large increase in debt service was due to the repayment of about US$50
million of short-term loans for foodgrain purchases made in the wake of the
floods of 1974. Agreement has been reached between the Government of Bang-
ladesh and most of the bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the
assumption by Bangladesh of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan be-
fore Bangladesh become independent. This will lead to some increase in debt
service from the levels prevailing through 1974/75. While the debt service
ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next several years, it may do so
by the mid 1980's unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid
provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank Group,
Bangladesh has agreed to accept liability for certain debt for projects vis-
ibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence. A consolidation
loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0
million were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangla-
desh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise significantly over
the next few years from the present level of about 22%.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Present disbursement performance under the program credits
is good, slightly ahead of estimates made during appraisal. In contrast, dis-
bursements under project credits have lagged far behind expectations. Reasons
for this include problems associated with release of local funds, clearance of
contracts, employment of consultants and appointment of needed staff. The
Government of Bangladesh has taken steps aimed at eliminating the most press-
ing of the present bottlenecks, and it is hoped that this will lead to
accelerated project implementation. The release of local funds for projects
to semi-autonomous government agencies now requires one application per year
instead of the previous requirement for quarterly applications. The approval
of the President is no longer required for contracts; the ceiling for contracts



- 8 -
which can be approved directly by the project implementing agencies has been
raised from Taka 700,000 to Taka 10 million. Similarly the requirement that
the President approve all consultants' contracts has been waived. The respon-
sibility now devolves upon the ministries responsible for the project agencies
to approve the appointment of consulting firms for projects with National
Economic Council approval, or for project preparation activities. Finally,
the authorization of the appointment of staff is being made automatic in the
case of approved projects.
22.        The IDA project lending program increasingly has concentrated on
the rural sector, and specifically on food production. The Ashuganj Fertilizer,
Barisal Irrigation, Karnafuli Irrigation, Rural Development and Agricultural
and Rural Training Projects, as well as the proposed project, all fit into
this strategy. Other priority projects are at an advanced stage of prepara-
tion - many of them in the rural sector. These include a jute development
project. While development of the rural sector must have top priority, the
growth of other sectors cannot be neglected. Particular emphasis should
be placed upon projects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector, or
which process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the strain
on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Finally emphasis must be placed
upon improving Bangladesh's project preparation and implementation capability.
Given its low per capita income, Bangladesh is heavily dependent on foreign
assistance to help finance its investment requirements. In view of Bangladesh's
difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should cover all foreign
exchange costs.     Taking into account the level of financing expected to be
available from other external lenders, and in order to direct IDA lending to
those sectors (such as agricultural and rural development) where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture, as Bangladesh's most important economic sector, accounts
for more than 55% of the nation's GDP and 75% of employment.    The rice crop,
which covers approximately 75-80% of the cultivated area, provides most of
the country's foodgrain requirements. Wheat acreage is still relatively small,
though it could become a more significant part of foodgrain supply. Since
independence jute cultivation has earned between 75 and 87% of Bangladesh's
foreign exchange, either directly, through the export of raw jute, or indirectly
through the export of jute goods. At the same time, jute manufacturing is
Bangladesh's most important industry.
24.       Bangladesh lies on a deltaic plain of over 33 million acres, of which
approximately 22.5 million acres are cultivated. Most of the soils are fer-
tile. It has a tropical monsoon climate with high rainfall (over 50 inches
a year). About 80% of the rainfall is concentrated in the monsoon months
of June to October, with the remainder occurring primarily during the period
March to May. In areas with adequate moisture, many farmers plant two or
more crops, resulting in a relatively high cropping intensity (about 135%



-9-
in recent years). There are, however, many problems in the agricultural
sector: few opportunities exist for expanding the area under crops; as much
as one-third of the country is threatened by severe annual floods; during
the dry season much of the land remains fallow due to lack of fresh water;
severe cyclones periodically afflict farms near the coast; with Bangladesh's
extremely high population density, farms are generally small and fragmented,
and agriculture is characterized largely by subsistence farming. As a result
of these factors, while population has grown at about 3% per year during the
last ten years, foodgrain production has increased less rapidly resulting in
substantial deficits foodgrain supply and a consequent need for large-scale
foodgrain imports.
25.       Faced with these problems the Government's development strategy
concentrates on increasing agricultural (particularly foodgrain) production
through the rapid spread of new high-yielding rice varieties (HYV), with pro-
vision, where possible, of irrigation by low-lift pumps and tubewells. Irri-
gation has thus become of crucial importance to increase cropping intensity
and yields, and to decrease uncertainties and wide fluctuations in the farmers'
production. However, even with improved and expanded irrigation facilities and
an increase in crop production, Bangladesh will continue to require substantial
foodgrain imports for a number of years.
Irrigation in Bangladesh
26.       The development of water resources in Bangladesh which involves
irrigation, flood control, drainage, and protection from both saline intrusion
and saline inundation has presented many difficulties. The need to maintain
a minimum flow in the rivers during the dry season (both in order to prevent
saline intrusion and harmful effects on navigation and fisheries), limits the
potential for surface water irrigation. The flat terrain for the most part
precludes the development of large storage reservoirs for either controlling
the impact of the floods or releasing water for irrigation in the dry season.
Poor transportation facilities cause problems in moving equipment and mater-
ials to construction sites. In addition, a high degree of land fragmentation
necessitates the formation of and cooperation among a large number of farmers
for full utilization of even minor irrigation works.
27.       Farmers in Bangladesh have for centuries used bucket-lift irri-
gation methods for cultivating their land near the numerous rivers, man-made
channels, and low-lying water bodies. In the 1960s, much of the development
effort was focused on large scale gravity irrigation and flood control proj-
ects such as the Ganges-Kobadak, Chandpur and Coastal Embankment Projects.
Although these projects now provide irrigation to about 200,000 acres and
flood protection to aboi- 1.5 million acres, their overall impact, particularly
in view of the massive investment involved, has been disappointing. Most of
these projects have suffered from large cost overruns and long implementation
delays and benefits to-date have generally been much smaller than projected.
Part of the reason for the disappointing results has been the all-pervasive
weaknesses in implementation capacity. However, in retrospect, questionable
technical and economic feasibilities were also partly reponsible for the
results. Considerably more successful have been small pumps (low-lift,



- 10 -
diesel-driven pumps of one or two cubic feet per second capacity) which were
introduced in the early 1960s. Their introduction was the key factor in
expanding dry-season irrigation from 1 million acres in 1960 to over 2.7 mil-
lion acres in 1977. The major item in irrigation development in Bangladesh
is now the low-lift pump program of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC).
28.       In view of the favorable response of farmers to low-lift pump
irrigation, the Government is giving priority to projects that would create
suitable conditions for this type of development. Low-lift pump irrigation
is already practised in the Muhuri Project area but pump utilization is
limited by water availability and sea-water intrusion. With the provision
of water control, the area would become suitable for the expansion of low-
lift pump irrigation. Flood levels do not inhibit the cultivation of HYV
rice during the monsoon season, and existing channels provide a natural
water distribution system.
29.       Prior to the independence of Bangladesh, two IDA financed water
control projects were completed, and some pumps and engines were finance
under IDA agricultural credit projects. Currently, IDA is financing the
Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD, 1972), the Northwest Tube-
wells Project (Credit 341-BD, 1972), the Barisal Irrigation Project (Credit
542-BD, 1975), and the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD, 1976).
The implementation of all four irrigation projects currently in execution
is behind schedule by one to two years. Reasons for the slippage of the
implementation schedules are primarily administrative and include difficul-
ties in: hiring of consultants; appointment of project staff; release of
budgetary allocations; approval of contracts, and coordination among the
various implementing agencies. The Association and the Government have
been discussing specific measures to improve project execution over a long
period. The Government has already taken a number of steps to relax the
most serious bottlenecks. IDA and the Government have also given increased
emphasis to regular monitoring and supervision of the various projects in
order to identify and resolve potential problems at an early stage.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The proposed Muhuri Irrigation Project was prepared by consultants
financed under the Irrigation Engineering Credit (S-14) working with the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB). An Association mission appraised
the project in September/October 1974. A distinctive feature of the project
was the construction of a large gated regulator near the mouth of the Feni
River (see paragraph 32 below). In view of the structure's size and com-
plexity the contract for the regulator was to be let after international
competitive bidding. Given the difficulty in estimating the costs of the
works, and since it would require a major construction effort in Bangladesh it
was decided to postpone finalization of the amount of this credit until bids
on the regulator had been received. However, in order to obtain agreement
with the Government on the scope of the proposed project, negotiations were



held in August 1975, before the bidding process was initiated. The Project
Director was appointed in October 1975. Substantial delays occurred there-
after in finalizing a contract with consultants who were to prepare the tender
documents for the regulator and evaluate the bids for it. Agreement was
reached in May 1976, on the basis that the consultants' services required until
completion of the bid evaluation would be financed under the First Technical
Assistance Credit (409-BD). After further delays in preparation of the tender
documents, bids were received on September 21, 1976. In early May 1977 agree-
ment in principle on the award of contract was reached with the Government
(for details see also paragraph 33). The appraisal report (No. 725-a-BD dated
May 31, 1977) on the project is being circulated separately. A supplementary
project data sheet appears as Annex III to this report.
Description of the Project
31.       The proposed project would provide reliable irrigation water supply
in four Thanas which are situated around the confluence of the Muhuri and Feni
Rivers in Southeastern Bangladesh. Improved flood control and drainage, and
improved agricultural supporting services would be provided to farmers in a
gross area of 99,000 acres and a net agricultural area of about 67,000 acres.
The project would enable a major increase in crop yields through the construc-
tion of facilities to create favorable conditions for growing HYV rice. Irri-
gation facilities provided by the project would expand the boro rice area
from the present 15,000 acres to about 50,000 acres. In the wet season, the
project would reduce flooding and allow supplementary irrigation, resulting
in a shift from local varieties to HYV on 10,000 acres. By preventing over-
land sea water intrusion, 3,000 acres of presently marginal and largely
uncropped land would be brought to high productivity. About 1,100 5-7 h.p.
diesel-powered low-lift pumps, each serving an average area of 45 acres, would
irrigate the area from an extensive network of natural and project-improved
channels. These channels would serve, along with the principal rivers, both
reservoir (storage) and canal (conveyance) functions with a minimum of water
loss.
32.       Low-lift pumping has already been adopted on large scale in
Bangladesh in areas where the rivers and natural channels carry fresh water
throughout the year. Within the Muhuri Project area a reservoir will be
formed by the construction of a large gated regulator near the mouth of the
Feni River. The reservoir would permit small pump irrigation to be extended
to at least 35,000 acres, presently unsuited for irrigation, by providing a
permanent source of fresh water. The regulator would eliminate sea-water
intrusion and tidal fluctuations in the natural river channels along which
the low-lift pumps will be located. Channel excavation would make small-
vessel navigation possible throughout the area. The regulator would also
improve flood drainage by freeing waterways from tidal surges. This would
allow discharge from the project area when tidal levels in the Sandwip Chan-
nel drop below reservoir level.
33.       Bids for the construction of the regulator structure were sought
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank-Group guide-
lines. However, some bidders were not responsive. Moreover, none of those



- 12 -
bidders that were responsive was adjudged fully qualified for the job. A local
firm having some previous experience in executing similar (although smaller)
civil works had tendered the lowest bid. However, since the works involved in
the Mluhuri Project are substantially more complex than any previous regulator
construction undertaken by any contractor in Bangladesh, it was decided to
discuss with the lowest bidder the possibility of providing to the firm fi-
nancial, managerial and technical assistance so as to enable it to execute the
works in timely fashion. Discussions with the firm and with Government on the
nature of scope of this assistance were substantially completed following a
mission to Bangladesh in February/March 1977. It has been agreed, inter alia,
that the lowest evaluated bidder will employ a four-man expatriate construc-
tion management team to assist it during project implementation. Provision
has been made in the credit amount for such assistance. Signing of a contract
between BWDB and the contractor who will construct the Feni Regulator on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (see Section 6.01(c) of draft Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)). In addition to pumps and civil works, the project would provide
supporting facilities and equipment, including operation and maintenance
facilities.
34.       Pump groups would be formed in the project area under the direction
of staff members of the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), who would
be assisted in pump location and distribution layout by BWDB and the project
consultants. Pump groups would construct their own water distribution systems
within areas served by each low-lift pump. IRDP would conduct training pro-
grams in improved irrigaton practices for selected members of each pump group
at the Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs).
35.       The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) in the
Ministry of Agriculture maintains extension agents at both the thana and union
levels. The Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs), an average of ten per thana,
are the basic field extension workers. Their work is supervised by Thana Agri-
culture Officers (TAO). As there is a vital need to strengthen agricultural
extension, the Government plans to replace the TAOs who are mostly diploma
holders, with college graduate Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) to ensure higher
technical competence. It also plans to extend extension services to the
village level by appointing a minimum of two Village Extension Agents (VEAs),
to replace the present one UAA, in each Union. The IDA-financed Rural Train-
ing Project (Credit 621-BD) would help to produce more trained personnel for
posting as VEA. IDA also expects to present shortly to the Executive Directors
a proposal for financing an Extension and Research Project (EARP) in the
Northwest region of Bangladesh for strengthening these services to the farmers.
It is expected that EARP would be a model for improvement of extension service
on a country-wide basis including in particular the areas under the proposed
Muhuri Project. The credit would provide funds for procurement of additional
jeeps, motorcycles and bicycles to improve training and extension services to
the farmers in the project area.
Project Execution
36.       The BWDB under the Ministry of Flood Control, Water Resources and
Power will have overall responsibility for management and execution of the



- 13 -
project works, and will be directly responsible for the design and for con-
struction of all civil works. Responsibility for procurement and distribution
of low-lift pumps would rest with BADC. IRDP would be responsible for the
formation of farmers' pump groups and their integration into the Thana Central
Cooperatives Association (TCCA) structure. The Mlinistry of Agriculture would
be responsible for strengthening extension services to the farmers. A senior
BWDB official has been appointed as Project Director to coordinate individual
agency activities. He will report to the Member, Planning and Implementation,
BWDB, and have the assistance of a Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
comprising senior technical officers of the participating agencies. The
Central Evaluation Committee (CEC), formed for the Barisal Project (Credit
542-BD) by a government order dated December 13, 1974 to periodically review
progress and problems on IDA-financed irrigation projects, would also function
for this project. Under the Chairmanship of a senior government official, the
members of the committee are the Secretaries of the various Ministries concerned
with project implementation and the Chief, Flood Control and Water Resources
Division, Planning Commission. The Member, Planning and Implementation, BWDB,
is secretary of the committee.
37.       Proposals for project management and interagency coordination have
been agreed upon, and the representatives of BWDB, BADC, IRDP and the Mlinistry
of Agriculture on the PIC have been appointed. Annual programs to be prepared
by the Project Director in consultation with the PIC before each contruction
season, would be drawn up and would detail the activities and works to be
implemented by each agency, including the cost estimates of the physical works.
The programs would be sent to IDA, by August 31 of each year, for review and
comment (See Section 3.04(b) of the draft DCA).
38.       Preparatory work on land aquisition, the preparation of access
roads for the project area and the setting up of the project implementation
organization commenced after Credit negotiations. For all additional work
under the project, the Government will retain a consulting firm to advise
and assist BWDB, its Project Officer and the other agencies responsible for
project implementation (see Section 3.03(a) of the draft DCA). The consultant
would have responsibility for the preparation of work programs, designs, and
contract documents and the supervision of construction. Terms and conditions
for continuing with the consulting services which were provided to BWDB in
obtaining and evaluating bids for the Feni Regulator have been agreed and the
formal appointment of such consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (see Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA). BWDB would be respon-
sible for the operation and maintenance of the regulator, and for the main-
tenance of the channels, the cross dam and all the embankments. The Government
has undertaken to make sufficient funds available at all times to operate and
maintain all facilities at acceptable standards. The Project Director would
be responsible for preparation of detailed manuals specifying project opera-
tion and maintenance procedures, and designating the responsible agencies and
officers to implement them. These manuals would be submitted to the Asso-
ciation for review and comment within 36 months of signing of the DCA (see
Section 4.02 of the draft DCA).



- 14 -
39.       The Government's prevailing policies on irrigation water charges
provide for gradual decreases in nationwide subsidies to farmers for low-lift
pumps. The farmers now pay charges which approximately cover the operation
and maintenance costs for the pumps. In addition, for projects involving
civil works (e.g. the proposed Muhuri Project) the Government has recently
imposed a charge equivalent to 3% of the value of the incremental gross
production resulting from the works. This charge would recover approximately
half of the operation and maintenance costs of the civil works. The Govern-
ment intends that farmers benefitting from primary project installations will
pay the full operating and maintenance costs and repay as much of the invest-
ment costs as practicable. For the Muhuri Project, it has been agreed that
the farmers would pay for the operation, maintenance and replacement of the
low-lift pumps. They would also pay for the full costs for operation and
maintenance of the civil works and for as large a portion of their capital
costs as appears compatible with the maintenance of adequate incentives to
participating farmers (see Section 4.03 of the draft DCA).
Project cost and Financing
40.       The project is estimated to cost US$52 million equivalent, includ-
ing US$9.8 million of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of
US$18.4 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$21 million together with the
proposed IDA administered credit of Can$9.0 million (US$8.6 million equiva-
lent) would finance 70% of project costs, net of taxes. The two credits
would cover the foreign exchange cost and US$11.2 million of the local cost.
The IDA administered credit would be in accordance with the terms of an
agreement between the Government of Canada and the Association which was
approved by the Board on April 12, 1977 and pursuant to a Development Credit
Agreement beteen the People's Republic of Bangladesh and the Association
acting as Administrator on behalf of the Government of Canada. The remaining
US$22.4 million would be contributed by the Government through annual budget
appropriations. It has been agreed that a project revolving fund would be
established (see Section 3.02 of the DCA). At the beginning of each month it
would be replenished so as to maintain a balance adequate to cover estimated
expenditures for the following three months. Establishment of the fund, and
the deposit therein of an initial amount of Tk. 3,000,000 is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (see Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA).
Once the project is completed, the recurrent cost of operating and maintaining
the facilities will be US$0.3 million equivalent per year.
Procurement
41.       Vehicles, equipment and materials would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$10,000 each, which are not practical for inter-
national tendering, would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. The aggregate cost of such items would not
exceed US$200,000.



- 15 -
42.       Bids have been received for the major civil works contract for con-
struction of the main gated regulator (estimated to cost about US$11.2 million,
net of taxes and contingencies) after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. International competitive bidding would
not be practical for the other civil works (channel excavation, drainage struc-
ture, embankments) with estimated cost of US$8 million (net of taxes and contin-
gencies). These works are relatively small, simple in nature, diverse in
location, construction would be seasonal, and they lend themselves to labor-
intensive construction. For these works, contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA. Construction equipment and imported materials
(estimated to cost US$4 million) for these works would however be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines.
Disbursements
43.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA and IDA administered credits
would be made over a period of five years at the rate of 100% of the cif cost
of directly imported vehicles, equipment and materials; at 100% of the ex-
factory price if manufactured locally and at 50% of the off-the-shelf price if
procured locally. For consultants' services, disbursement would cover 100%
foreign exchange costs and 70% of local costs. Disbursement for civil works
would be for 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures.
Retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 is recommended for expenditures on
staff housing and site preparation incurred after November 1, 1975 (see Sched-
ule I, paragraph 4 of the draft DCA). The IDA and IDA administered credits
would be disbursed pro rata in the ratio of approximately 21:8.6.
Benefits
44.       The primary national benefit from the project would be increased
rice production and the resultant foreign exchange savings. The population
in the project area would benefit directly from increased farm incomes and
an increase in employment opportunities in agriculture, transport and
marketing. The project has an estimated economic rate of return of about
16%. Alternative rates of return have been calculated on various unfavor-
able assumptions. Even with a combination of a two year delay in project
completion and a 15% decrease in commodity prices, the estimated economic
rate of return would still be 10%.
45.       The project would increase the irrigated area by 35,000 acres and
make irrigation more reliable on 15,000 acres of currently irrigated land.
This would cause a major shift in the cropping pattern and increase the
production of milled rice by some 35,000 tons. This represents annual gross
foreign exchange savings of about US$9.8 million (in 1977 dollars) based on
a projected rice price of US$280 per ton c.i.f. Chittagong. After deducting
foreign exchange costs of spares and replacements, fuel, fertilizer pesti-
cides, the net annual foreign exchange savings attributable to the project
would be about US$8.0 million. The demand for hired labor would also increase
substantially and thereby create additional employment opportunities for



- 16 -
landless laborers and submarginal farmers. Net farm incomes in the proj-
ect area would typically increase by about 30-40% under the project. Present
per capita income in the project area is estimated to be about two-thirds of
the national average, with about 70% of families below to level required for
minimum subsistence. While the project is not expected to change income dis-
tribution, it will substantially reduce the level of absolute poverty in the
area, with the proportion of the population below subsistence a level expected
to decrease to under 50%. Surveys and evaluation studies will be undertaken
to estimate the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project and
to assess the socio-economic characteristics of the project beneficiaries.
Risks
46.       The project faces considerable risks.   A regulator structure of the
kind envisaged has not been constructed before in Bangladesh and local con-
tractor capacity for executing large civil works is limited. Moreover the
pace of project implementation, especially in the water resources sector in
Bangladesh, has not been satisfactory, due in large measure to organizational
shortcomings and a lack of the kind of interagency coordination required for
successful project implementation in the sector. However measures--such as
the provision of substantial assistance to the BWDB and to the contractor to
be engaged to undertake the major civil works, and the setting up of an
implementation organization that provides for interagency coordination--have
been taken to mitigate possible difficulties and remove potential bottlenecks
to successful implementation.
Environmental Impact
47.       The overall environmental effects of the project are expected to
be beneficial. Public health should improve because of the increased avail-
ability of fresh water on a year-round basis. Irrigation-related diseases
such as bilharzia are not present in Bangladesh. In reclaiming salt-blighted
land along the coast, the project will enhance environmental conditions.
Existing fisheries in the area are small and the project would have little
adverse effect on them. Major carp can generally be expected to stay in the
area even during floodwater discharge through the proposed regulator. The
reservoir would have the potential to become an important area for fish pro-
duction if the planned pilot fish culture facilities on the Halda River are
developed and fingerlings of major carp become available. Provision has been
made in the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD) for consultant ser-
vices to assist in the formulation of a fisheries development program for the
Muhuri Project. The program would include the construction of a carp spawning
and rearing station on the Halda River.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Repub-
lic of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Development Credit Agreement



- 1 7 -
between the People's Republic of Bangladesh and the Association as administra-
tor on behalf of the Government of Canada, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and the text of the Resolution approving the proposed Credit
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
49.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA
credit include: (a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the IDA administered credit (other than the effectiveness of the IDA
credit agreement); (b) the appointment of Consultants; (c) the establishment of
a Project Fund with an initial deposit of Taka 3,000,000; and (d) the signing
of a contract satisfactory to IDA with the contractor who will construct the
Feni Regulator (see Section 6.01 of draft DCA). An additional condition of
effectiveness of the IDA administered credit would be the fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit (other than the
effectiveness of the IDA administered credit).
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp






0  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-,                                  -S     S~~~~~~~~~~0
s.;J~~~~~~~~~~~:I 
9 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
n M t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S                                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  
*  s   p  0   -. p.5  an  aoso.       Z-an                    n                         1 0
*  CS                                                                 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MC
*0  S                                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 2 
06                                                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .
00.0                                             a~8 A 1.a~~l_~          wZ.Z 
CO  S                                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4  , lw zxw,  M
425  0-.. S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    V . .                                 o         -    w~      :
*  us--.     *         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z   C  .        ~          %0   ~   ,   tW.   , P
Sn-.  200 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ &- W = .  n  -
.B4@  hitS   ..  . .Z        Z.  r                 a ~O S  a~-       au S.S*W            o
coO   *.s~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ I. Z 5  fffnn.44    -          ....                   OW             O
s-c *  S-CS-.   P0   -           N~~~~~~~~I m  ,  = W = ~   oo .  ~-              WO-  0W
@20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       M 5 
e     55027 0     C7     W      :.   .:_   I O:IIX ..~  . z  w  ZC C0_._.                  S am!:W 
*~~  *                                      olICICIdI   .0-&  1 ..0  a  100I  W 9l22 0  Z  Z :
a  0  00                                                                a



ANNfEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betawen 1968 and 1970, end for Moat Recen.t Eatiteat
between 1973 end 1975.
*The 1970-75 population growth rate is abnormIly low duo to the effecto of the war of independence. an d -flt        population novonets across
the borders during that period.    Presently, the -serage population growth is earineted at 3% per esnu. 
eSelection, of Malaysia as an objective coutry is based on Malaysia's suc.ess in naintaining a high rate of econonic growth and adequate
1eve  of .Idefore concrrently with diversifying its ecoonnic otructure
BASfGLAIIESH   1960   /    Ratio of population under .15 sod 60 end over to total labor force;        lb  1963-64;    /c  Registered, not all
practicing in the coutry;       1d  Goveroesnt hospital sstsblishoants only;       Is  Approinioate enrollpent sa.
percentage of population in 6-10 and 11-15 age groups reapectivelyi         If   Age group 13-59 and 60 and over respectively.
1970   j    1966-67;   1b   1967-68;   /.   Registered, not all practicing in the country;      Id  Govesannt hospital
estsblisbh-ets only;     /a  Average for 1969-71;     /f  Appriniaste enrollent as percentage of populstion in 6-10
and 11-15 age groups respectively.
MOOT RECENT ESTDMATE:    Is  Ratio of population under 15 sod 60 end over to total labor force;        /b  Mainly onetployed worker
seeking their first job;     /c  Including nidwive;      Id  1972:     /e  Age group 15-39 sod 60    nd over
respectively.
-BOM4A         1970   Is   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to total labor force;        /b  Personel in goveresnent srie        only;
Z c1964-66.
lm.            1970   Is   1964-66;    /b  Public schools which include technical educa.tion at the post-secondary level.
MALAYSIA       1970  /a    West Maleysia;    1b  Registared applicants for work;      /.  1964-66;    /d  Piped water insids.
RIO, May 24, 1977
SUINflIlONS O? SOCIAL DhOIGATORiS
Land Area (thou kO2)                                                                    Psoplation Par nursing p-ro    - Populatibo, divided by nusbr of praticing
Total   Totalsuf1  e    rsac onprisiag land area end island wstsra                        sale sad f-1al graduate nuse,trained        or  coc.tiftad' nure, sa. .d
Agric..  Most rec..i as riserst of arclua       res cued tampoc-ily or peac-              atailiary psrsams with training oreprin.
ses tly for crops, peatures, sacker & bitches gardenm or to lie fallow.               POsulatien per hoapital bed - Population divided by mocker of hospiia1 bode
avilable is pablic aed privars general and apecialised hospito1 and
GIMP mrc cesita (U5$) - GMP per capita estimates ac-rsat market prices,                   rehabiliratien ceter; secludes nursing hoses sad ssrablihlesstr for
1 calculted by sen  converion  etbod as World Sank Atlas (1973-75 basis);               custodial end preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                             Per canito eucpl, of calories (%, of resoir-ttet) - Computed fano energy
sqolv-lsot of net feud supplies aveilablo in coencry par c.pita per day;
Ppelatieno sod viral atacetic,                                                            available suPplies comprise domestic production, imports I...   np-rte, and
Populatien (aid-year nillion) -As of Jely first:    if not available, overge              changes in stock; set suppis. seclde animal feed, seeds, quatities used
of two end-yea  eutieart-; 11?60, 1970 end 1975 data.                                   in fond processing and lenses is distrihotlen; requirenesware.-r  estitord
by FAO based on physiological seeds for coral a ctivity end health conaid-
Population, denaity -per square he - Mid-year population per square kii    tentr          acing envircoonenta1 tenperature, body weights, oge and see distribotions of
(100 hertares) tf total arsa.                                                           poplation, and allowing 10X for wast.eat household level.
Ponuletion densit, -par auar    ho of saris, laud - Computed as shows for               Per capita suset, of protais forse   par deal - protein content of per tapits
agriroltoral lend only,                                                                 net supply of food pear day; sa t supply of food is defined as above; require-
senra for all coutries established by USDA toonomic Researsh Service
Vital traritics                                                                           provide for a niioso   al1owasc  of 60 gron  of rural protein par day, sad
Crude birth rare sea thousad, average - Annual live birtho per thousand of                20 gra-  of .- animlsd pulse protein, of which 10 grn    should he asinuI
nid-year population; tee-yesr arit    nti avgrsge  ending in 1960 and 1970,             protein; thus standards are lowr than those of 75 grow     of total p-otnin
Cend five-yesr avsrage ending in 1971 for   ear -oost estimtate                          sod 23 gcan   of an-Ima protein  sa   avorugo for the -nId, proposed by FAO
Crud  death rats car thousend. oese- Annual deatho per thousad of nid-y.sr                in the Third world Food Survy.
population; ten-year erith-otic averages ending in 1960 sad 1970 sod five-            Per capita proteis scenlc from anIma and oulse - Proteis supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for ocet retet estima te,                                   derived fne    ranials and pulses in gr-n per day.
Infant certality rate C/thou)  A-..Iua deorho of infants onder one year of age          Death rate f/thou) asee 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand liva hirth..                                                               years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life enseotascy at birth (ors)  A-Avrage nmber of year    of life remaining at             malntrition.
birth; usualy flu-yea      -regags ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing coutries .                                                                        Educatio
Gross reeroduction rate - Averaga sombr of live daughters a    oa     ill hear           Adiusted enrollment ratio _  eepmac  school - Enrolleent of all sgee ae Pr-
is her sornl reproduction period if she seperisoces present age-specific                entnag. of primary schoo-sepoulation ; includes children aged 6-11 yeors
fertility rates; ousully fiv-yea    avereges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975              hut adjusted for di ff. Met lengtho of primary educa.tion; for coutries with
for davlpngcucra.uivreral educa tion, -nolisent may excee d 100% since eas                                                                           pupils are below
Ponat   rowth rats (%) - totnl  Coopousd .n.-I growth rates of mid-year              or shov  the officis1 school age.
populstian foc 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                          Adiuscad enrlmet ratio - secondary -chul - Compurod as bhv; o-rnd-ry
Posulation armwth rate II) - urban - Computed like growth rtst of total                    education requires at least four years of approved primary imatructien;
population; different definition   of urhan area  sy affect cop-raility of              provides genral., vonaional or reac.her training ins trutions for pupils 
daa  nngc     tmries                                                                   of 12 to 17 year  of age   orepnenecure            r  g   erally secluded.
Erhas =uultion (I of tot.1) -     aRlo. of urban to total Ppoplation; different           easof schooling eroidd (first an      scod levels) -Total1 years of
definitions, of urban areas say sffcct conprarbility of data onoug coutrins.             anhooli.g; at secondary level, -ntina      instrution may he partislly or
campletely seclded.
Axe structure (sercet) - Children (0-14 years), woking-age (15-64 years),               Vonetisnal Enrollment Cl of secondary) - Vocationa    i-tcitoriona inclode
sdrtired (65 yearn  n  over) as percentages of mid-year peltmjton.                    technical, industris1 or other progrn   which operate independently ora
A,. depndenr ca rtic - cir    of poPulation under 11 sod 65 and ovr to those               deparosstar  of secondary i-stitotiona.
of ages 15 through 6.Adul.ttliteracy rate CT)t Literate adults (able to read ond wits) as per-
tEonoic depradaccy ratio - Ratio of population onder 15 aod 65 and over to                 ctaeof coral adult popultion aged 15 years and over.
the 1ahor force in age group of 15-64 Year.
rscily    . elning -sccptor  (-1sultive. thou) - C-ulti-c oubor of acce ptors           H   Looig
of birth-nontroI dvcsuder suapican of national fenily planning progron,                Person  par coo  (urban) - Average  onber of persons per roo   i occupied
sic   lcPtin                                                                            convetioce   dwellings in erban areas; dwellings -cclde non-peenannt
coolly PlnIno-users Cl of married wmn         -Percentages of maried    -ean of            structures ad unoccpied parts.
chid-hearing age (11-44 years) oho use birth-oont-1 devicas to all maried              Occuniad dwslli.o  wi;thont absed water MT  - OccPied conentional dwellings
wenin nm   age group.                                                                 in urba  and rurs  areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as P prcen.tage of all ocuid delings
Ebploocent                                                                              ftcees  tc elactriniry CT of all dweIllings  _ Convetional dwellings with
Total lahor (urns (thouased) - tE-noni-lly active persons *icluding    -od                 electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwell1ings in urban and
fcress and usaplayed but excluding hueivs         tudents  etc.; definitions             rurl areas.
in various  oustries are not conparble.                                                foca  dueSino   connected to el1ctrinity (T) - Computed as above for rural
Labor forei      oiclueC) -tAgricultural labor force (in faning, forestry,                 dwellings ony.
huntig     sdfhig) se percntge of total lbor foc.-
Snenload CX of ishor force) -Sonployed are osua1y defined as perons who                  Cors,mption
arel abl an d wlIgto takeajob, out of a Job on a give        day, renamd our           RadIo rcivers (ser thou sop) - All typos of receivers for radio broadcat
ofajb !adsein.g wrk for a specified ninmo   peiod sot ...c.eding onet               geneal public per thousan d of populetion; -ecldes unlicensed recever
wek-a not be comparable betwee    coutries due to different definitions               in coutrie   an   nyaswe        agarto        frdo     aswsI       fet
of usaplayed end source of data, e.g. * seploysent office statistics, .-npie             dnts for recen.t yere say not he comparable sinc  anal..  countries  bholiabad
-ovys, compulsory uneploymet insuance,                                                   licensing.
Passenger  cr    orto     pop) - Passenger cars comprina notro cars easting
Isnom  distribution - Pe-cntega of private iucnne, (both in cash and kind)                leste       ight pesn      xludes onbolauce, hearses an d ailitry
ra-iv-d by richoet 5T, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poores t 40% of hoe-.vhila
holds.                                                                                 Ele,ctricity (bkh/yr par espl - Anmual consumption of industrial, cnesreial,
phlfc and private electricity in kilowtt hence Per capita, genaraly
Diorribution of land owesip - Perc.e.ltgea of land ownd by wealthiest 10%                  base.d on predution data, withut allowance for looses In grids hut allo--
and pocret10ofla         owners.                                                        itag f or iaperta and esparta of electricity.
Neweerint (ke/yr oer sap) - per cspits s-sa 1onsumption in, kilogres
Hes1th and Notrition                                                                       estimated from dometic pradocrion plu-smet imports sf seapriat.
Population se era~hinisa - Population divided by mate.r of practicing
physicians quaitfied icon a medical school at niv-rsity leve...



ANNEX I
page 3 of 4 pages
Ks. 1967-69  1972/73  1974/75                        1960--      1965~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~- 17- j1q6.7-69 1974/75 19 76/77
RATIONAL ACCO~~~~Th      _______     ... ~~Actual                        1976 771965                       1970        jj7            v
NATIONAL ACCOMtMI                 Constantt      1972- 1973 Pr-ices & Exc hange -Ratis          Average Annrual Grovth Rates             As Percent of GOY
Gross Domestic Product               6,012      5,833      6,514            7,295       7614.7                            3.3         6.?         98.~     101.8    10.
Gains from Terms of Trade (4             89          -      -117              14    ~    -148                                                      1.5      -1.8     -2.0
Gross Domestic Income                6CIUT                                                                                                                -,f CV  JIb 7,1..6 25  .  5! T   100.0
Import (cine. N178)                     879       747        703              646     ~    00                20.6         6.8        -7.4         14.4      11.0      6.7
Exports     "  (import capacity)        598       369        197               200        210                12.3      -14.6       -12.6           9.8       3.1       2.8
Resource Gap                            281      *7          13IT46                                                                                          7.9       39
Consumption Expenditures              5,668     5,817      6,493      ~     7,062       7,230                 5.7         3.6         5.6         92.9     100.1     97.6
Investment     "   (mncl. stocks)       714       394        4s9954                        731.                           88          67          12.9       7.8      7.4
Domestic Savings                        433         16        -6                88        1.83                4.3        10.0        81.0          6.8      -0.1       2.4
National Savings                        416         32        10               110         200                8.7        20.5        57.0           7.1      0.2       2.6
MERCHAIDISE TRADE                                Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                    ka Percent of Total
Tmports                                                                        21I          6
Capital goods                          ..        100       135               213         26825.7                                                   ..     16,-8     28.6
Intermediate goods f6sLfuel.s)                  176        386               386        250...                                     12.6                   30.4      26.7
Fuels and related materials
of which:    Fetroleuw               .         23        155              126         144...                                     49.8           .       10.0      15.4
Cons    tion  noods                   -        -A3       __                  541        275                   ...                  -6.6        ~  &-               -    -
aota    r eho   Deports (cif)       57         727     1,402             1,26          937                                         86100.0                       100.0
Exports 
Primary produicts brnl. fuels)         ..       145        119               156                              ..          ..         2.9                  40.9     42.0
Fuels and reaUted materials
of which: Petroleum
SManfatrsed goods                                195       239               225         242                  5..                     .4                  59.1      58.0
Total Heroc. Exports (fob)            481      -340        358               381      .-Ti                                           3.-8        -       100.0    100.0
Tourism and Border' TradLe
Merchandise Trade Indices                           Average_1972- 73 -100
Export Price Index                     61       100        133'             109         Ill.                              .         2.4
Import Price Index                     52       100        215:             195         189...                                     16.3
Terms of Trade Index                  118       100         62:               56         59                   ....                  11.7
Exports Volume Index                  148       100         80      ~       106         123...                                       3.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                  Annual Data at 1972- 73Prices and Exchange Rates                    Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        3,542      3,403     3,712             4,078       4,140                                                       59 .594.87
Industr-y and Mining                 420        412        466              527         567                               4. .8                    7        7        8
Service                            2.050      1.848     2.146             2.333       2.504                  7...                     8.          34      34        35
Total                              6,012      5,663     6,324             6.938       7,211                                          6.1         100     100       100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                      As Percent of GOP
(Central Governiment)
Current Receipts                     317        280        469              775         877                   .                                  5.3     7.2      11.2
Curren  xenditures                365        364       419               600         686                                .       32            6.1     6.4       8.7
3sgtr  avings                  -4-8      --84       3-j                            j.                                        16.8        -.         .        .
Other Public Sector
Public Sector Investment             421        239       248               29'5        350 -O               ..                     0.            .      3.8       4.9'
U   $million-'
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                       Actual                     Estimated                DETAIL ON                                At Av.      1972/73 P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)          1969/70    192/273   1947i97/6               1767               hhLCSCO                               First Plan       %o     oa
Education                                ..       14.8       15. 5        13.6      13.3            INVESTMENT PROGRAM                       (17/4        -197/78
Other Social Services                    .         4.0        4.2          4.4       4.2            Social Sectors                                758          15.3
Agriculture    and                                                               -         -        Agriculture                                 1,302          26.4
Other Economic Services                .        11.2        7.2          6.8        6.7           Industry and Mining                         1,024          Z0.7
Administration and Defense               *        67.4       68.1         68.8      68.9            Power                                         529          10.7
other                                              2.7        5.0          6.4       6.9            Transport and communications                  802          16.3
Toa    Current Expenditures                      1000      100. 0       1006. 0    100. 0           Other                                         524        _AQ6
__________________ __________________ __________________ __________________ _____ T otTotal pExpe ditures44,940                        100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                             I        16-           95-          97-FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged.data)                   1965jj       1970         1976     _             Domestic fcorrowing-                     784           15.9
Average ICON                                                          3.74         0.89             ,     Public Sector Savings                  2,022           40.9
Import Elasticity                                                     1.29         1.11                   Program aid counterpsrt                1, 00-9         20.4
mirginal Domestic Savings Rate                                        0.22         0. 05                  Foreign Project Aid                    1.125           22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                                        83sT         0.05                   Total Financing                        4,940          100.0
IAmOR FORCE AND                                      Total Labor Force                                      Value Added Per Worker (19 72 -73         Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WOREER                     In Miflions           % of Total            1961- 73             In U.S.Dollars        Percent of Average            1970 - 73
1960/61      19 72/ 73 1960/61    1972/73    Growth Rate           1969/70     19 72/ 73    19-69 /70   1972/73     Growth Rate
Agriculture                           16.1         20.5        85        78          2.0                 ..          166          ..76
Industry                               1.0          1.8         5         7          5.0                 ..          229          ..         105
Service                                1.8          3.9        10        15          6.7                -.           A..                     222            --
Total                                 189          2.        10         10           28                 248          217    ,    100        100            -4.9
* not applicable                 -nil or negligible
not available              -  -less than half the smallest unit shown
Noet:   Figures are on fiscal year basie       (July 1-June 30).     Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan
fl      These are original plan targets.



IANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BAIAC OY PAX0S. Si~NAL A0BI9ThZl AD OT
(amounts 95 .ilitoa of L.S. dollar, at ctareent pricas)
Astu.l                     torimaced           Proi-ted            A-eema Annoal G.owth Rate
1969170    1972/73   1973/74    1974/75           1975/56      d6 /77      19/7                      1974 - 1978
SUHl9ROY BALANCE OF PAYIMENTS
Espo-te (intl. 9FS)                           515        369        339       358               381        400           423                         5.a
i99S nL. AS-639                                   -747       -958    -1.402            -1.290       -937        -1.274                         _7.4
Reaurce (RlaC1 NPS()                         -124      -379       -619     _1,044             -90          917          -849                         8.2
Intere.t (net)
Direct Investmlent InCOme    I                                                                                            1
Worker,' Remitttnce          I                            45         10         7                 1         25            15                          -
Current Tran_fer, (_et)      I                _          _
Balance. en Current AccountS                  ..        -T33      -41___ 098371                                         _-934                        6-.2
Private Di-ect Investment
Offictul Cepit.l Grant,                        ,         482        204       397               236        258           340                        13.6
Public 05LT Lo.ns
Di.burs-.ent.                                           76        297       527               578        314           476                        16.0
-Re.p.ymet.                                  _.                    -10       -25               -78       -2}            -31
Net Diabhreene- t                              ,          76        287       502               500        293           445                        13.3
Other 9&LT Loans
Dieburenent
-Depsyleenta                                                       .
NOt Dishbrneesute
C.pital Trn-actions n.     i                            -205         78      334               122          33            91
Chbsne to Net Reserves ( -- increase)         ,          -20         40     -196                50        -72            -32                             Actu.l                      Estimated
Gres, Reserves (end period)-                  :          107         67      263              213          285           317                 1971/72    1972/73    1974/75      1975/76    1976/77
GRANT AND LOAN CM0MITMENTS
Official Gr-nts 6 Gra-t-Likb                             514        150       368              390        DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. 6 Dibur.ed            36        187        999         1,909      2,245
Public M6LT L-o                                                                                             Internet on Public Dtbt              -          -          10            20         26
IBND                                                    -            -      -                -             onpym  t   cc Public Debt                                2 _ 5          67         21
1DA                                                     69          74     130              187           Tutnl Public Debt Service            -         -           35            87         47
Other Multilateral                                      11          17      87               22           Other Debt Seroice (set)                                                            ,,
Gover-eents                                            204         329     678               332          Total Debt Service (net)
Suppliers                                               55         47       17               -
Pin ncial Institotios..                                 -            -      -                  9        Burden on Erport   eningn (I)
Burds
Public Lt-u    ne. i i                                                      -_                            Public Debt Service                                      9.8           22.9      11.8
Tct.1 Public M4LT Lo.cs                        ,         339         467     932               550          Ttal Debt Servtce _.
TDS4-Di-et Iuve.t.In..
Antu4i D nbt GiuM  .andina s  Jen. 30, 1976
EXTERNAL DEST                                             iLsburned Only          Percent                   Avera-e Tereu of Public Debt
World B-nk                                       -           sR ._.       -       3.0
IDA                                                         380                  21.0                       Iint. e  X Prior Yet W6DO                                 2.3           2.0       1.4
Otbhr Mcltiluter-l                                           25                   1.4                       A=ort. on I Prio    Y-nr DO6D        ,,                   5.7           6.7        1.2
Goorne nts                                                1,250                  69.1
Supplier,                                                    90                   5.0                     1BRD Debt Out. & Diebresed
Pinesciul Inetitotions                                        9                   0.5                       "  ,5 2 Public Debt 04D              -          -         5.5           3.0        2.4
Bonds                                                        _                     -                           a   2 Public Debt S-rvice         -          -          -            1.8        7.4
Public Debts -ni.
Total Public MIT Debt                                     1,809                 100.0                     IDA Debt Ot. 6 DStbu.rud
,  of Public Debt 060         -         9.6       25.5          21.0       27.7
Othor MSLT Debtu                                                                                                s 2 Public De1bt Seric           -          -         3.1           2.5        6.4
Sh-ot-Ter= Debt (diub. only)
,  not upplicoble                         e   ntaft estioate
not ovailuble                          -   nil or cegligible
not available sep.r.tely bht          --   Ieee thnn half the smallest
included in totul                          unlt eho-D
May 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year              Purpose                           Amount   Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Five Credits Fully Disbursed                                 206.4           -
339      1972    Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)     25.0          9.4
340      1972    Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                    13.0         5.8
341       1972   Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                                   14.0         3.0
343      1972    Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)              7.3         1.8
353      1973    Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)                3.0          0.3
367      1973    Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                  7.0         1.1
368      1973    Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)                 13.2         1.2
381      1973    Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                        19.7         0.3
407      1973    Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)              21.0          8.2
408      1973    Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                  25.0         14.2
409      1973    Technical Assistance                          4.0          2.2
410      1973    Cereal Seeds                                  7.5          6.5
424      1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation        8.7          2.8
487      1974     Second Telecommunications                   20.0         19.2
527      1975    Ashuganj Fertilizer                          33.0        26.9
533      1975     Population                                  15.0         13.8
542      1975     Barisal Irrigation                          27.0         26.3
591      1975    Imports Program IV                          100.0          6.4
605      1976    Karnafuli Irrigation                         22.0         19.0



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CONT'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                      Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year             Purpose                           Amount   Undisbursed
621      1976   Agricultural and Rural Training              12.0        11.9
622      1976   Technical Assistance II                       7.5         7.4
631      1976   Rural Development                            16.0        16.0
632      1976   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                       25.0        25.0
676      1977   Imports Program V                            50.0        49.5
SUBTOTAL                           702.3       278.2
Principal Repayment                                 0.4
Effective Credits held by Association             701.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087     1975    Consolidation Loan                          54.9         0
TOTAL                              756.8       278.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION"
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:    US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and although the project is still
2-1/2 years behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. After
a pause while the shelter design was reevaluated, construction of cyclone
shelters is moving ahead. Arrangements for supervision of shelter construc-
tion still need to be strengthened. Four of the five primary roads are now
finished withi the fifth road, scheduled for completion in 1978. The IDA fi-
nanced portion of the feeder road program is nearing completion. Construc-
tion of towers for the telecommunications subproject is behind schedule but
this subproject should be completed by December 1977. The fisheries sub-
project, including distribution of boats to groups of local fishermen has
been completed. All work on the repair or new construction of inland water
transport terminals is expected to be completed by within a few months.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is about 30 months behind schedule due to major flooding,
work stoppages caused by 100% increase in construction labor costs, shortages
of cement, fuel, and inoperable construction equipment, ineffective management,
delays in provision of local funds and general inflation. While problems re-
main, substantial progress has been made recently both in physical construction
and agricultural extension. One regulator is now operational with the second
scheduled to be operating by the end of June. Utilization of the irrigation
works will be delayed due to land acquisition problems (now resolved) which
interferred with work on irrigation channels. Preparation of proposals from
the Covernrment for recovery of irrigation water charges is seriously behind
schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 13, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1977
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the Project is expected within a year. Ninety
percent of the wells under contract have now been drilled, but it was found
that at least a sixth did not meet standards of verticality. Contractors have
accepted liability and are rectifying the situation. Meanwhile, BADC has
decided to recontract for the 285 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is now proceeding satisfactorily. The
agricultural development component of the project, also behind schedule, is
expected to be incorporated into a proposed Extension and Research Project
under consideration for financing this calendar year, in order to avoid dup-
lication or conflict between the two projects.
Cr. No. 343     Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of November
15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems are expected
to be commissioned by June 1977, two years behind schedule. The contract for
the fourth microwave system (which substitutes the coaxial cable system in the
original project) has been awarded together with contract for similar systems
under Credit 487-BD. This system is expected to be commissioned by June
1978. The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30,
1978.
Cr. No. 353     Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973: Effective Date: May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is administered by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and a consortium of commercial banks. Dis-
bursements up to April 25, 1977 amount to approximately US$2.7 million.
While the credit was fully committed by the end of 1974, agreements by
suppliers to provide equipment were cancelled in a few cases and new sup-
pliers had to be found. In early 1976, IDA therefore agreed to extend the
closing date by nine months to allow for disbursements under outstanding
letters of credit. To permit all credit funds to be disbursed, a further
extension of the closing date, from March 31, 1977 to December 31, 1977 has
just been made. An IDA mission visited Bangladesh in March 1977 to explore
with Government ways and means for improving BSCIC activities, and to form
a basis for a further operation involving BSCIC and commercial banks.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The Project was originally financed under IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.3 million
had been disbursed. After two years of organizational and procurement dif-
ficulties, progress in 1976 and 1977 to date has been satisfactory. The
project is now expected to reach completion by September 1977, over 2 years
behind the schedule established in 1973. Inspite of substantial rate increases
and improvements in billings and collections, WASA's financial problems are
still acute because of high operating costs and the large quantity of non-
revenue water. Satisfactory progress has been made in most areas of an
agreed action program to improve the financial situation, but no decision has
yet been taken on how to deal with the Government agencies and municipali-
ties arrears to Chittagong WASA or for payment for water supplied through
public hydrants. Revenue requirements are expected to increase in FY78,
because the project will be completed and the Authority must begin repaying the
Government loans for the project. Therefore, a further increase in tariffs is
expected to be required. IDA agreed in June 1976 to a second extension of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1977 but informed the Government that consideration of
a further extension beyond June 30, 1977 would be dependent upon further
actions taken to make the Authority financially viable.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Prolect; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The Project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The work progressed slowly for two years due to orga-
nizational and procurement difficulties but has been satisfactory in 1976
and 1977. The project is expected to be completed by December 1977, about
2-1/2 years behind the schedule established in 1973. However, the financial
condition of the WASA remains very weak despite substantial rate increases and
improvements in billings and collection. The situation is similar to that
described for Chittagong under Credit 367-BD and IDA has informed the Govern-
ment that consideration of a further-extension of the Closing Date beyond June
30, 1977 would be dependent upon further actions taken to make the Authority
financially viable.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The Project is also financed by credits from the Kingdom of Sweden
totalling 30.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by US$19.2
million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the King-
dom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time of Bangladesh's



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
independence, and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish credits was to be
used for repaying the previous credits. Substantial delays occurred in hiring
consultants and in design and construction of ancilliary civil works. In
addition there was serious deterioration in the silos mechanical equipment due
to inadequate maintenance and management, under staffing in the Directorate
of the Silos and delays in ordering spare parts. Since January 1976 however
significant progress has been made in accordance with an action program agreed
with IDA/SIDA, particularly in constructing ancillary civil works and staffing
the project agency; one silo has been put back into operation, consulting serv-
ices for a silo maintenance improvement program have been obtained and jetty
rehabilitation started in February 1977. Therefore, the Association agreed
to a third extension of the Closing Date to September 30, 1977, by which time
the project is expected to be completed.
Cr. No. 407     Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the proj-
ect is about 2 years behind schedule due to initial difficulties in reaching
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract and shortages
of building materials, and delays in the preparation of equipment lists and
furniture designs. However, significant progress has been made beginning in
late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction are expected to
be completed by August 1977 and the remaining works by July 1979. The Uni-
versity has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural training
and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural and
rural development, but, further progress in this direction is needed. The
technical education portion of the project is about 18 months behind schedule
due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by December 1977. The
graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment and a committee has been
established to revise the curriculum needs revision to make it more relevant
to job requirements.
Cr. Nio. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Mfillion of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:   September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit N4o. 53-PAK. By
December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficiencies
in some contractors performance have delayed certain elements of the project.
Progress on construction of the Sitalakhya Bridge is improving and it is ex-
pected to be completed in early 1978. The paving of the Feni bypass road is
not likely to start before January 1978 due to delays on the part of the two
out of three contractors in completing the earth works. Disbursements, which
in the past have been slow, show signs of improvements.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects with an allocation from this Credit of about $3.6 million. Approval
is expected shortly for a contract negotiated with consultants for one addi-
tional subproject of about $0.3 million. Completed studies have played a key
role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing including the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project, the Rural Development Project, and two other projects
which are under consideration for FY77. Due to delays in initial commitment
of credit funds, disbursements are 2 to 3 years behind initial estimates.
The Closing Date for this Credit was extended by two years to December 31,
1977.
Cr. No. 410     Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:   January 30, 1974; Closing Date:   December 31,
1977
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule,implemen-
tation has improved considerably in recent months. Because of severe price
escalation the percentage of IDA financing of local construction costs has
been reduced. Orders for farm machinery and laboratory equipment have recently
been placed, but contract negotiations with the lowest bidder for the seed
processing plants have broken down and a proposal for simplification of plant
design is currently under consideration. After substantial initial delays
work is now proceeding well on improvements at the seed multiplication farms,
and production of seed, especially wheat, is increasing as a result.
Cr. No. 424     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Mlillion
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
Mlarch 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Amending Agreement of October 17, 1975 increased the amount
of the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million to finance tlle new oil
transfer system at Chittagong. Procurement of spare parts and equipment was
slow initially but almost all funds for these purposes have now been committed.
Regarding the repair of the Chittagong off-shore oil terminal, detailed inves-
tigations indicated that the damage was more severe than previously believed.
Consultants were appointed late in 1973 to study alternative technical solu-
tions. An Amending Agreement modifying the project description in line with
the consultants' recommendations, and providing a supplementary credit of
US$4.6 million, was approved by the Executive Directors on September 16, 1975
and signed on October 17, 1975. Two used tankers have been procured and re-
paired, and are being equipped for lighterage service at Chittagong. They are
expected to be put into operation during July 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project is 18 months behind schedule due to delays in procurement
and civil works. Thirty percent of the original target for the first two years
has been achieved on the local telephone network. Work on the long-distance
telephone network has yet to commence. A Telegraph and Telephone Board has
been established, a year behind schedule. Consultants financed under the
Credit are assisting the T&T Board in establishing a commercial accounting
system and valuation of assets.
Cr. Nlo. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by Asian Development Bank, KfW, and
the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of US$109
million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation work in-
cluding the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule. How-
ever, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site will be carried out to protect the
plant against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about eighteen
months behind schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and
initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b)
planning for construction. Revised cost estimates are being finalized allow-
ing for the additional site work and the delays.
Cr. No. 533     Population Project:  US$15 21illion Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; field staff is being recruited with special incentive payments
offered for some crucial personnel. The Population Program Officers, who are
responsible for the population programs of five non-health ministries, have
been trained abroad and have initiated schemes of their respective ministries.
The Building, Planning and Design Unit of the Ministry of Health, with the
assistance of consultants, has completed a master plan for the project's con-
struction program. The Government is proceeding with the selection of required
consultants and advisors for other parts of the project. Hlowever, because of
institutional and coordination problems, the implementation of a few proj-
ect components is some months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is behind schedule due to delays in hiring project
consultants and in assignment of Water Development staff members to the
project and delays in land acquisition. The staffing position improved in
March 1976 and field survey and design activities are now progressing. Prin-
cipal field activities have been survey work, procurement of materials and
housing and office construction. Two pilot areas have been developed which
have been useful in testing the project concept and in identifying potential
problems. Construction of irrigation channels has been delayed by problems
of land acquisition.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
Disbursements amounted to US$93.6 million as of April 30, 1977,
and in addition letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$4.0 million.
The remaining US$2.5 million represents letters of credit below $20,000 for
which IDA guarantee have not been requested. All orders are expected to be
received by the Closing Date. The requirements under the action programs for
the jute and textiles industries have been met.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness is limited by delays in
procurement of vehicles and equipment. Work is now underway to prepare con-
struction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been negotiated, and is awaiting Government approval.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. Most sites, with the exception of only three thana substations,
have been selected and acquired. Progress has also been achieved in the prep-
aration of sketch plans for project buildings and the Government has been
working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra Rural Development
Academy. The inservice training program supported under project has been
delayed due to delays in allocation of local funds. Delays are being exper-
ienced in hiring consultants for the project.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Cr. No. 622     Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Consultants are working on the first subproject authorized under
this credit, a water development study of the Southwest region. The
Bangladesh Bank has invited consultant proposals for a second subproject,
an agricultural credit study. Initial work is underway on a third project
involving feasibility of using jute fiber as a cotton substitute.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The reorganization of pump groups into cooperatives under the
Integrated Rural Development Program is being completed, and adequate progress
has been achieved in rescheduling loans. As part of a nationwide effort to
revitalize the extension system, modifications are being introduced to the
project's agricultural extension system. Procurement under various project
components, benchmark and fish pond surveys, land and draft animal registration
are in progress. After some initial delays, the construction of feeder roads
and thana buildings is proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 632     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 million of Nav 20,
1976. Effective Date: N4ovember 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1977, IDA had authorized withdrawals from the
Credit totalling $0.8 million. It is anticipated that the Credit will be
fully committed by December 1978, the final authorization date, and that
disbursements will be completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 676     Fifth Imports Program; USb50 million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1973
As of April 30, 1977, disbursements were USSC.5 million.     In addi-
tion about US$33 million of letters of credit have been issued.



ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
About 18 months (excluding work started prior to
Bangladesh independence)
(b) Preparation by:
Government with assistance of consultants financed
under Credits S-10 PAK, and S-14 and 409-BD.
(c) Initial discussions between Bangladesh Government
and IDA:
IDA mission to appraise Credit S-14, Mlay 1972
(d) First IDA mission:
Supervision Credit S-14, February, 1973
(e) Appraisal mission departure:
September, 1974
(f) Negotiations:
August, 1975 1/
(g) Follow-up mission:
February, 1977 1/
(h) Planned date of Effectiveness:
September, 1977
1/   Reasons for the hiatus between these activities are given in
paragraph 30 of this report.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
This project is under the continuous supervision of the Resident
Mission. The contract for the major civil works (the Feni Regulator) is
being finalized with IDA assistance.
Section III: (a) Special Conditions of the IDA Credit
(1) Special conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(i) effectiveness of the IDA administered credit
(paragraph 49);
(ii) appointment of the engineering consultants
(paragraph 38);
(iii) the Water Board would have entered into a contract
acceptable to IDA with a contractor who will construct
the Feni Regulator (paragraph 33);
(iv)  an initial contribution of Taka 3,000,000 to the
project revolving fund would have been made
(paragraph 40);
(2) The Project Director would prepare and submit to IDA on
August 31 each year annual work programs and project cost
estimates (paragraph 37);
(3) The Project Director would prepare detailed operation
and maintenance procedure manuals within three years of
credit signature (paragraph 38);
(4) Sufficient funds would be made available at all times
to operate and maintain all project facilities at
acceptable standards (paragraph 38);
(5) The Government would prepare plans to recover all costs
for operation and maintenance and replacement of low-
lift pumps and the operation and maitenance for civil
works (paragraph 39);
(6) The Government would establish and, on the first of
each month, replenish a project revolving fund to
maintain a balance adequate to cover estimated
expenditures for the following three months
(paragraph 40);
(b) Special Conditions of the IDA Administered Credit
(1)  A special condition of effectiveness of the IDA administered credit
would be the effectiveness of the IDA credit (paragraph 49).



9      sb                                                                                       912'01'                                         912-30'
Rmchod,.r                                                                                                                                                             BANGLADESH
'g-j                             W,od g.,                                                                                                                                      MUHURI IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
Debid.or
Da.dkodi                                                                                                                                                                                                         23'30'-
Chcdi.a
0
0        m   I L L A
tj 1,                               0 S.rurG                                                                                                                                                 r system
Rie
3                                                                  1 N         I A
f                                                                                 Railways
Dist,ict bo.,dodes
oksh..                                                                                                                                        We,Wio.ol bouda,,es
H   I                                                            Dist,ict towns
'I 4 r                                                                                                                                                                           0     Othe, vbo reas
',P       T
ini                                                 MUHUR                                      R A
PROJECT
Mi
Senba_%                                                                                                                                                                        23'00'-
H     A          I                                                                                                                                       Kilott...
houmohani
Begam
'o
ashumat
-7 A
E".0             "a'
Noakhli
comp-igo.jo                                                                                                          I N        D   I
REGULA
Ch-Dros rhat                                                                                                           kal
F.fikghhuri                                                                                                8 H U.T A         92'
Be
\I )KARNAIULI           Rangamot                                  NEPAL
lokun
azi,10.                                                                                                      0     50    100    150
\J                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mil.,
I      CH                                                                                N 0 1 A
ul
DAM
B A N            E
P.  't                                                                             24'                                        241
Chittagong         lk                                                                   .1
0           1,q
Boy              of            Bengol                                                   -da,bo                                                                                 ED
91                                                                 Boy    of     Bengal                    (A
(A
911,36                                          92-00'                                                                                           N



