CREDIT NUMBER 725 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Muhuri Irrigation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               1            , 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     , 1977, between PEOPLEtS
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) By a Development Credit Agreement dated April 9,
1973 (Irrigation Engineering Project) between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit in
various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($3,150,000) to assist in financing of a project
for engineering and other services, including, inter alia, such
services for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist-in
the financing of the Project by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) By agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Association as Administrator on behalf of the Government
of Canada (hereinafter called the Canadian Credit Agreement), the
Government of Canada has agreed to make available a credit (here-
inafter called the Canadian Credit) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount of nine million Canadian dollars (Canadian $9,000,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
therein set forth;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
O'


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "BADC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporate entity established under Ordinance No.
XXXVII of 1961, as amended, and includes any successor thereto;
(b) "CEC" means the Central Evaluation Committee, an inter-
ministerial committee established by the Borrower's Order No.
1336-FC/51-123/74 dated December 13, 1974;
(c) "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program,
an agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives;


﻿-4-
(d) "Project Area" means an area of about 67,000 acres, in-
cluding an irrigable area of about 50,000 acres, in Sonagazi,
Feni, Chhagalnaya and Mirsarai Thanas around the confluence of the
Muhuri and Feni Rivers;
(e) "Project Director" means the officer to be appointed by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)  "PP" means the Project Proforma containing the descrip-
tion, scope, economic analysis and other pertinent information
about a project, and prepared by the agency or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out a project;
(g)  "PIC" means the Project Implementation Committee to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04 (c) of this
Agreement;
(h) "Water Board" means the Bangladesh Water Development
Board, a body corporate constituted by the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Boards Order No. 59 of 1972, and includes any
successor thereto; and
(i) "Taka" means Taka in the currency of the Borrower.
.  ....


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-6-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1987, and ending May 1, 2027,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1997 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through
the Water Board, Part B of the Project through BADC and Part C of
the Project through the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture in con-
sultation with the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives, and IRDP, and with the full cooperation and as-
sistance of all other Ministries, agencies and authorities of the
Borrower as may be concerned with the Project activities.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
and without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) establish
or cause to be established a fund (hereinafter called the Project
Fund) in a commercial bank to be used for the sole purpose of
making payments of local expenditures for goods and services re-
quired for the Project, (ii) deposit or cause to be deposited in
the Project Fund, not later than the first day of each month, such
amount as shall be required to maintain the Project Fund at a level
which will be sufficient to meet payments expected to be made by
the Borrower for the Project during the next three months, as es-
timated on the basis of the Project work schedules, (iii) maintain


﻿-8-
or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations and financial condition of the Project Fund, and (iv)
authorize the Project Director or any other officials to make with-
drawals from the Project Fund for purposes of carrying out the
Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the construction of the facilities included in the Project,
and more particularly in the preparation of annual work programs,
final design and contract documents, the supervision of construc-
tion, establishment of operation and maintenance procedures, the
Borrower shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Board to
employ an officer with appropriate qualifications and experience
as Project Director to coordinate and supervise the implementation
of the Project, with such powers and functions as are considered
by the Borrower and the Association to be conducive to the satis-
factory implementation of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Director to prepare
and submit to the Association, by August 31 of each year of imple-
mentation of the Project, for review and cumment by the Association,


﻿-9-
annual work programs for the Project, supported by maps, cost es-
timates and a description of physical works to be executed.
(c) For the purpose of coordinating the participation of
agencies responsible for implementing the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) established
under the leadership of the Project Director and consisting of
representatives of the Water Board, BADC, IRDP and its Ministry of
Agriculture and other ministries, agencies and authorities of the
Borrower concerned with the carrying out of the Project. Each such
representative shall be a senior officer concerned with the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the CEC to review
periodically the progress of the implementation of the Project,
and to resolve any major coordination problems which arise in con-
nection therewith.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall efiable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Associati6n all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and se'rvices financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall rake or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
the Project and upon request shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Board,
BADC, IRDP, the Ministry of Agriculture and any other ministries,
agencies and authorities of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof to maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition
related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Water Board, BADC, IRDP, the
Ministry of Agriculture and any other ministries, agencies and
authorities of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Proj-
ect or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably re-
quest.


﻿12-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) within three years from the date of this Agreement, causa
the Project Director to prepare and submit to the Association for
its review and comment, the detailed operation and maintenance
procedure manuals in respect of the Project, and designate promptly
thereafter, the agencies and officers responsible for said opera-
tion and maintenance;
(b) take or cause to be taken all measures required to en-
sure the adequate operation, maintenance and repair of works,
buildings, installations and equipment included in the Project in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices; and
(c) make available to its agencies responsible for operatior
and maintenance of facilities constructed under the Project, suf-
ficient funds to operate and maintain said facilities.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, within two.years from the date of this Agree-
ment, prepare proposals to recover from the farmers benefitting
from the Project the full costs of operation, maintenance and re-
placement of the low-lift pumps and other devices (amortized over
the expected life of such pumps and other devices at a reasonable
rate of interest) plus the costs of operation and maintenance of
the civil works under part A of the Project. Said recovery shall
commence 18 months after completion of physical works of the Proj-
ect. The Borrower shall also recover as large a portion of the
capital costs of the works included in Part A of the Project as
appears compatible with the maintenance of adequate incentives for


﻿-13-
farmers participating in the Project. In formulating said proposals
to achieve the required recovery of costs, the Borrower shall keep
the Association informed and take into consideration such comments
as the Association may make.
ij


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that prior to the completion of the Project, the Borrower or any
other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Water Board or BADC
or IRDP or for the suspension of operations of any of them, unless
upon any such dissolution, disestablishment or suspension, arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association shall have been made to re-
place it by another body which will assume and perform all its
functions in respect of the Project and covenants applicable under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-15-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-                    K
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Project Fund referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment has been established and an initial amount of Taka 3,000,000
has been deposited therein;
(b) the engineering consultants for the purposes set forth
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement have been appointed;
(c) the Water Board has entered into a contract acceptable
to the Association with a contractor for the installation of the
regulator referred to in Part A.2 of the Project;
(d) the PP for the Project has been approved by the Borrower;
and
(e) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Canadian Credit Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be


﻿- 16 -
furnished to the Association, namely, that all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Canadian Credit Agreement (other than
the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.03. The dateC qH   Ae^  e     17      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿-17-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower: Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Sec-
retary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division of
the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of tha General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division .
Ministry of Planning
Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-19-1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Canadian Credit,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Canadian Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the    Canadian Credit
Credit Allocated    Allocated (Ex-        % of
(Expressed in       pressed in       Expenditures
Category       Dollar Equivalent) Canadian Dollars) To be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) Regu-           7,100,000     -    3,000;000     100% of foreign
lator                                            expenditures and
50% of local ex-
penditures
(b) Other           7,100,000          3,000,000     100% of foreign
Works                                            expenditures and
50% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Vehicles,            2,100,000          1,000,000
equipment,
spare parts
and materials
(excluding ma-
terials financed
under Category
(1))
(a) directly                                         100% of foreign
imported                                         expenditures
---------


﻿20 -
Amount of the
Amount of the     Canadian Credit
Credit Allocated     Allocated (Ex-        % of
(Expressed in        pressed in       Expenditures
Category        Dollar Equivalent) Canadian Dollars) To be Financed
(b) Manufac-                                           100% of local
tured lo-                                         expenditures
cally and                                         ex-factory
procured
ex-factory
(c)  Other                                             50% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Consulting            1,850,000            750,000      100% of foreign
services                                               expenditures and      -
70% of local ex-
penditures
(4)  Unallocated          2,850,000          1,250,000
TOTAL     21,000,000          9,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in           ,
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit de-
creases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $250,000, may be made in respect
of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for such ex-
penditures before that date but after November 1, 1975.
110


﻿- 22 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opin-
ion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would other-
wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿- 23
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist the Borrower to finance irrigation,
flood control and drainage in the Project Area and to provide ag-
ricultural supporting services. It consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
(1) Construction of coastal earthfill embankments (about
5 miles) and a dam across the Feni River Channel
(about 1.5 miles);
(2) Installation of a reinforced-concrete regulator on
the right bank of the mouth of the Feni River with
automatic flap gates on the down-stream and radial
or slide gates up-stream with a lifting device, and
a mechanical boat transfer system at a suitable
location;
(3) Construction of a power substation including about
8 miles of transmission lines and provision of a
stand-by generator;
*                    (4) Construction of one large and about 30 small drain-
age structures with flap gates and improvement, by
installation of flap gates and invert paving, of the
existing drainage structures;


﻿- 24 -
(5) Improvement of about 110 miles of natural channels
and excavation of about 6 miles of new channels;
(6) Improvement of about 9 miles of existing roads and
construction of about 9 Tailes of new roads for
access to the Project works;
(7) Construction of workshops, offices and housing for
Project staff;
(8) Acquisition and use of vehicles and equipment for
maintenance of Project works; and
(9) Utilization of consultants' services to assist the
Water Board in the planning, design and execution
of civil works.
Part B:   Pumps
Acquisition and installation of low-lift pumps or any
other appropriate devices to raise water from the channels
to the irrigable farmlands within the Project Area and pro-
vision of workshops, vehicles and equipment to maintain said
pumps or other devices.
Part C:   Training and Agricultural Extension Services
(1) Training of village extension agents and model
farmers, and provision of management training and
assistance to farmers' groups or cooperatives; and


﻿- 25 -
(2) Acquisition and utilization of agricultural equip-
ment and transportation to facilitate the strength-
ening of extension services.
Part D:   Evaluation
Carrying out of studies to assess the socio-economic
characteristics of the beneficiaries of the Project in order to
permit an assessment, after Project completion, of the direct and
indirect economic and financial benefits derived from the facili-
ties constructed under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.
Ir.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Subject to paragraph A.2 below, contracts with respect to
civil works, vehicles, equipment and imported materials shall be
let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Contracts with respect to equipment, vehicles and mate-
rials estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may be let
through normal government procurement procedures, provided that
the aggregate of such contracts shall not exceed $200,000 equiva-
lent.
(b) 'Contracts for civil works other than those included in
Part A(2) of the Project may be let on the basis of local compe-
titive bidding in accordance with/procedures acceptable to the
Association.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;' Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the


﻿- 27 -
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bang-
ladesh if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh.


﻿-28-
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties an4 other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall ba selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for
Domestic Contractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works included in
Part A(2) of the Project, the Borrower may grant a margin of pre-


﻿- 29--
ference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classifi-
cation established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association,
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic pre-
ference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the prefer-
ence and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and         -
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for, (i) civil works estimated
[           to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) equipment,
vehicles and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000
or more:


﻿- 30 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or.procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, infprm the
Association.of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 31 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


