CREDIT NUMBER 725-5 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Muhuri Irrigation Project)
between
PEOPLE'. REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of
THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
Dated    3                          , 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                1977, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator
on behalf of the GOVERNMENT OF CANADA (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
)    International Development Association and of the Government
of Canada in the financing of a project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between
Lo
the Borrower and the International Development Association
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the International Development Association is prepared
to grant for this purpose a development credit out of its own
resources (hereinafter called the IDA Credit) on the terms and
conditions set forth in said IDA Credit Agreement, and the
Government of Canada has authorized the International Development
Association, acting as Administrator, on behalf of the Government
of Canada, to grant for the same purpose a development credit
out of the Canadian Government development aid funds on the terms
and conditions hereafter set forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Borrower acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Borrower under this Development Credit Agreement
shall be considered as part of the bilateral development aid
extended by the Government of Canada to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of Canadian Government development aid
funds pursuant to the Agreement, dated April 22, 1977, between the
Government of Canada and the International Development Associa-
tion;
(b) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 are deleted; and
(c) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association"
shall include also the International Development Association
acting in its own capacity.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Levelopment Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to the amounc of nine million Canadian
dollars (Canadian $9,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from t'he Credit Account pro rata to the withdrawals by the
Borrower of the proceeds of the IDA Credit, in the ratio of
Can$9 of the Credit hereunder to US$21 of the IDA Credit and
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement among the parties, for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit have been paid or are payable
or, at the option of the Association, in Canadian dollars.
(c) If a withdrawal shall be made in a currency which
the Association shall have purchased with Canadian dollars for
the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so
withdrawn shall be deemed to have been withdrawn in Canadian
dollars for the purposes of Section 2.08 of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association  a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06o Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
* of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1987, and ending May 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the service
charges thereon in Canadian dollars.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. Articles III, IV and V, and Section 6.03 of the
IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, it being understood that all references in such Articles
III and IV to the "Association" shall be deemed to be references
to the Association acting as Administrator on behalf of the
Government of Canada under this Agreement and all references to
the "Credit" and to the "Development Credit Agreement" shall be
deemed to be references to the Credit hereunder and to this
Agreement, respectively.


﻿--8
-8-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Representation
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled.
Section 4.02. The date s    J                    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section
7.01 of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of
the IDA Cred4t Agreement shall be the addresses specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Agreement, dated April
22, 1977, between the Government of Canada and the International
Development Association, the rights and obligations of the Asso-
ciation under this Agreement may be transferred to the Government
of Canada, or one of its agencies designated by it. The Borrower
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Association to the
Borrower to that effect, the Government of Canada (or the agency
designated by it) shall ipso facto, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Association under this Agreement as if the Government of Canada or
such agency had been an original party to this Agreement, without
any further action or formality required on the part of any party,
and from such date the International Development Association shall
cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this
Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of
THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
Regional Vice President
South Asia
f1


