Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19871
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(CR. 2131-IN AND LOAN 3197-IN)
November 3, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =       Rupee (Rs)
At Appraisal (July 1989) US$1.00 =  16.43
Completion Year (1999): US$ 1.00 =  43.39
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
GIS      Geographical Information System
GLDC   Gujarat State Land Development Corporation
GOG      Government of Gujarat
GOI      Government of India
GOO      Government of Orissa
GOR      Government of Rajasthan
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOU    Memorandum of Understanding
MTR      Mid Term Review
NGOs   Non-Government Organizations
WMIS   Watershed Management Infonnation System
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:   Ridwan Ali
Task Leader:      T.C. Jain



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Cr.2131-INILn.3197-IN)
Table of Contents
Preface .............                                                           i
Evaluation Summary .............                                                iii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .10
D.   Project Sustainability.                                                     I
E. Bank Performance .11
F.   Borrower Performance ................                                       I I
G. Assessment of Outcome .12
H. Future Development .12
l. Lessons Learned .12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1    Summary of Assessment
Table 2.    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3.    Project Timetable
Table 4.    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A    Project Costs
Table 8B    Project Financing
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10    Status of Legal Covenants of Original Agreement
Table 1 I   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13    Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.   Mission Aide Memoire
B.   Financial and Economic Analysis
C.   Approaches and Achievements in Watershed Development and Management
D.   Borrower's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Loan 3197-IN/Credit No. 213 1-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Watershed
Development (Plains) Project in India for which Loan 3197-IN in the amount of US$7.0 million and
Cr. 213 1-IN in the amount of SDR42.6 million (US$55.0 million) was approved on 22 August 1990.
The IBRD Loan was cancelled on 21 December 1991 and the IDA Credit was closed on March 31,
1999 after a one-year extension of the Credit. The final Credit disbursed (as of September 5, 1999)
was SDR40.75 million (US$57.74 million), utilising 95.7% of the total credit.
The ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO World Bank Cooperative Programme
which visited India from 26 April to 14 May 1999. It is based on material in the project files, field
investigations and discussions with staff of the World Bank, the Governments of India (GOI) and the
states of Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan, the Project Implementation Agencies in the states and other
external agencies associated with the project. Representatives of the above agencies contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by submitting data required, arranging field visits and meetings with research
staff concerned with the project. Additional information was obtained from comments on the
mission's Aide Memoire and the draft ICR.
D. A. Ivory (Mission Leader), Kariyan Mei (Economist) and N. C. Sharma (Watershed Development
Specialist, Consultant).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Loan 3197-IN/Credit No. 213 1 -IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Government of India (GO) requested assistance from the International Development
Association (IDA) to support their priority to develop rainfed agriculture and to arrest the rate of
environmental degradation in critical areas in the states of Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan. This
initiative was in congruence with the GOI's commitment to the concept of integrated watershed
development and the establishment of a National Watershed Development Programme for India under
the Seventh Plan (1987).
Project Objectives and Components
2.         The main project objectives were to: (i) introduce improved and sustainable land
management practices in selected watersheds through the promotion of cost-effective and replicable
conservation technologies; (ii) adopt institutional arrangements to facilitate inter-agency co-ordination
in watershed planning and implementation; and (iii) ensure full participation of watershed land users
in the development and management of common properties. The four project components were (i)
watershed development works, (ii) technical support, (iii) project implementation support and (iv)
training and technical assistance.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.         Project Achievements. The overall assessment is that the project outcome was
satisfactory. The three main project objectives were substantially achieved. The programme of land
treatments were either substantially achieved or even exceeded, were generally of good quality and
most developments created positive impacts on the conservation and restoration of natural resources
and increased agricultural production. The project also substantially improved the collective capability
of government agencies to implement programmes of watershed development and achieved substantial
involvement and commitment of local communities in planning, managing and maintaining
improvements of communal and individual natural resources and assets.
4.         Costs and Financing Arrangements. Total project cost assessed after Credit closure
(April 1999) is estimated at Rs2,492 million (US$71.64 million), which is 48% above the original
estimated project cost of Rsl,687 million (US$87.46 million, but is 18% below the original estimated
project cost in Dollar terms. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR42.6 million (US$55.0 million), SDR40.75
million (US$57.74 million) had been reimbursed to the Government of India (GOI) by the end of the
extension period for disbursements (at September 5, 1999). The IBRD Loan of US$7.0 million was
cancelled during the pilot phase (21 December 1991). The undisbursed Credit at September 5, 1999
was US$2.54 million, disbursing 97% of the total Credit, and is cancelled.
5.        Implementation Timetable. The project was implemented over a three-year pilot phase
and a four-year expansion phase, which was extended by one further year, a total period of eight years.
While the states all encountered implementation problems in the pilot phase that caused delays in
execution, disbursement and in establishing sustainable management systems on non-arable areas,
these problems were resolved during the expansion phase.
iii



Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives
6.         The concept, approach and design chosen for integrated watershed management was
eminently suitable to the objectives of the project and the topography, the farming systems and the
needs for improvements to natural resources (soil, water and flora) in project areas. Overall, the state
governments gave strong support to the project, particularly in the expansion phase leading to
accelerated project implementation. The association of the project with a lead agency, the deployment
of watershed development teams in each watershed and the retention of many core staff throughout the
project duration in each state contributed substantially to satisfactory project implementation and
performance. The substantial participation of beneficiaries in providing labour and materials and their
contribution to some sharing of costs in the construction and establishment of various land treatments,
as well as their commitment to maintaining assets created, was a key factor in the success of the
project. While delays were experienced in early implementation of the project and technical assistance
was greatly under-utilised, collectively these did not impose a serious adverse effect on project
outcome.
7.         Performance of Bank. The Bank undertook eleven supervision missions, another two
specific missions concerned with assessment of monitoring and evaluation and geographic information
systems (GIS) development and a mid-term review, involving some 234 staff weeks. The regular and
constructive approach of Bank supervision and the flexibility adopted by the Bank to changing and
introducing new project interventions, following the mid-term review, contributed substantially to the
satisfactory outcome of the project.
8.         Performance of Borrower. The project implementation units in each state have
satisfactorily implemented the project. All states have mostly achieved or even exceeded the
implementation targets in the watershed development works and the quality of establishment and
construction has been generally good. While the states have tended to be too target oriented in their
approach to project implementation, they have shown commendable flexibility in refinement of certain
interventions.
Future Operations, Sustainability and Key Lessons
9.         Future Operations. Each state has prepared an implementation completion report. Their
immediate post-project plans are to complete the official Govemment transfer of assets (through
signed memoranda of understanding) on communal lands to local communities, to further assist
communities with thie maintenance and utilisation of assets (through the post-project involvement of
relevant line agencies) and to incorporate beneficial project experiences in other watershed
development projects. Some states also plan to seek further funding for new watershed projects.
10.        Project sustainability. Project sustainability will be enhanced by the above govemment
commitments. Furthermore, the enthusiasm shown by communities for the project and its very visible
benefits, should ensure their commitment to maintain and improve assets and further replicate these
developmental activities on other private and community lands.
II.        Key Lessons Learned. A number of important lessons can be drawn from  the
implementation experiences of the project. These can be conveniently grouped into (a) initiatives
taken under the project that facilitated improved implementation and (b) potential improvements of
future watershed development projects, as follows:
(a)  Initiatives that benefited  project implementation  included  (i) regular supervision and
constructive approach, (ii) flexibility to respond to the needs and priorities of beneficiaries, (iii)
emphasis on beneficiary participation and strictly following cost sharing norms, (iv) regular
training/exposure of the staff to methodologies and experiences in watershed development, (v)
maintenance of staff continuity; (vi) introduction of innovative ways to facilitate inter-state
iv



exchange of experiences, and (vii) collaboration with other donors, GOI and NGOs
programmes.
(b)  Potential improvements that should be considered in the design of future watershed
development projects include (i) the need to assign sufficient time and emphasis in the beginning
of projects to governmental and community joint planning (defining, locating and sequencing
project interventions and assigning responsibility) in watershed development, (ii) ensure direct
emphasis on women's needs, aspirations and involvement in watershed development, and (iii)
give more emphasis to policy and action plans concerning macro-level management of natural
resources, particularly issues associated with over-grazing and over-utilisation of natural fodder
and forest resources.
v






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Loan 3197-IN/Credit 2131-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.        Project Objectives and Scope. The main project objectives were to: (i) introduce improved
and sustainable land management practices in selected watersheds through the promotion of cost-effective
and replicable conservation technologies; (ii) adopt institutional arrangements to facilitate inter-agency co-
ordination in watershed planning and implementation; and (iii) ensure full participation of watershed land
users in the development and management of common properties. The objectives were to be achieved
through the implementation of four project components: (i) watershed development works, (ii) technical
support, (iii) training and technical assistance, and (iv) project implementation support. The project was
designed for a three-year pilot phase followed by a four-year expansion phase after a Mid-term Review
(MTR). The project was implemented in four watersheds in each of Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan states,
giving a total of twelve watersheds with a total gross area of 433,498 ha. Pilot areas were selected within
each of these watersheds, with total gross area of 37,130 ha, in which project activities were executed
from 1990-91 to 1993-94. In the post-MTR expansion phase, project activities were continued in pilot
areas, to complete targeted works, as well as being introduced into the rest of the watershed (an additional
gross area of 396,368 ha). About 95,000 farm and landless families were expected to benefit from the
project.
2.         Project Changes after Appraisal. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was revised
during project implementation to: (i) increase the disbursement percentages, with effect from December 5,
1991; (ii) expand the livestock development programme to additionally include project areas in Gujarat
and Orissa States (March 17, 1995); (iii) approve two additional project districts in Orissa State (February
21, 1997); and (iv) extend the Credit by one year to close on March 31, 1999.
3.         Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives were clear, realistic and very appropriate
to the needs for improved management of the natural resources of the country and were in line with
Government policy. While the project goal of integrated watershed development necessarily resulted in a
complex project design, the borrower/implementing agency had the basic capacity and commitment to
implement the project successfully and potential risks were minimised satisfactorily by appropriate project
initiatives.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objective 1: Introduce Improved and Sustainable Land Management Practices
4.         This objective aimed to stabilise natural resources in the twelve selected watersheds through
the adoption of a menu of appropriate land treatments (some 21 options), which emphasised soil and
moisture conservation and the introduction of more sustainable land managemrnt systems on both non-
arable public lands and arable private lands. On non-arable public lands, this was brought about through
land treatments, including reforestation of degraded forested lands, and multi-tiered tree plantations, silvi-
I



pasture and native pasture development. On arable private land this was brought about through the
establishment of vegetative contour barriers and demonstrations of associated production systems, such as
agro-forestry, alley cropping and dryland horticulture. In addition, engineering and vegetative structures
were introduced on both arable and non-arable land to stabilise natural drainage lines, as well as provide
increased replenishment of groundwater and local supply of irrigation water. Overall, targets set for
establishment/construction of land treatments were mostly achieved or exceeded in project areas in all
three states (refer Table 5 of Part II and Appendix C) and general design and construction quality was
good. A summary overview of achievements is given in the following sections.
5.         Non-arable Government/Community Lands in Upper Watersheds. Land stabilisation in
upper watersheds on non-arable lands was associated with improvement to (i) government forested lands
and (ii) communal (panchayat) lands, both of which are used for livestock grazing and fuelwood
gathering. A large area of natural forest on government land was rehabilitated in project areas in Orissa
State (27,139 ha), with smaller areas rehabilitated in Rajasthan State (1,936 ha) and Gujarat State (193 ha).
The survival and potential benefit of planted trees was good in Orissa but target planting achievement and
tree survival was low in Gujarat and Rajasthan, due to some lack of commitment and difficult climatic
conditions.
6.         On communal lands, about 20,000 ha of mixed tree species were planted in multi-tiered
plantations (MTC) in each state. Gap-filling replanting was undertaken in the second year. Overall
survival under MTC was moderate to good due mainly to greater commitment and care taken by
communities to protect, manage and maintain these areas compared with natural forest areas. Some
benefits (gum, fuelwood and fodder) have already become available to the community groups responsible
for planting and managing these plantations. The involvement and commitment of communities in
management of off-farm developments on communal land has been generally good because of greater
awareness of existing and potential benefits to be derived, project subsidisation of establishment costs, the
allocation of rights of use to specified individual families and the importance of extending their limited
farm resource base. Some 2,760, 5,934 and 27,039 ha of communal land have also been planted to tree and
pasture species (legumes and grasses) in silvi-pasture systems in Orissa, Gujarat and Rajasthan states,
respectively. Target planting areas were exceeded in Orissa and Rajasthan but were under target in
Gujarat. Tree survival has been generally good, broadcast sown herbaceous legume (Stylosanthes harnaza)
density has been excellent, and broadcast sown grass (Cenchrus ciliaris) density gradually increasing.
Forage production has been increasing with time under cut and carry systems of management. Protection
of silvi-pasture areas from grazing livestock has been a key element to successful plant survival and
productivity. Fodder is often sold to generate income for community funds for maintenance and further
development of such systems. Pasture seeding in natural grazing lands has also been undertaken on 1,723,
839 and 7,102 ha in Orissa, Gujarat and Rajasthan states, respectively. This was greatly under target
planting area in Gujarat and Orissa. Generally, this activity has not been fully successful due to
uncontrolled severe grazing pressure by livestock, lack of protective fencing and harsh climate. The
rehabilitation of some 163 ha of shifting cultivation land in Orissa State, out of a targeted 1,416 ha, has
also not been successful, possibly because of inadequate awareness and motivation of communities (tribal
groups) and lack of demonstration of alternative production systems that are economically viable and
environmentally sustainable. The rehabilitation of 10,330 ha ofsaline/alkaline lands in Rajasthan State has
been very successful in transforming previously barren lands to agriculturally productive lands.
7.         Stabilisation of Natural Drainagc Lines. In all the four watersheds of Orissa State and in
relatively high rainfall and sloping land in Rajasthan State (Udaipur and Bhilwara districts), drainage lines
pose a severe erosion problem. During the pilot phase only 25% of the project cost was earmarked for
drainage line treatments, but following the emphasis given to the problem in the MTR, allocated project
cost was increased to 35%. Drainage line treatments included construction of: (i) brushwood/vegetative
stabilising structures, (ii) minor masonry structure/loose rock check dams, (iii) earthen run-off and
2



medium masonry structures and (iv) water storage structures. Brushwood check dams were not effective
as either the brushwood was stolen for fuelwood or was eaten by white ants. Live vegetative structures
were found to be more effective in higher rainfall areas. In Orissa State, Vetiver grass was found to be
very effective in preventing erosion on steep gully faces, whilelpomea species was effective in Gujarat
and Rajasthan states. In all the hilly areas of Orissa, Gujarat, and Rajasthan,minor masonry and loose rock
check dams were found to be highly cost-effective. Check dams reduced silt load in downstream water,
thereby increasing storage capacity and life of downstream medium masonry structures and within a two-
to three-year period in Rajasthan (Udaipur and Ajmer districts), levelled the land surface, thereby
providing improved lateral spread of water and recharge of ground waters in upstream areas.
8.         Farmers on private lands have benefited directly from  water controlling and harvesting
structures built in natural drainage lines in lower parts of the watersheds. Earthen runoff structures, usually
constructed at the downstream end of gullies, were found to be very popular amongst farmers in all project
areas. These structures have not only provided additional drinking water to animals during dry spells but
have assisted in the recharge of ground waters, increased soil moisture regime of downstream fields,
provided water for supplemental irrigation on private land and controlled runoff water and soil erosion.
Concrete and rock diversion structures were also constructed on natural drainage lines and seasonal
streams. This has resulted in increased irrigation area in adjacent fields on private land for growing rice (in
Orissa State) and other field crops, vegetables and fruits (in all project areas).
9.         On-farni Developments. The improvement in soil and water conservation on arable private
lands has involved the on-farm establishment/construction of a range of both vegetative and engineering
structures to reduce soil erosion and to harvest/utilise rainwater more effectively. Among various land
treatments undertaken, the most widespread was the contour line planting of vegetative barriers
(hedgerows) (with V-ditch) to protect an estimated 19,580, 97,940 and 64,500 ha of crop land in Orissa,
Gujarat and Rajasthan states, respectively. The establishment of Vetiver grass as a vegetative hedgerow
was quite successful (>60% survival) in Orissa State because of higher rainfall and resulted in 18-90%
reduction in runoff under different slope and rainfall situations. Reduction in soil loss was also rated to be
good (about 55%) and yield increase in test crops were between 16-40%. However, in Gujarat and
Rajasthan states, Vetiver hedgerows showed poor survival and had little effect on crop productivity. Other
adapted local grasses were planted subsequently as vegetative hedges after the MTR and have proved
moderately successful. Overall, the success of this activity is only considered moderate due to widespread
failure in plant survival and inappropriate placement of vegetative hedges on farm boundaries or flat land.
Crop demonstrations (rainfed) were conducted on a total of 14,697 ha in Orissa State, 9,540 ha in Gujarat
State and 4,547 ha in Rajasthan State on lands treated with vegetative contour hedgerows. This was less
than the targeted areas in all states. Most of the crop demonstrations were based on the project supplying
"mini-kits", which included improved crop varieties and small doses of chemical fertiliser, with other
improvements undertaken by the farmers. Significant gains in crop yield compared with traditional
practices were demonstrated for paddy, maize, pulses and mustard in Orissa State (10-30%) and for pearl
millet and pulses (30-40%) an.d for maize (22%) in Rajasthan State. However, these demonstrations did
not include many of the proposed soil conservation tillage and planting practices designed to improve soil
and moisture conservation - basically because the local project staff had insufficient time and lacked
competence in this activity. The degree of adoption and continuation of demonstrated technologies in
subsequent years has not been systematically assessed, but is considered only partial based on the outcome
of average area yield assessments.
10.        Large-scale on-farm  planting of trees for establishment of alley cropping/farm  forestry
systems was undertaken. Benefiting areas were estimated at 13,391 ha in Orissa State, 12,767 ha in
Rajasthan State and 7,947 ha in Gujarat State. However, the impact on maintenance of soil resources and
production of fuelwood and timber has been small, due to trees being widely spaced and low tree survival
as a result of farmer disinterest and lack of protection from grazing animals where livestock roam freely
3



after crop harvest. By contrast, a significant impact is to be expected from the planting of horticultural
crops (fruits and vegetables), particularly under high rainfall conditions and supplemental irrigation. In
Orissa State under dryland cultivation, but with high rainfall, 11,856 ha has been planted to mango, guava,
cashew nut, jack fruit, ber, lime and custard apple with tree survival percentage of 60-90%. By contrast, in
Rajasthan and Gujarat states, dry land horticulture did not do well without supplementary irrigation. After
the MTR 3,195 ha and 1,699 ha has been brought under mixed horticulture in Rajasthan and Gujarat
states, respectively, with supplementary irrigation or hand watering. Planted areas greatly exceeded targets
and tree survival has been moderately good.
II.        Livestock Development. At the farm  level, emphasis was also placed on livestock
development, first in Rajasthan State and then subsequently in the other states with the agreed change in
the project design (March 1995). As described above, various land treatments were introduced on non-
arable lands to increase feed supplies for livestock. In addition, the project supported demonstrations of
on-farm forage production (sorghum, oats and lucerne) in all states and introduced para-veterinary
services (Gopal) in Rajasthan State. The Gopal programme was very highly appreciated by beneficiaries in
providing artificial insemination, castration of undesirable bulls, a progeny improvement programme in
cattle, sheep and goat and vaccination against important livestock diseases, all at a very nominal cost.
12.        Nurseries. Project funds were provided for the establishment of government nurseries to
supply grass planting materials for establishment of vegetative soil and moisture conservation barriers, and
tree seedlings for reforestation of natural forest areas, multi-tier tree plantations, silvi-pasture systems and
private orchards. The project established some 264 nurseries in Gujarat State, 123 in Orissa State, and
1,600 in Rajasthan State. In some cases these nurseries were established in co-operation with farmers. An
important feature in Rajasthan State was that local farmers established Kishan nurseries (under
government supervision) for the production of all tree seedlings, while in Orissa State some 19 nurseries
were located in farmers' fields for raising Vetiver grass. Thus local farmers in many areas have developed
the skills to produce seedling materials, which should result in the establishment of private nurseries
beyond project closure.
13.        Special activities from reserve fund. A modest reserve fund was provided for activities that
could not be foreseen during project preparation, but whichi would contribute to project objectives by use
of cost effective and replicable technologies. This fund was used to finance the purchase of small
equipment and implements, storage bins, fuel-efficient devices and bio-fertilizers, and the construction of
minor roads, culverts, recharge structures and ponds. Unfortunately, this fund was not envisaged as a basic
instrument to provide flexibility to expand or introduce new technologies that were perceived as being
very beneficial to project objectives.
Objective 2: Facilitate Inter-agency Co-ordination in Watershed Planning and Implementation
14.        The effective implementation of the project depended on good planning, management,
monitoring and technical and non-technical support. This depended on the establishment of an effective
planning, management and monitoring capability of the project implementation unit, strong external
technical support from line agencies of the state government, research organisations and specialised
technical assistance and effective support from non-government organisations to foster and organise
community involvement in project implementation.
Project Implementation Agency
15.        Management. The modalities for execution of the project in each state were essentially the
same with lead agency responsibility given to the Gujarat State Land Development Corporation, a semi-
autonomous government agency (Gujarat State), the Department of Soil Conservation (Orissa State) and
4



the Department of Watershed Development and Soil Conservation (Rajasthan State). These agencies were
able to develop an effective project implementation capacity through the project management units and the
specially constituted Watershed Development Teams in each watershed. Staff were deputed from relevant
government line agencies to provide responsibility for technical co-ordination between the project and
these agencies.
16.       Planning. A holistic approach to management and use of natural plant, land and water
resources for agricultural and forest production within naturally defined watershed boundaries placed
considerable emphasis on govemment planning and capacity building. Watershed development depends
most critically on achieving a blend of macro-level activities to protect and enhance the natural plant, soil
and water resources and a range of desirable activities that transparently provide short-, medium- and
long-term benefits to the rural communities. Initial planning was dependent on utilisation of existing
natural resource information and developing skills to utilise this information in watershed development
planning. The establishment of geographic information systems (GISs) and strong community
participation in determining an action plan for sequential introduction of project interventions in watershed
areas was seen as extremely important to the planning process. However, the initial project watershed
development planning at government level was only weakly combined with participative consultation with
local communities. Participatory planning improved later in the project.
17.       A prototype Geographic Informnation System (GIS) was to be implemented in all states to
support long range planning and management activities at the watershed level. The GIS was to be used for
two major tasks:
*  prioritisation of macro-watershed development areas in those districts having scope for watershed
development using remote sensing and GIS techniques, and
*  creation of a detailed Watershed Management Information System  (WMIS) to support
cartographic, statistical and progress reporting needs of the project.
18.       In Rajasthan State, good progress has been made in developing a GIS. Initially this was
undertaken by the State Remote Sensing Application Centre, of the Department of Science and
Technology to prioritise macro-watershed development areas and needs. Subsequently, the Department of
Watershed Management and Soil Conservation undertook the creation of a detailed WMIS. Plans have not
been made for every micro-watershed because of limitations of staff, funds and equipment. It is suggested
that their aims were over-ambitious and it would have been more profitable to concentrate on developing
plans for macro- rather than micro-watersheds. The development of a GIS in Rajasthan also benefited
from the early support given by the GIS unit in the Arid Zone Research Centre of the GOT in Jodphur.
19.       In other states, very little progress was made on the development of an operational GIS. In
Orissa State, only preliminary and limited micro-watershed plans have been made using information
contained in the GIS. In Gujarat State, only the GIS software systems have been installed in a computer.
While limited training on GIS development and operation has been provided this has clearly been
insufficient in Orissa and Gujarat states. These states also suffered from not having a GIS set up in any
government agency to provide assistance to the project unit. Furthermore, the scheduled external technical
assistance and support to be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, that was so
badly needed to make the GiSs operational, was not forthcoming.
20.        Support was also provided by the project to develop basic soil and land use information for
use in planning watershed development. In Rajasthan State, semi-detailed soil surveys were undertaken for
the entire expansion area by the Soil Survey Organisation (Agricultural Department) during the first two
years of the project. This information was used to prepare 1:25,000 soil type and land capability maps of
project expansion areas, evaluate land capability status of areas and demarcate saline/alkaline areas within
5



watersheds. In Gujarat State, the project also provided financial, technical and staff resources to conduct
required physical surveys and information system development for the expansion areas of the project.
Planning was manual, using Khasra maps as the base map, which were overlaid with land capability
classification, contours and planned treatments. In Orissa State, soil and land use surveys had been
undertaken prior to project preparation.
21.        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The provision for M&E under the project was
perceived as consisting of three distinct, but inter-related modules to reflect the different purposes,
contents, methods, organisational and staff skill requirements. The modules consisted of (i) progress
reporting, (ii) result assessment and (iii) impact evaluation. The M&E units have produced a range of good
quality reports of a more general as well as detailed nature. Some field surveys and assessments have been
conducted on various aspects of effects of watershed treatments on water and soil erosion (water runoff
and silt loads in streams) as well as effects of vegetative treatments on agricultural production. Because
the M&E units were concerned with the first two modules, more emphasis has been given to monitoring
physical and financial targets with rather less emphasis given to evaluation. Project impact assessments in
all states were contracted to and conducted by an agency external to the project implementation unit~.
These assessments included baseline surveys, on-going analysis and final impact assessment. While these
impact assessments were qualitatively very thorough and provide useful information for the ICR, their
value to economic assessment of the overall project is mixed because quantitative assessments of impacts
on agricultural production are limited or are narrowly based (Appendix B).
Technical Support
22.        Adaptive research. Institutional responsibility for conducting production-oriented research
at state level rests with the zonal research stations under the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). The
research programmes of the SAUs and their associated research stations were already being funded by the
World Bank under the National Agricultural Research Project. Supplementary support under this project
was therefore confined to operational research funding and restricted to priority research topics not
adequately addressed in zonal research programmes. For example, (i) identification and evaluation of
various plant species (grasses and shrubs) suitable for effective vegetative soil and moisture practices, (ii)
identification of suitable species for agro-forestry, fodder and silvi-pasture development, (iii) development
of optimal, location specific land use systems suitable for the project zones, and (iv) impact evaluation of
technologies introduced for soil and moisture conservation. The research undertaken on these topics by thie
SAUs was generally of good quality and important to the modification, adaptation and improvement of
on-farm and off-farm technologies introduced under the project. However, the benefit of this research to
farmners (and the landless) was only partially realised as the necessary linkage and follow up by
government line departments of agriculture and extension, forestry and livestock to demonstrate and
promote these technologies was weak. Little emphasis was given under this component to more basic
studies to understand the hydrological cycle and evaluate the efficacy of soil and water conservation
technologies (vegetative and engineering structures) on soil fertility and soil water and groundwater
supply and value of additional captured water for irrigation purposes. The inclusion of such studies would
have been very valuable in the design and siting of vegetative and physical soil and water conservation
structures.
(i) Final Impact Evaluation Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project in Gujarat, 1998, Agricultural
Finance Corporation Ltd.
(ii) Impact Evaluation Study of Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project Orissa Component,
December 1998, Agricultural and Rural Development Consultancy Society, Orissa.
(iii) Draft Impact Evaluation Report, March 1999, College of Technology and Agricultural Engineering,
Rajasthan Agricultural University.
6



23.        Technical assistance. Funds were provided for external technical assistance to meet
inadequacies in local technical knowledge and expertise in land use planning/GIS development, adaptive
research, local institution building and consultative planning. The component was also designed to cover
the cost of special studies and the GIS hardware/software and training needed for land use planning.
Considerable delay was encountered by the GOI in finalising agreed technical assistance for the project.
Funds available for technical assistance were greatly under-utilised in all states, even though it is apparent
that great benefit would have been derived from external assistance in GIS development, land use and
consultative project planning, particularly in the very early stages of project implementation.
24.        Inter-agency collaboration. It was recognised in the design of the project that most project
interventions were pre-designed engineering and vegetative structures and production modules that would
need technical back up support from agencies outside the lead project agency to ensure their maintenance,
sustainability, adaptation/modification and productive output. Also that the work of project staff would be
mostly fully committed to implementation of the conservation technologies and structures. The adaptive
research and technical assistance components were two measures to try and satisfy the need for further
follow up technical support. The project also sought to encourage external agency collaboration with other
key line departments (agriculture extension, horticulture, irrigation, forestry and livestock) of the state
government through specialist staff deputed to the project from the relevant line agencies. However,
technical and extension back up support to project activities from other line agencies was generally weak,
particularly in Gujarat and Orissa states.
Human Resource Development
25.        Funds for training were provided to develop knowledge and skills of project staff in
watershed development concepts and strategies, soil and water conservation practices, consultative
planning, agricultural technologies to be introduced under the project, institution-building skills and M&E.
Training was also provided for NGO staff. In Orissa State, 407 project and NGO staff received trainer
training from the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology. In Gujarat State, 2,712 field staff and
561 senior staff were trained on various aspects of technologies introduced under the project and 43 staff
visited other states on study tours and 750 project staff undertook study tours to other project areas within
states. Workshops were held during the project to discuss implementation strategies to improve
sustainability and replicability of project activities. No information was provided on training activities in
Rajasthan.
Objective 3: Participation of Watershed Land Users in the Development and Management of
Communal Lands
26.        A key aim of the project was to establish (i) community awareness of the concept of
development, planning and management of watersheds, (ii) community involvement in selection and
participation in local land development initiatives, and (iii) community responsibility for management and
maintenance of assets created. This was to be achieved through a process of participative consultation
between government and communities and the use of non-government organisations as partners in
watershed development.
27.        Non-government organisations (NGOs). The project sought to utilize NGOs to develop
community awareness, ensure community involvement and create local organisations for future
management of their local natural resources as an essential part of the watershed development concept.
Varied experiences were obtained with NGO involvement in the three states. NGO coverage was most
comprehensive in Orissa (264 villages), moderate in Gujarat (110 villages) and non-existent in Rajasthan.
In all cases, however, NGO involvement in the project was delayed by at least two years. The overall
impact of NGOs seems to have been small. Many small NGOs were considered for inclusion in the project
7



but were rejected because of lack of competence or unsuitable mandate and interest. In Orissa, the four
NGOs used were found to be weak in their technical and management capacity and grass roots
commitment. Local NGOs in Gujarat were also not conversant with the watershed development concept
and wanted greater financial and activity independence. However, in specific instances NGOs did make a
positive contribution to community development and community involvement in the project.
28.        Beneficiary groups. In all the three states "Users Associations/Committees" have been
constituted in many villages for the management and maintenance of assets created under the project. This
has been as a result of the efforts of project staff rather than of NGOs. Great enthusiasm has been
generated amongst the members of many of these associations, particularly in project areas in Rajasthan
and in Gujarat. These associations have started collection of some funds from beneficiary members to
sustain maintenance and management activities on Government/Panchayat land and for maintenance of
water harvesting and water control structures. The total number of user groups established reached a total
of 1,627 (164 in Gujarat, 1,026 in Orissa and 437 in Rajasthan) by the end of 1998 in project areas.
However, only about 50% are working effectively, indicating that the community awareness and training
programmes, that are necessarily an essential adjunct to the establishment of user groups, have been
inadequate.
29.        Farmer training. Training for farmers has been aimed at improving technical and local
institution-building skills. Many short training courses were conducted for village committee
members/farmers of villages as well as short study tours to other project areas and to relevant research
centres and institutions. In Gujarat State, some 5,3 15 farmers received training in various aspects of
technologies introduced under the project and 840 farmers undertook study tours to other project areas
within the state. Some 12,964 farmers received training in Orissa State over a five-year period. Impact
assessment of farmer training has indicated that while there was good general awareness of the project,
much more training was required to provide a satisfactory level of improvement of farmers technical
knowledge and skills. No information on farmer training was provided for Rajasthan State.
Project Financing and Costs
30.        Project costs. Total project cost at Credit closure is estimated at Rs2,492 million (US$71.64
million), whichi is 48% above the original estimated project cost of Rsl,687 million (US$87.46 million)',
due to (i) price escalation during project implementation and (ii) increased physical achievement, but is
18% below the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms.
31.        Credit disbursements. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR42.6 million (US$55.0 million),
SDR40.75 million (US$57.74 million) had been disbursed to the Government of India (GOI) by the end of
the extension period for disbursements (at September 5, 1999). With the depreciation of the US$ against
SDR, the Credit amount is now re-estimated at US$60.24 million. The IBRD Loan of US$7.0 million was
cancelled during the pilot phase (21 December 1991). The undisbursed Credit at September 5, 1999 was
US$2.54 million, utilising 97% of the total Credit, and is cancelled.
32.        Credit management. Government counterpart expenditure on the project during the first two
years was unsatisfactory, particularly in Gujarat and Orissa, but later improved. Cumulative expenditure
lagged against appraisal estimates in all states. Out of the estimated total project cost Rs2,492 million,
about Rsl,967 million equivalent has been disbursed. Thus the Credit has financed 79% of total project
The total estimated project cost quoted (US$87.46 M) is less than indicated in the summary total project cost in
the SAR (US$9 1.8 M) due to an apparent error by the Bank in aggregation of the total project cost from summary
project costs for the individual states.
8



cost compared with an expected 55% IDA financing. The GOI and participating states were expected to
finance 24.1% of project costs, but financed much less.
33.        Beneficiary cost sharing. In the pilot phase, beneficiaries shared the cost to the extent of 25-
40% in horticulture and 10% on the establishment of vegetative barriers. In the expansion phase, cost
sharing in the form of labour and materials was increased up to 40% on private arable and 30% on non-
arable land and 15% on community non-arable lands. Beneficiary cost sharing was expected to be 6.2%
(US$5.7 million) of total project cost, but is anticipated to be larger. State governments did not provide
data on actual beneficiary contributions.
Project Benefits
34.        The direct beneficiaries of the project are the rural poor, marginal, small (about 75% of total)
and large farmers (J 0-15%), landless and members of tribal groups amounting to a total of about 100,000
rural families. The benefits of the project can be broadly classified into four categories: (i) on-farmn
benefits; (ii) off-farm benefits; (iii) environmental and natural resources benefits; and (iv) other benefits.
On-farm benefits include increase in production of rainfed crops, irrigated crops, horticulture, farm
forestry, and animal husbandry products. Off-farm benefits include timber, fuelwood, and fodder.
Environmental and natural resources benefits comprise reduction in loss of productivity of agricultural
land from soil erosion, improved in situ rainfall retention in soils, reduction of soil loss, improvement in
soil fertility and rise of ground water table. Other benefits include employment generation, increased
family income from increased sale of agricultural products, reduction of migration towards cities, labour
saving for women due to increased availability of water for both human and animals, and benefits outside
the project area, such as lesser incidence and severity of flooding. These benefits can be confirmed
through project literature, field visits, and discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. However,
quantification of these benefits is extremely difficult mainly because there are many project activities that
are spread over 12 watersheds with quite different agro-climatic conditions and, by nature, the impact of
benefits from watershed development is necessarily very gradual.
Financial and Economic Analysis
35.        The impact of the project has been re-evaluated, and the economic rates of return (ERRs) re-
estimated using updated prices, final project costs, and data and information on yields and inputs provided
to the mission. Detailed information on these analyses and assumptions made are given in Appendix B.
The analysis of impact on representative farm  income indicates that over a period of 10 years, farm
income would rise by about 35% over that of the without project situation. However, the impact on farm
income would be only gradual and slow in early stages before the generation of additional income from
horticultural developments, which at a later stage would provide a significant contribution to overall farn
income.
36.        The findings of the economic analysis indicate that the project is economically viable,
althouglh the ERR for the whole project - estimated at 14% - is lower than the SAR's estimate of 17.7%.
While all three states achieved acceptable ERRs, there are variations among participating states, with
Orissa State appearing to be the highest (18%), followed by Gujarat (16%) and Rajasthan (11%). The
economic impact in Rajasthan was less than anticipated, although this state has experienced success in
institutional innovations that are not reflected in the estimation of the ERRs. The largest on-farm project
activity was the establishment of contour vegetative barriers to reduce soil erosion and increasein situ soil
moisture. However, as indicated previously the success achieved was much less than anticipated, but not
quantifiable. Sensitivity analysis of the ERR with various proportions of rainfed crop areas benefiting
from the contour vegetative hedges (CVI-) suggests that the ERR is only weakly sensitive to the benefited
areas assumed in the analysis. However, even with a rigorous assumption that only 10% of the area
9



planted with CVH would benefit, the project is still economically viable at 13%. Overall ERRs would be
higher if all externalities associated with environmental, natural resources and social benefits were
captured in the analysis. However, the information and data provided to the mission did not allow the
incorporation of exogenous benefits in the analysis.
37.        Analysis of the impact of each activity on the overall project benefits indicates that: (a)
horticulture and irrigation components are the major contributors to the overall benefits - they represent
36%-63% and 21%-33%, respectively, of the total benefits, depending on the state; (b) the contribution
from rainfed crops is rather limited and estimated at 2%-1 1% (based on 20% of area treated successfully
under CVH); and (c) forest products and fodder contribute 1 1%-27% of the total benefits. As indicated in
Appendix B, the impact of the environmental aspect is underestimated, where it is assumed in the analysis
that there would be an annual saving of 0.5% of the "without project" benefits (estimated at 2%-1 1% of
total benefits).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
38.        The overall outcome of the project is considered to be satisfactory. The project substantially
achieved the physical targets set for introduction of various land treatments to increase sustainability of
natural resources and create increased agricultural production and income generation. It also greatly
strengthened the capacity of the government to implement programmes of integrated watershed
development and created a greater participation of local communities in planning, managing and utilising
their land and water resources in a more sustainable and ecologically friendly manner.
39.        Factors not gcnerally subject to government control. The substantial participation of
beneficiaries in providing labour and materials and contributing to some sharing of costs in the
construction and establishment of various land treatments, as well as their commitment to maintaining
assets created, has been a key factor in the success of the project. The regular and constructive approach of
Bank supervision and the flexibility introduced to change and introduce new project interventions
following the mid-term review were also substantial factors in the satisfactory outcome of the project.
However, the participation and contribution of NGOs in building awareness, in ensuring community
involvement and in creating local organisations was mixed. The involvement of several different NGOs in
the project was confined to Orissa and Gujarat states. However, in these states NGO participation in the
project was considerably delayed and subsequently did not operate in all villages. The overall contribution
of NGOs was less than expected, although in certain instances NGOs provided a substantial contribution
in both states.
40.        Factors generally subject to government control. Overall, the state governments gave
strong support to the project. However, early project progress in Orissa State was most disappointing due
to constraints imposed by delays in project staff appointments and vehicle purchases. Budgetary support in
Gujarat and Orissa states was also unsatisfactory in the first two years of the project leading to significant
delays in project implementation. However, good support from all governments in the expansion phase
accelerated project implementation. Support by the GOI and the state governments for technical assistance
under the project was poor. This particularly adversely affected the development of the GISs in Orissa and
Gujarat states. A weakness in establishing effective co-ordination with line departments was experienced
in Gujarat and Orissa states, which constrained effective follow-up through additional technical support
from line departments to optimise the benefits from investments made in on- and off-farm development.
41.        Factors generally subicct to implementation agency control. The association of the project
with a lead agency, the deployment of watershed development teams in each watershed and the retention
of several core staff throughout the project duration in each state contributed substantially to project
implementation and performance. However, the project implementation units were rather preoccupied
10



with the achievement of set targets, rather than to view the technological options in the SAR as a menu of
interventions to be selected on the basis of local needs. This rigidity in implementation meant that some
inappropriate technologies were introduced during pre-MTR, thus reducing project effectiveness. Greater
flexibility was introduced later in the project life with beneficial results. Another beneficial feature was the
active use of inter-state exchange of experiences through seminars and visits for project staff. In Rajasthan
State, where NGOs were not used, the government successfully undertook programmes to create
beneficiary awareness and participation in the project and to establish user groups.
42.        Factors associated with project design. The concept, approach and design chosen for
integrated watershled management was eminently suitable to the objectives of the project and the
topography, the farming systems and the needs for improvements to natural resources (soil, water and
plants) in project areas. In hindsight, improvements could be made to the modalities of implementation,
the technology choice and the type of technical support required, as indicated later in Section 1. Such
beneficial changes would have improved project impact and outcome.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
43.        A very important initiative to achieve physical sustainability of the assets created under the
project has been the completion of memoranda of understanding (MOUs) between the Govemment and
the community user groups. The MOUs seek to establish a long-term agreement with the user groups in
each community to ensure sustainability of drainage line works, afforestation, silvi-pasture and multi-tier
tree developments and to formally hand over the assets to them. In addition, the project units have handed
over govemmental responsibility for overseeing the maintenance of these assets to the respective line
agencies. This together with the enthusiasm shown by communities for the project should ensure that they
would maintain and improve assets and further replicate these developmental activities on other private
and community lands.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
44.        The Bank undertook eleven supervision missions, two specific missions concerned with
monitoring and evaluation and geographic information systems (GIS) development and a mid-term review
during project implementation, involving some 234 staff weeks. This represents a moderately high level of
supervision but is a consequence of the extremely complex nature of the project. Supervisory mission
reports indicated that the missions undertook regular detailed reviews of implementation progress of the
project and while indicating deficiencies in implementation gave helpful and constructive advice to
overcome such problems. With very few exceptions, supervision missions were staffed from the WB
resident mission in India and local consultants. This has provided more continuous contact and assistance
in implementation. The WB also exhibited commendable flexibility in agreeing to extend investments into
additional areas and reallocate funds into more important activities following the MTR. There has been
universal appreciation by the project staff in the states of the assistance given by the Bank in the
implementation of this project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
45.        The project implementation units in each state have satisfactorily implemented the project.
All states have mostly achieved or even exceeded the implementation targets in the watershed
development works and the quality of establishment and construction has been generally good. While the
states all encountered implementation problems causing delays in execution, disbursement and in
establishing a sustainable management system on non-arable areas in the pilot phase, these problems were
resolved during the expansion phase. While the states have tended to be too targeted oriented in their
I1



approach to project implementation during pre-MTR period, they have shown a commendable level of
flexibility in refinement of certain interventions during post-MTR period.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.       The overall assessment is that the project outcome was satisfactory. The three main project
objectives were substantially achieved. The programme of land treatments was either mostly substantially
achieved or even exceeded (refer Table 5, Part 11), wvas of good quality and most developments created
positive impacts on the conservation and restoration of natural resources and increased agricultural
production and family incomes. The project also substantially improved the collective capability of
government agencies to implement programmes of watershed development and achieved substantial
involvement and commitment of local communities in planning, managing and maintaining improvements
of communal and individually owned natural resources and assets. While delays were experienced in early
implementation of the project and technical assistance was greatly under-utilised, collectively these did
not impose a serious adverse effect on project outcome.
H. FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
47.        Each state and the GOI have prepared an implementation completion report. The states have
indicated that their immediate post-project plans are to complete the official handing over of assets on
communal (Panchayat) lands to local communities, to further assist communities with the maintenance
and utilisation of assets through the involvement of other line agencies and to incorporate beneficial
project experiences in other watershed development projects. Some states also plan to seek further external
funding for new watershed projects.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
48.       There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of this
project, including:
(a)  Participatory planning. The initial level of macro-level watershed planning undertak-en
to define project interventions and locations was variable between states because of the
variable level of basic information available on natural resources and variable experience
and capacity to undertake watershed planning. There was also negligible initial
involvement of communities in this planning process. All states have emphasised the
essential need to assign sufficient time and support in the beginning of projects to setting
up planning procedures and systems and to fully involve the communities in defining
their needs and involvement. The success of constituted user groups in Rajasthan,
without NGO involvement, also emphasises the importance of the government strongly
supporting and promoting the establishment and involvement of local village
organisations in watershed development.
(b)  Community benefits. Successful watershed development is greatly dependent on
community commitment, participation, benefit and maintenance of assets created. The
successful outcome and sustainability of this project was very dependent on project
design including community awareness building, farmer and community training,
promoting community (beneficiary) savings schemes and especially providing
interventions that provide short-, as well as more medium- and long-term benefits to
individual farmers and communities.
12



(c)   Research support. Technical support for the project was too narrowly confined to
adaptive agricultural research. A form of contract research would have been preferable
where research organisations were contracted to undertake specific research on a wider
range of issues. The inclusion of more basic research on the efficacy of project
technologies and structures on the protection and improvement of natural resources
(plant, water and soil) and the environment would have been beneficial in modifying or
designing new structures and technologies.
(d)  Women in development. The project gave little direct emphasis to women's needs and
aspirations. Given cultural limitations that preclude women's full and open participation
in community decision making, community-building and training activities should have
focused on formation of specific women user groups, technical training for women and
training on other village-based income generating activities for women.
(e)   Management of natural resources. Despite project interventions to increase feed
supplies for livestock, natural resources in the upper watersheds in all states remain under
considerable stress from overgrazing by livestock. Emphasis should have been given to
policy and action plans to restrict livestock numbers, combined with more active
programmes to exclude grazing and rehabilitate forest areas.
(f)  Inter-agency collaboration. Although line departments seconded staff to the project,
their role was mainly linked to inter-agency co-ordination. Specific funds should have
been provided for line agencies to undertake supporting follow-up work to reinforce the
benefits generated by project interventions. Benefits to farmers and communities would
have been increased if line agencies concemed with agricultural extension, irrigation and
livestock and forestry development were more involved in follow-up programmes to
intensify crop, livestock and forest production.
(g)  Non-government organisations (NGOs). Although the efficacy of NGOs used varied
both within and between states, in principle it is agreed that they have an important role
to develop community awareness, ensure community involvement and create local
organisation for future management of their local natural resources. A more positive
contribution would have been obtained from NGOs if they had been included in the
project from the beginning, had participated in the initial project planning process and
had received awareness and appropriate technical training from govemment or larger
NGOs.
13



PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                        Eil                        El            [7
Sector policies                       El            El           Ei            F
Financial objectives                 El1            El            El           El
Institutional development                           El            El            El
Physical objectives                  F1             El EC                        Fl
Poverty reduction                    El                          El              Ol
Gender issues                         El           El            Eli            El
Other social objectives               El           F1             0            E
Environmental objectives                E:                         El          El
Public sector management             El            m             []            E
Private sector development              I          E             El            E71
Other (specify)                       El           EJ             El            El
B. Project sustainability            Likely        Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)           (O)          (1)
El           l O        O
Highly
C. Bank performance               satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(1)           (I)          (1)
Identification                        JE                        El
Preparation assistance             El                           El 
Appraisal                           El                          El
Supervision                        EC                           El
14



Highly
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)          (1)          (1)
Preparation                                    F7]
Implementation          
Covenant compliance               FIZI1                     Lii
Operation (if applicable)          Li           LI          Ei
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
15     (O             O)              (4)
1 5



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                                 Purpose                                  Year of     Status
approval
Preceding operations It
1. Kandi Watershed and   Aimed at reversing man-made ecological degradation in watersheds in the  1980   Closed
Area Development Project  lower Shivalik Hills in the Punjab and helping to develop the capacity to      March 31,
(Ln. 1897-IN)            carry out such rehabilitation elsewhere. The multi-disciplinary included four   1988
main components: soil conservation, land leveling and re-vegetation in upper
catchments; flood protection and irrigation works in lower areas; on-farm
development; and livestock improvement.
2. Himalayan Watershed    To develop nine watersheds covering 312,000 ha in the intermediate hill  1983  Closed
Management Project (Ln.   areas of north-westem Uttar Pradesh. Project activities included               September
2295-IN)                 establishment of fuelwood and fodder tree plantations, farm forestry            30, 1992
program, construction of irrigation channels, buffalo for cattle cxchange and
stall feeding program, improved horticultural practices and popularization of
more fuel-efficient stoves. However, these proved to be neither very
effective, nor replicable, nor attractive to intended beneficiaries.
3. Pilot Project for     To test and verify, on a fairly wide scale and under different agro-  1984      Closed
Watershed Development    environmental and socio-economic conditions, the technical and economic         December
in Rainfed Areas (Cr.    viability and replicability of technological packages that would increase and   31, 1993
1424-IN)                 stabilize crop and forage, fuelwood and timber yields under rainfed
conditions.
4. National Agricultural  The first of a three-phase series of agricultural extension projects to provide    1984  Closed
Extension Project (Cr.   follow-up support to already participating states in strengthening the T&V      March 31,
1523-IN)                 system in the States of Madya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan and to further      1993
strengthen the GOI/DOE capacity
5. National Agricultural  The second of a three-phase series of agricultural extension projects to  1987  Closed
Extension Project II (Cr.    provide follow-up support to already participating states in strengthcning the  March 31,
1569-IN)                 T&V system in the States of Haryana, Gujarat and Karnakata and to establish     1993
the T&V system in Jammu and Kashmir.
6. National Agricultural  To intensify and continue the process initiated under the first NARP for the  1986  Closed June
Research Project 11 (Cr.    strengthening of the capability of SAUs to conduct location specific rescarch  30, 1996
1631-IN)                 in the main agro-ecological zones of India
7. Integrated Watershed    To slow and reverse degradation of the natural environment, through the  1990  Closed
Developmcnt (Hills)      use of appropriate soil and moisture conservation technology and by so          March 31,
Project (Cr. 2100-IN and    doing to improve production and income from grain crops, horticulture,       1999
Ln. 3175-IN)             fodder, livestock and forest products.
Following operations
1. Integrated Watershed  Follow-up project to restore the productive potential of the Shavalik Hills in    1999
Developmcnt (Hills 11)   an integrated approach based on vegetative technology and selected
Project                  mechanical measures
"A series of Social Forestry Projects were also supported by the Bank, the most recent of which at the time of project
formulation was the National Social Forestry Project (NSFP) (Cr. 161 1-IN).
Comment: The Bank attempted to take stock of the outcomes of the above projects through the Review of Rainfed
Agriculture and Watershed Development (Report 7138-IN, February 24,1988) and the Wasteland Development Review
(Report 6945-IN, January 14, 1988) and the NSFP Mid-Term Review (MTR) of October, 1988, prepared in conjunction
with USAID.
16



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned       1            Date actual!
latest estimate
Identification                                                        December 1987
Preparation                                November 1988              October/November 1988
Appraisal                                  July 1989                  16 October 1989
Negotiations                               February 1990              4 -11 April 1990
Board presentation                         April 1990                 15 May 1990
Signing                                                               22 August 1990
Effectiveness                              20 November 1990           28 February 1991
Mid-term review (if applicable)            30 September 1993          6 September 1994
Project completion                         31 March 1997              31 March 1998
Credit/Loan closing                        31 March 1998              31 March 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions) 1/
FY91      FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97        FY98       FY99
Appraisl            2.48        3.72     11.16      19.84      28.52      40.30     52.70       62.00
cstimatc 2/
Actual             3.07        3.36      6.69       12.34      18.48     27.25      42.79        50.82     57.74 3/
Actual as %  of    124           90      60            62         65       68        81          82         95.7
estimate
Date of final        31 July 1999
disbursement
"The project financing plan and the disbursement schedule in the SAR is given in US Dollars, not SDRs.
Based on IBRD loan of US$ 7 million and IDA Credit of SDR 42.6 million (equivalent to US$ 55 million)
3' Final total disbursement (by September 5, 1999) after extension of disbursement period after Credit closure
date (March 31, 1999). The remaining Credit of US$2.54 million has been cancelled. Appraisal estimate used an
exchange rate of SDR 1.0 = US$1.291 while actual estimates are based on historic exchange rates.
17



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation 1/
Key implementation indicators in   Unit   Pre-MTR    Pre-MTR   Post-MTR   Post-MTR         Total       Total     Percent
SAR/ President's Report              Target      Achieve-     Target     Achieve-     Project     Project    Complete
ment          g         ment       Target     Achieve-      (%/6)
ment
Gujarat
On-Farm Development
I. Vegetative Hedges           Ha         4054        4504       80550        93436       85054       97940        115
2. Crop Demos.                 Ha          1270        1270       14000        8270       15270         9540        62
3. Farm Forestry               Ha          1854        1854        7590        6093        9444         7947        84
4. Mixed Horticulture          Ha           440         440        870          1259       1310         1699       130
Off-Farm Development
I. Multi-tier Canopy           Ha          767          767       6785        19058        7551       19825       263
2. Silvi-Pasture               Ha          419          419       7933         5515        8352        5934         63
3. Seeded Pasture              Ha            0            0      12658          839       12658         839          7
4. Degraded Forest             Ha            0            0        923          193         923         193         21
Natural Drainage Lines
1. Areas under NDLs            Ha          652          652          0         2196         652        2848       437
2. Diversion channels          M          1864         1864       7708        73456        9572       75320        787
3. Vegetative Stabilization    M        109074       109074     172300      1058506      281374     1167580        415
4. Loose Stone check Dams      No.        3606         3606          0        37584        3606       41190       1142
5. Earthen Gully Plugs         No.         439          439       3338         5726        3777         6165       163
6. Masonry Structures          No.          29           29        255           117        284          146        51
7. Sunken Structures           No.          18           18       1134          278        1152          296        26
6. Filter Strips with Fruit Trees  M         0            0      15316             0      15316            0         0
Other
1. Soil Survey                 Ha        37079       37079           0         3027      37079        40106        108
2. Survey Planning             I-la      51312       51312            0      111029       51312      162311        316
3. Vegctative Peri Bund        M          1600        1600            0            0       1600        1600        100
4. Nursery                     No.          84          84            0          180         84         264        314
5. Village Pond                 No.           2           2        166            63         168          65        96
6. Filter Strips                No.           I           I          0             3           I           4       400
Orissa
On-Farm Development
1. Vegetative Hedges           Ha         2449        2989       23623        16590      26072        19579        75
2. Crop/Fodder Demos.          Ha          2445         763       19806       13934       22251        14697        66
3. Farm Forestry               Ha             0           0       15071        13391      15071        13391        89
4. Mixed Horticulture          Ha           424         529        7781        11327       8205        11856       144
Off-Farm Development
1. Multi-tier Canopy           Ha          1487        1324      10002        18307       11489       19631        171
2. Silvi-Pasture               Ha          309          205       1746         2555        2055        2760        134
3. Seeded Pasture              Ha            0            0       2235         1723        2335        1723         74
4. Degraded Forest             Ha         1484         1713      18105        25426       19589       27139        139
5. Stabilization of Shifting   Ha          286            0        1130         163        1416         163         12
Cultivation                           .                                                              _
Natural Drainage Lines
I. Brushwood/Veg.              M          5144       71783      300000      222097      305144       293880         96
Stabilization                   M3        18665        31712      170000      135762      188665      167474         89
2. Stone Check Dams            M         61600       120361      300000      355097      361600      475458        131
3. Diversion Channels          No.          66          126        1400        1203        1466        1329         91
4. Diversion Structures        No.          52           75         700         590         752         665         88
5. Earthen Run-off Structure         .
18



Key implementation indicators in   Unit   Pre-MTR    Pre-MTR   Post-MTR   Post-MTR         Total       Total     Percent
SAR/ President's Report              Target      Achieve-     Target     Achieve-     Project     Project    Complete
ment                    ment       Target     Achieve-      (%/6)
ment
Rainwater Management
1. Village Ponds/Tanks         No.                            -                  81                     81
2. Water Harvesting Structure  No.                      126                     222                     348
3. Dug well                    No.         -            -           -           143         -           143         -
Rajasthan
On-Farm Development
1. Vegetative I-ledges         Ha        4628         8164       43400       56322       48028       64486         134
2. Crop Demos.                 Ha        2832          3625       8000         922        10832        4547         42
3. Farm Forestry               Ha        1641          2752      11600       10015       13241        12767         96
4. Mixed Horticulture          Ha         204           604       2200        2591        2404         3195         133
Off-Farm Development
I. Multi-tier Canopy           Ha          40         1756       12787       18946       12827       20702         161
2. Silvi-Pasture               Ha        1940         5122       24237       21917       26177       27039          103
3. Reveg. of Saline/Alk. Soils    Ha       60          1039       8580        9290        8640        10329         120
4. Degraded Forest             Ha         150         1547        4100         389        4250         1936         46
5. Seeding of Pastures         Ha                        -        6000        7102        6000        7102         118
Natural Drainage Lines
I. Brushwood/Veg.              M        4691          4691      1550000
Stabilization                   M3       15000        72019       800000
2. Stone Check Dams            M           42            12           40
3. Minor Masonry Structures    No.          7            7           150
4. Medium Masonry Structures    No.         -            -           100
5. Earthen Run-off Structure   No.         19            0          210
6. Water Storage Structures
Rainwater Management
1. Village Ponds/Tanks         No.                                 160                     160
2. Tankl Renovation            No.                                  20                       20
3. Water Harvesting Structures   No.                                35          484          35          484
4. Recharge Structures         No.                                    -         1008          -         1008
5. Anicut                      No.                                   2          557           2          557
Animal Husbandry Activities
1. Est. of Gopal Units         No.        45             45         57           100       102           145       142
2. Est. of Anim. Health Ccntre    No.       8              8         4             4         12           12        100
3. Breed Improvement (Al)      No.          -          3700      10000        23717      10000         27417       274
4. Distrib. Of lmproved rams   No.                      450        600          1095        600         1545       258
5. Animals under Health Cover    No.                 811000     950000      3024000    950000        3835000        404
6. Fodder Demos.                No.                       -                                             9513
' Key indicators for project implementation were not set in SAR, but some of the more readily identifiable physical
targets are assessed.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)
19



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                         at appraisal/redefined                 Status      Impact of study
1. Project Impact     To (i) provide an overall assessment of the technical  Completed    Too [ate to have
Assessment Study in  results of the various soils and moisture conservation   in 1998   direct benefit to
Micro-watershed in   activities/interventions, (ii) evaluate the                       the project
Orissa State          appropriateness of methods employed in carrying out
the project activities, and (iii) estimate the medium
and long-term social and economic benefits of the
soil and moisture conservation activities.
2. Various other      Studies to review issues concerned with common
studies related to    property resource management (CPRM), land tenure,
project expansion     economic benefits and incentives of watershed
capability            treatments
Comment: Additional Project Impact Assessment Studies were conducted and completed in project areas in Gujarat and
Rajasthan States.
Table 8A: Project Costs i/
Appraisal estimate (US5M)             Actualllatcst estimate (USSM)
Item                         Local        Foreign       Total         Local        Foreign       Total
Costs        costs                      costs          costs
1. Watershed Dcv. Works        45.13        2.38        47.51         50.85           0.00       50.85
2. Technical Support             1.62       0.08          1.70         2.76           0.00         2.76
3. iProject Impi. Support       17.82       0.37         18.19        16.09           0.04        16.13
4. Training                      2.07       0.09          2.16         0.84           0.06         0.90
5. Technical Assistance          0.76        1.66         2.42         1.00           0.00         l.00
Baseline Costs                67.40        4.59        71.99         71.54          0.10        71.64
Physical Contingencies          9.0         0.6           9.6
Price Contingencies             9.4         0.9          10.3
TOTAL                          85.7        6.1          91.8          71.54          0.10        71.64
"Total project costs are according to the summary estimated project costs given in the SAR. However, aggregation of
the individual costs for the three states (as given in Annex 9 of the SAR) gives a total estimated project cost of US$
87.457 M, not US$ 91.8 M. Similarly, the equivalent summary total project cost in Rupee terms was estimated Rs
1,771.4 M, but aggregation of the costs by states gives an estimated value of Rs 1,686.58 M.
Comment: Actual total project cost in Rupee terms at Credit closure (as estimated on April 25, 1999) was Rs 2,492
million, 48% above the appraisal estimate, but in US Dollar terms the actual total project cost was 18% below thc
appraisal cost estimate. The weighted average exchange rate over the implementation period was Rs 34.79 to $US
i.00.
20



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            ActuaVlatest estimate (US$M)
Source                          Local       Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign       Total
costs       Costs                    costs         costs
IDA                               48.90         6.10       55.00       57.64        0.10        57.74
IBRD                               7.00         -           7.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
GOI & Participating States        24.10         -          24.10        13.90 "     0.00        13.90
Beneficiaries                      5.70         -           5.70
TOTAL                             85.70         6.10       91.80       71.54        0.10        71.64
1/ Actual project expenditures assigned to GOi and participating States includes expenditures by beneficiaries, as the States were
unable to separate the expenditures by beneficiaries from State expenditures.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
States                   Economic Rates of
Return_(%)
Gujarat                           16
Orissa                            1 8
Rajasthan                         I I
Overall                           14
Note:   Details of benefits and financial and economic analyses and assumptions used are given
in Appendix B of the ICR
21



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants of Agreements
India
Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project
Original   Revised
Coven  Present  fulfilment  fulfilment                 Description of
Agreement   Section    -ant   Status      date       date                       covenant                          Comments
type
GU]      3.01 (b, i)   PA     C                           GOG shall have the Tecords and accounts for each FY   In compliance
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and the Bank
GUR      3.01 (b, ii)   PA     C                          GOG to furnish, not later than nine months aftcr the end  In compliance
of each audited year, certified copies of its records and
accounts of such audit and in such detail as requested
GUJ      4.01 (c, i)  DCA     C                           GOG to maintain records and accounts for all    In compliance
expenditure regarding withdrawals from Credit made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure
GU]       SCiH. I     PA      C                           GOG to maintain a State level Policy Steering    In compliance
Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief
Secretary or the Agricultural Secretary
GUJ       SCI-h. 2    I'A     C                           GOG shall establish and maintain a multi-disciplinary   In compliance
task force for watershed treatment and management
plans wsith qualified staff for management and operation
of respective watershed
GUJ       SCI 1. 3    i'A     C                           GOG to carry out impact evaluation studies on project  In compliance
beneit and sustainability assessment on different land
uses and production systems
GUI       SCi 1. 4    I'A     C                           GOG not to carry out, without prior approval, treatment In compliance
works for natural drainage lines and gullies costing more
than 25% of estimated cost
GUI       SCI 1. 8a    PA     C                           GOG to establish a Watershed Planning and Co-   In complianee
ordination Organization (WPCO), with a Planning Ceil,
a Management Ceil and qualified staff for the same
GUJ       SCI 1. gb    PA     C                           Such WPCO, as mentioned above, shall be established in In compliance
tie Soil Conservation Department
ORI      3.01 (b, i)   PA     C                          GOO shall have the records and accounts for each FY   In compliance
audited by indepcndent auditors acceptabie to the
Association and the Bank
ORI      3.01 (b, ii)   PA    C                          GOO to fumish, not later than nine months after the end  In compliance
of each audited year, certified copies of its records and
accounts of such audit and in such detail as requested
ORI      4.01 (c, i)   DCA    C                           GOO to maintain records and accounts for all    In compliance
expenditure regarding withdrawals from Credit made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure
ORI       SCFI. I    PA       C                           GOO to maintain a State level Policy Steering    In compliance
Committec under the chairmanship of the Chief
Secretary or the Agricultural Secretary
ORI       SCI I. 2   PA       C                           GOO shall establish and maintain a multi-disciplinary   In compliance
task foree for watershed treatment and management
plans with qualified staff for management and operation
of respective watershed
ORI       SCI 1. 3   PA       C                           GOO to carry out impact evaluation studies on project   After delay, in
benefit and sustainability assessment on different land   compliance
uses and production systems
ORI       SCI 1. 4   I'A      C                           GOO not to carry out, without prior approval, treatment In compliance
works for natural drainage lines and gullies costing more
than 25% of estimated cost
22



Original   Revised
Coven  Prasent  fulfilment  fulfilmint                   Description of
Agreement   Section    -ant   Status        date       date                        covenant                          Comments
type
ORI       SCI 1. 8a    PA      C                           GOO to establish a Watershed Planning and Co-     In compliance
-              ~~~~~ordination Orgimnization (WPCO), with a Planning Ccll.
a Management Cell and quatified staff for the same
ORI       SCIHi. 8b    PA      C                           Such WPCO, as mantioned abovc, shall be established in In compliance
l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the Soil Conservation Depar-tmentl
RAJ      3.01 (b, i)   I'A     C                            GOR shall have the records and accounts for each FY    In compliance
exaudited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
t Association and the Bant o
RAJ      3.01 (b, ii)   PA     C                            GOR to fumish, not later than nine  months after the end  In compliance
of each audited year, certiraed copies of its records and
accounts of such audit and in such detail as requested
RAJ      4.01 (c, i)   DCA     C                            GOR to  esaintain records and accounts a or all   In compliance
expenditure regalding sithdraa als from Credit made on
the basis of Statemenrs of Expenditure
RAJ       SCH  I      I'A      C                            GOR to caintain a state level Policy Steering     In comppieiace 
Committee under taie chairmanship of the Chief l
{1                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary or the Agricultural Secretaryl
RAJ       SCI. 2      PA       C                            GOR shall establish and maintain a  multi-disciplinary   In compliance
l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~task- force for watershed treatnment and managementl
plans with qualifed staff lir management and operation m
taof respeetive watershed
RAJ       SCIi. 3     PA       C                           GOR to esary out impact evaluation studies on projIct  Aner delay, in
obenfit and sustainability asscssmwnt on difPerant land eompliance
uses and production systems
RAJ       SCi tI. 4   I'A      C                           GOR  not to casry out, without prior approval, bee atment In compliance
:                                                   tworks for natural drainage lincs and gullies costing more
C                                       t       than 25% of cstimated cost
RAJ       SCI 1. 8a O  A       C                           GOR to establish a WatCrshed Planning and Co-      In compliance
l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ordination Organi2aion (WPCO). with a Planning Ceil,
a Managcnicnt Cei and qualified staff for the same
I RAJ       SCI 1. 8b   PA       C                            Such WPCO, as mentioned abovc, shall bc establishcd in In complianee
{                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the Soil Conscrvation Departmcnt
Status:        C             Complied with covcnant
CD            Compliance afler dclay
tiC           Not complied with covcnant
'.-OON        Compliancc expected in reasnably short time
CP            Complied with partially
NYD           Not yet due
Covenant Class:    I         Accounts/audit
2        Financial performancc/gencratc revenue from beneficiaries
3         Flow and utilization of Project funds
4         Counterpart funding
5        Managemcnt aspects of Projcct or of its cxecuting agency
6        Environmental covcnants
7         Involuntary rcsettlement
8        Indigenous pcople
9         Monitoring, review and reporting
10       Implementation
11       Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other rcsource allocation
12       Scctoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13       Other
23



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. Disbursement suspended 1996-97 for Gujarat and    Delay in submission of audit certificate.
Orissa States
2. SOE procedure suspended 1997-98 for Gujarat and   Delay in submission of audit certificate. Besides delay
Orissa States                                     in audit certificate, there were problems in timely
release of funds twice in Orissa State, which was
restored after pursuance with the Government of Orissa.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                         Planned                   Revised                  Actual
project cycle
Weeks       US$'000        Weeks      US$'000      Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to              n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        n.a.       188.3      265.8
appraisal
Appraisal                   n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        54.1       101.0
Negotiations through        n.a.          n.a.          n.a.       n.a.          3.3        6.8
Board approval
Supervision                 n.a.         n.a.                                 234.4      262.8
Completion                 17           69.5          24          57.6
TOTAL
Comments:
1. Data obtained from World Bank Cost Accounting System. Staff weeks given includes all associated staff inputs
(in Bank as well as field) into project as at 22 April 1999.
2. Planned and revised staff weeks and costs only available from FY 1998 and therefore cannot be provided for
earlier stages of project cycle.
24



Table 13: Bank Resources: Field Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                      Number                      Specialized      Implement-      Develop-
project cycle       Monthy         of         Days in       staff skills       ation           ment         Types of
year       persons       Field       rcpresented        status 2      objectives     problems 1
Through appraisal                                              n.a.                  n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Appraisal through                                              n.a.                  n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Board approval
Supervision            Mar./Apr.        4            25        AG. SC/EX,             2              2             T, F
1991                                   FO,IS
Nov./Dec.       4            49        AG, SC/EX, F,          2               2            T, M
1991                                   S
Aug./Sept.      3            40        AG, SCIEX, F           2              2             T, M
1992
Mar./Apr.       2            34        AG, SC/EX              2              2               T
1993
May/June        3            14        AG, M&E (2)
1993
May/June        2            22        GIS (2)
1993
Oct./Dec.       3            35        AG, SC/EX, F           2               2            T, M
1993
April/Junc      3            30        AG, SC/EX, F           S               S              M
1994
MariApr.        2            36        SC/EX. R               S               S            T, M
1995
Dcc.1995/       2            19        R, SCIEX               S               S            T, M
Apr. 1996
Scpt./Dcc.      3            30        R, SC/EX, S            S               S            T, M
1996
Scpt./Nov.      2            18        R, F                   S               S              M
1997
AugJOct         6            35        R, AG (2), S           S               S
1998                                  (2), M
Mid-Term Revicw41      ScptiOct.        3            90        AG, SC/EX, F
1994
Compiction             April/May        3            60        AG,E, R
1999
' AG = Agriculture; R = Rescarch; SC   Soil Conservation; EX   Extension; IS  Institutions Specialist; F = Forestry;
S = Sociology; GIS = Geographic Information Systcms; M&E   Monitoring & Evaluation: M = Management; EC = Economics
2/ Summary objective ratings: I (HS) - highly satisfactory; 2 (S) - satisfactory; 3 (U) - unsatisfactory; 4 (HU) - highly
unsatisfactory
3/ T = Technical; F = Financial; M = Managerial/Institutional
4/ Three additional representativcs of GOI also participated in the Mid-Tcrm Review.
25






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX A: MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
27






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Cr.2131-IN/Ln.3197-IN)
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP Missionl/ visited India from 26 April to
14 May 1999 to meet with officials of the State Governments of Gujarat (GOG), Orissa (GOO) and
Rajasthan (GOR), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of the Government of India (GOI) and World
Bank (WB) resident mission in India concerned with the implementation of the above project and to
obtain relevant information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
this project. Field visits were made to project areas in the states of Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan to
meet with project staff and local farmers and inspect activities undertaken during the project.
Representatives from the MOA and the World Bank participated in the field visits.
2.        The mission wishes to thank all project staff and concerned government officials for
giving generously of their time, information and assistance with the meetings, field visits and
preparation of the ICR for this project. The preliminary findings and views presented in this draft
aide-memoire reflect those of the mission, based on discussions with project staff and farmers in
project areas visited and from prior consultation of project documents at the World Bank. The aide-
memoire has been amended to take into account points raised in a final wrap-up meeting, chaired by
the Joint Secretary of Agriculture of GOI, on May 13, 1999.
B. BACKGROUND
3.        The Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project (IWDPP) was implemented
from 1990 to 1999 (seven-year project with one-year extension). The IWDPP was designed to
stabilise selected watersheds in the three participating states through a menu of land treatments,
emphasising soil and moisture conservation and by introducing more sustainable land management
systems, including seeking long-term, community-based, management solutions for public non-
arable lands. This was to be brought about through the establishment of vegetative contour barriers
and demonstrations of associated production systems, such as agro-forestry, alley cropping and
dryland horticulture on arable, private land; together with land treatments such as vegetative soil and
moisture conservation measures, afforestation, silvipasture development on non-arable public lands;
and structural and vegetative treatments for stabilisation of natural drainage lines both on arable and
non-arable land; and establishment of plant nurseries.
1 D.A.Ivory (Mission Leader), K Mei (Economist) and H. C. Sharma (Watershed Specialist, Consultant)
29



C. THE PROJECT
4.        The main project objectives were:
*   Restoration of ecological balance and promotion of sustainable and replicable
production systems
*   Establishment of effective arrangements for inter-agency co-ordination in watershed
planning and implementation
*   Establishment of sustainable system of peoples' management of assets created on
community land
*   Increased production through low cost vegetative and moisture management measures
*   Promotion of measures for income generation of rural poor
5.        The project was designed for a three-year pilot phase followed by a four-year expansion
phase following a Mid-term Review (MTR). The MTR was held in September 1994, to monitor
progress of the project, provide for mid-course corrections and plan and recommend the
implementation modalities and financing of the expansion phase.
D. MISSION FINDINGS
Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.        The project was approved in August 1990, became effective in February 1991 and was
originally scheduled to be completed by March 31, 1998, but was given a one-year extension (to
March 31, 1999) to improve the sustainability of project assets through strengthening community
based organisations.
Project Concept, Design and Scope
7.        Project concept. A holistic approach to management and use of natural plant, land and
water resources for agricultural and forest production within naturally defined watershed boundaries
was an evolving concept in India in the 1980s. Such a developmental approach is complex and at that
time state governments and their staff were only at early stages of acceptance and adoption of the
concept. Moreover, while the knowledge and experience in implementation of such a strategic
approach by government staff was generally limited, such an approach was beyond the experience
and understanding of local communities. The project therefore placed emphasis on governmental
planning and capacity building, particularly the establishment of geographic information systems
(GISs) and strong community participation in determining an action plan for sequential introduction
of project interventions in watershed areas at project inception. Watershed development also depends
most critically on achieving a blend of macro-level activities to protect and enhance the natural plant,
soil and water resources and a range of desirable activities that transparently provide short-, medium-
and long-term benefits to the rural communities. However, watershed development planning at
government level at the beginning of the project was only weakly combined with participatory
consultation with local communities.
8.        Project design. The main project component was concerned with watershed
development works. This was to be supported by three other components: technical support; project
30



implementation support; and training and technical assistance. Many individual activities were
undertaken in watershed development concerned with: on-farm development (vegetative hedges,
alley cropping, crop demonstrations and mixed horticulture); off-farm development (multi-tiered
trees, rehabilitation of degraded forest, silvi-pasture, pasture seeding and revegetation of
saline/alkaline lands); stabilisation of natural drainage lines (brushwood/ vegetative stabilisation,
minor masonry structures, stone check dams, earthen run-off management structures, medium
masonry structures and water storage structures); and rainwater management measures (renovated
and new village ponds/tanks, water harvesting structures, recharge structures and anicuts). Most of
these activities were common to all three states. Animal husbandry activities to improve animal
health and genetic potential, as well as a number of special funded activities concerned with
installation/construction of hand pumps, local roads, seed bins, solar coolers and training facilities,
were financed by the project and beneficiaries.
9.        Project scope. Each state implemented the project in four watersheds, giving a total of
twelve with a total gross area of 433,498 ha. In the initial phase four pilot areas in each state, with
total gross area of 37,130 ha, were selected within larger watersheds, in which project activities were
executed from 1990-91 to 1993-94. In the post-MTR expansion phase, activities were executed in
pilot areas and in an additional gross area of 396,368 ha.
Project Costs and Financing
10.       Project costs. Total project cost at April 1999 is estimated at Rs2,492 million (US$71.64
million)l, which is 48% above the original estimated project cost of Rsl,687 million (US$87.46
million), due to (i) price escalation during project implementation and (ii) increased physical
achievement, but is 18% below the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms. Project costs by
participating states are shown below.
Project Cost
SAR                 ICR               Change %o
Rs. M    US$ M      Rs. M   US$ M 1/    Rs. M    US$ M
A. Gujarat         457     23.70        669     19.43       46%      -18%
B. Onssa           505    26.19         680     18.59       35%     -29%
C. Rajasthan       725     37.57       1143     33.62       58%     -11%
Total          1,687     87.46      2,492    71.64        48%     -18%
1/ calculated year-by-year based on average exchange rates.
11.       Project financing. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR42.6 million (US$55.0 million),
SDR40.18 million (US$56.96 million) had been reimbursed to the Government of India (GOI) at
April 1, 1999. With the depreciation of the US$ against SDR, the grant amount is now re-estimated at
US$60.24 million. The IBRD Loan of US$7.0 million was cancelled during the pilot phase (in
December 1991). The undisbursed Credit at March 31, 1999 was US$3.28 million, which is expected
to be nearly fully disbursed (98%) by July 31, 1999, following processing of outstanding claims for
expenditure incurred prior to Credit closure.
The total estimated project cost is less than indicated in the summary total project cost in the SAR due to some
error in calculation of the total project cost in the SAR.
31



12.       Credit management. Budgetary support during the first two years of the project was
unsatisfactory, particularly in Gujarat and Orissa, but later improved. Cumulative expenditure lagged
against appraisal estimates in all states. Out of the total project cost Rs2,492 million, Rsl,934.7
million has been reimbursed and Rs92.5 million is presently claimed for reimbursement. The
outstanding amount for reimbursement is particularly large for Orissa, at Rs67 million. Thus the
Credit is expected to finance 81% of total project cost compared with an expected 55% IDA
financing. The GOI and participating states were expected to finance 24.1% of project costs, but
financed much less.
Disbursement
Project                  Disbursement
Cost     Disbursed To be disbursed    Total    % WB
_ __    _ __---Rs M---------
A. Gujarat          669       509.6            11.9     522      78%
B. Orissa           680       503.8           67.2     571       84%
C. Rajasthan       1143       921.3           13.3      935      82%
Total           2,492     1,934.7           92.5   2,027       81%
13.       Beneficiary cost sharing. In the pilot phase, beneficiaries shared the cost to the extent of
25-40% in horticulture and 10% on the establishment of vegetative barriers. In the expansion phase,
cost-sharing in the form of labour and materials was increased up to 40% on private arable and 30%
on non-arable land and 15% on community non-arable lands. Beneficiary cost sharing was expected
to be 5.7%, but is anticipated to be larger than planned.
Watershed Development Works
14.       On-farm development. Vetiver grass, used for vegetative bunding / hedge had shown
good performance in Orissa State, whereas in Rajasthan and Gujarat states, due to low rainfall it did
not perform well. After the MTR, local grasses (Saccharum munja, Cenchrus sp. and Dicanthium sp.)
were tried and did relatively better than vetiver grass. However, vegetative hedges were not found to
be very effective in IWDPP areas in Rajasthan and Gujarat states. In most instances, crop
demonstrations were confined to the introduction of demonstration kits of new crop varieties which
resulted in 10-30 per cent increase in yield of paddy in Orissa, and in pearl millet, maize and
mungbean in Rajasthan and in Gujarat. A significant impact of dry land horticulture was visible only
in Orissa and survival percentage of fruit plants was good (>60% at most of the places). By contrast,
in Rajasthan and in Gujarat, dry land horticulture did not do well but with the agreed introduction of
additional protective irrigation, following the MTR, the performance was good to very good. Again
the farm forestry activity performance in Orissa was better than in Gujarat and in Rajasthan.
15.       Development of community lands. Amongst different activities undertaken on non-
arable land, the survival percentage of tree and grasses was highest in Orissa followed by Rajasthan
and Gujarat. Performance of multi-tier canopy (MTC) system was found to be good to very good in
Orissa and moderately good to good in Rajasthan and Gujarat. Amongst silvipasture and pasture
components of the project activities, the former did better than the latter, possibly due to high animal
pressure and non-adoption of cut and carry or rotational grazing system. Farmers' preference was
also more in favour of silvipasture than overseeding of pasture or even multi-tier trees because they
received earlier benefits. However, at most places in Rajasthan and in Gujarat, the preferred tree
32



species in silvipasture has been Acacia species. It would have been better to have included some
better tree species such as Dalbergia sisoo and Neem (Azaderecta indica), etc., that are naturalized
plants of the local areas. Participation by beneficiaries was improved in the forestry model with the
introduction of grass and legume seeding.
16.       Protection of natural drainage lines. There has been variation in the degree of success
of different activities in different states and within states in the protection of natural drainage lines in
different micro-watersheds. Overall, however, there is a visible impact of IWDPP activities in terms
of reduction in soil and water erosion and restoration of natural flora and fauna.
17.       Rainwater management. Quality of water structures is rated to be very good in Orissa,
good in Rajasthan and satisfactory in Gujarat. Water harvesting structures in Gujarat were
substantially improved by technical assistancel. With the construction of diversion and water-
holding structures the arable land has benefited due to recharge of groundwater, resulting in increased
yield of water from existing wells and from newly constructed wells. There was visible impact of this
activity in the surrounding areas of such structures in terms of increase in irrigated area and crop
diversification (inclusion of high value horticulture and fodder crops).
18.       Specific activities from reserve fund. A fund was provided in the project for activities
that could not be foreseen during project preparation, but which could contribute to the project
objectives by use of cost effective and replicable technologies. Advantage was not taken of this fund
during the pilot phase. However, in the expansion phase this fund was used to provide hand pumps,
cattle troughs, recharge structures and ponds, roads and culverts, storage bins (grass seeds),
agricultural implements, fuel efficiency devices and bio-fertilizers.
Project Implementation Support
19.       Geographic Information Systems (GIS). A prototype GIS was to be implemented in all
states to support long range planning and management activities at the watershed level. The GIS was
to be used for two major tasks:
* prioritisation of macro-watershed development areas in those districts having scope for
watershed development using remote sensing and GIS techniques, and
* creation of a detailed Watershed Management Information System (WMIS) to support
cartographic, statistical and progress reporting needs of the project.
20.       In Rajasthan State, good progress has been made in developing a GIS. Initially this was
undertaken by the State Remote Sensing Application Centre, of the Department of Science and
Technology to prioritise macro-watershed development areas and needs. Subsequently, the
Department of Watershed Management and Soil Conservation undertook the creation of a detailed
WMIS. Plans have not been made for every micro-watershed because of limitations of staff, funds
and equipment. It is suggested that their aims were over-ambitious and it would have been more
profitable to concentrate on developing plans for macro- rather than micro-watersheds.
Dr. Grewal from the Regional Training Centre, Ballowal, Punjab on pursuance of the Bank.
33



21.       In other states, very little progress was made on the development of a GIS. In Orissa
State, only preliminary and limited micro-watershed plans have been made from the GIS. In Gujarat
State, only the GIS software systems have been installed. Overall, training has been insufficient and
support that was badly needed to make the GISs operational has not been provided by scheduled
external technical assistance.               -
22.        Soil Survey. In Rajasthan, semi-detailed soil surveys were undertaken for the entire
expansion area by the Soil Survey Organisation (Agricultural Department) during the first two years
of the project to prepare 1:25,000 soil type and land capability maps of project expansion areas,
evaluate land capability status of areas and demarcate saline/alkaline areas within watersheds. In
Gujarat, the project also provided financial, technical and staff resources to conduct required physical
surveys and inforrnation system development for the expansion areas of the project. In Orissa, soil
and land use surveys had been undertaken prior to project preparation.
23.        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The provision for M&E under the project was
perceived as consisting of three distinct, but inter-related modules to reflect the different purposes,
contents, methods, organisational and staff skill requirements. These modules were to be: (i) progress
reporting; (ii) result assessment; and (iii) impact evaluation. The M&E units have produced a range
of reports of a more general as well as detailed nature and some field surveys and assessments have
been conducted on various aspects of effects of watershed treatments on water and soil erosion (water
runoff and silt loads in streams) as well as vegetative treatments on agricultural production. Because
the M&E units were concerned with the first two modules, more emphasis has been given to
monitoring physical and financial targets with rather less emphasis given to evaluation. Surprisingly,
a project Impact Assessment Study was only scheduled for Orissa State in the SAR. However, it was
agreed during project implementation that project impact assessments would be undertaken in all
states. These assessments were contracted to and conducted by an agency external to the project
implementation units in all statesl. These assessments have included baseline surveys, on-going
analysis and final impact assessment. While these impact assessments are qualitatively very thorough
and provide useful information for the ICR, their value to economic assessment of the overall project
is mixed because quantitative assessments of impacts on agricultural production are limited or are
narrowly based.
24.        Non-government organisations (NGOs) and user groups. The project sought to utilize
NGOs to develop community awareness, ensure community involvement and create local
organisations for future management of their local natural resources as an essential part of the
watershed development concept. Varied experiences were obtained with NGO involvement in the
three states. NGO involvement was most comprehensive in Orissa (covered 264 villages), moderate
in Gujarat (covered 110 villages) and non-existent in Rajasthan. In all cases, however, NGO
involvement in the project was delayed by at least two years. Local NGOs were also not conversant
with the watershed development concept and wanted more financial and activity independence.
(i) Final Impact Evaluation Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project in Gujarat, 1998, Agricultural
Finance Corporation Ltd.
(ii) Impact Evaluation Study of Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project Orissa Component,
December 1998, Agricultural and Rural Development Consultancy Society, Orissa.
(iii) Draft Impact Evaluation Report, March 1999, College of Technology and Agricultural Engineering,
Rajasthan Agricultural University.
34



However, it was found that NGOs made a positive contribution to community development and
involvement in the project.
25.       In all the three states "Users Associations/Committees" have been constituted in many
villages for the management and maintenance of assets created under the project. Great enthusiasm
has been generated amongst the members of many of these associations, particularly in Rajasthan and
in Gujarat, and they have started collection of some funds from the beneficiaries for sustaining
activities on Government/Panchayat land and for maintenance of water structures. The total number
of user groups established reached a total of 1,627 (164 in Gujarat, 1,026 in Orissa and 437 in
Rajasthan) by the end of 1998 in project areas. However, only about 50% are working effectively,
despite the efforts of the government and NGOs to improve their functioning. Another 25% of user
groups could be effective if continuous support and guidance is provided.
Technical Support
26.        Adaptive research. Institutional responsibility for conducting production oriented
research at state level rests with the zonal research stations under the state agricultural universities.
These and their associated research stations were already funded under the National Agricultural
Research Project. Supplementary support under this project was therefore confined to operational
research funding and restricted to priority research topics not adequately addressed in zonal research
programmes, viz. (i) identification and evaluation of various plant species (grasses and shrubs)
suitable for effective vegetative soil and moisture practices, (ii) identification of suitable species for
agro-forestry, fodder and silvi-pasture development, (iii) development of optimal, location specific
land use systems suitable for the project zones, and (iv) impact evaluation of technologies introduced
for soil and moisture conservation. This research did not include more basic studies to understand the
hydrological cycle and evaluate the efficacy of improved soil and water conservation on soil fertility
and soil water and groundwater supply and value of additional captured water for irrigation purposes.
The inclusion of such studies would have been very valuable in the design and locational placement
of vegetative and physical soil and water conservation structures.
27.        Nurseries. Project funds were provided for establishment of nurseries to supply planting
materials for vegetative soil and moisture conservation, silvi-pasture, horticulture and forestry
activities. The project established some 264, 123 and 1,600 nurseries in Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan
states, respectively. An important feature in Rajasthan State was that local farmers created "Kishan
nurseries", under government guidance, to produce tree seedlings on a cost basis for forestry
establishment. Local farmers in many areas have developed the skills to produce seedling materials,
which should result in the establishment of private nurseries beyond project closure.
Training and Technical Assistance
28.        Training. Funds for training were provided to develop knowledge and skills of project
staff in watershed development and consultative planning, GIS, specialised technologies, institution-
building skills and M&E. Training was also to be provided for NGO staff and technical and local
institution-building skills for farmers. Some unique initiatives were taken under the project to
facilitate inter-state sharing of experiences, such as organizing workshops and meetings of project
staff to discuss implementation strategies to improve sustainability and replicability of project
35



activities. Furthermore, project directors participated in Bank project supervision missions to other
states (financed from state training budgets). Many short training courses were conducted for village
committee members/farmers of villages as well as short study tours to other project areas and to
relevant research centres and institutions.
29.        Technical assistance. Funds were provided for external technical assistance to meet
inadequacies in local technical knowledge and expertise in land use planning/GIS development,
adaptive research, local institution building and consultative planning. The component was also
designed to cover the cost of special studies and the GIS hardware/software needed for land use
planning. These funds were greatly under-utilised in all states, even though it is apparent that great
benefit would have been derived from external assistance in GIS development, land use and
consultative project planning, particularly in the very early stages of project implementation.
Project Benefits
30.        The direct beneficiaries of the project are the rural poor, marginal, small (about 75% of
total) and large farmers (10-15%), landless and members of tribal groups amounting to a total of
about 100,000 rural families. The benefits of the project can be broadly classified into four
categories: (i) on-farm benefits; (ii) off-farm benefits; (iii) environmental and natural resources
benefits; and (iv) other benefits. On-farm benefits include increase in production of rainfed crops,
irrigated crops, horticulture, farm forestry, and animal husbandry products. Off-farm benefits include
timber, fuelwood, and fodder. Environmental and natural resources benefits comprise reduction in
loss of agricultural land from erosion, reduction in water run-off, reduction of soil loss, improvement
in soil fertility and rise of ground water table. Other benefits include employment generation,
increased family income from increased sale of agricultural products, reduction of migration towards
cities, labour saving for women due to increased availability of water for both human and animals,
and benefits outside the project area, such as lesser incidence and severity of flooding. Although
these benefits can be confirmed through project literature, field visits, and discussions with project
staff and beneficiaries, quantification of these benefits is extremely difficult mainly due to: (i) many
project activities spread over the three states; and (ii) by nature, the very slow impact of benefits from
watershed development.
Project Sustainability
31.        A very important initiative to achieve physical sustainability of the assets created under
the project has been the completion of memoranda of understanding (MOUs) between the
Government and the community user groups. The MOUs seek to establish a long-term understanding
with the user groups in each community to ensure sustainability of drainage line works, afforestation,
silvi-pasture and multi-tier tree developments and to hand over the assets to them. In addition, the
project units have handed over governmental responsibility for overseeing the maintenance of these
assets to the respective line agencies. The enthusiasm shown by communities for the project should
ensure that they would maintain and improve assets and further replicate these developmental
activities on other private and community lands.
36



Bank and Borrower Performance
32.       Bank performance. The Bank undertook eleven supervisory missions, two specific
missions concerned with monitoring and evaluation and geographic information systems (GIS)
development and a mid-term review during project implementation, involving some 234 staff weeks.
This represents a moderately high level of supervision but is a consequence of the extremely complex
nature of the project. Supervisory mission reports indicated that the missions undertook regular
detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project and while indicating deficiencies in
implementation gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such problems. With very few
exceptions, supervision missions were staffed from the WB resident mission in India and local
consultants. This has provided more continuous contact and assistance in implementation. The WB
also exhibited commendable flexibility in agreeing to extend investments into additional areas and
reallocate funds into more important activities following the MTR. There has been universal
appreciation by the project staff in the states of the assistance given by the Bank in the
implementation of this project.
33.       Borrower performance. The project implementation units in each state have
satisfactorily implemented the project. All states have mostly achieved or even exceeded the
implementation targets in the watershed development works and the quality of establishment and
construction has been generally good. While the states all encountered implementation problems
causing delays in execution, disbursement and in establishing a sustainable management system on
non-arable areas in the pilot phase, these problems were resolved during the expansion phase. While
the states have tended to be too targeted oriented in their approach to project implementation, they
also have shown a commendable level of flexibility in refinement of certain interventions.
Future Operational Plans
34.       Each state has prepared an implementation completion report. The states have indicated
that their immediate post-project plans are to complete the official handing over of assets on
communal (Panchayat) lands to local communities, to further assist communities with the
maintenance and utilisation of assets through the involvement of other line agencies and to
incorporate beneficial project experiences in other watershed development projects. Some states also
plan to seek further funding for new watershed projects. Given that the outcome of the impact
assessments conducted in each state were considered more qualitative rather than quantitative, the
GOI suggested that GOI funds be used to undertake an independent impact assessment of the project
as background information for new project proposals in India.
Lessons Learned
35.       There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of this
project, including:
a) Participatory planning. Whilst the initial level of macro-level watershed planning undertaken to
define project interventions and locations was variable between states, all have emphasized the
essential need to assign sufficient time in the beginning of projects to this vital activity and to fully
involve the communities in defining their needs and involvement.
37



b) Community benefits. The success of a project concerned with watershed management is greatly
dependent on beneficiary participation and their maintenance of assets created. This in turn is very
dependent on ensuring that project design includes activities concerned with awareness building and
training of communities, creating community credit schemes and providing interventions which
provide short-, medium- and long-term benefits to individual farmers and communities.
c) Research support. Technical support for the project was too narrowly based to adaptive agricultural
research. A form of contract research would have been preferable where the project contracts
research organisations to undertake specific research, some of which may be quite basic in order to
gain insight into efficacy of project interventions and designs on the protection and improvement of
natural resources (plant, water and soil).
d) Women in development. The project gave little direct emphasis to women's' needs and aspirations.
Given cultural limitations, community-building and training activities should have focused on
formation of specific women user groups, technical training for women and training on other village-
based income generating activities for women.
e) Management of natural resources. Despite project interventions, natural resources in the upper
watersheds in all states are under considerable stress from overgrazing. Emphasis should have been
given to policy and action plans to restrict livestock numbers, combined with more active
programmes to exclude grazing and rehabilitate forest areas.
f) Inter-agency collaboration. Although line departments seconded staff to the project, their role was
mainly linked to inter-agency co-ordination. Specific funds should have been provided for line
agencies to undertake supporting follow-up work to reinforce the benefits generated by project
interventions, such as follow-up programmes to intensify crop, livestock and forest production.
g) Non-government organisations (NGOs). A novel feature of the project was the involvement of
local people at every stage of implementation. Although the efficacy of NGOs used varied both
within and between states, in principle it is agreed that they have an important role to develop
community awareness, ensure community involvement and create local organisation for future
management of their local natural resources and should be involved in similar projects where
community participation is essential. The success of constituted user groups in Rajasthan, without
NGO involvement, also emphasises the importance of local village organisations in watershed
development.
E. FOLLOW-UP
36.       The mission will complete the preparation of the draft ICR for this project for submission
to World Bank by mid-June 1999. The mission Aide-Memoire, with any amendments required, will
be attached to this document.
38



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX B: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
39






TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. INTRODUCTION ......................................... 43
B. PROJECT BENEFITS & ASSUMPTIONS ......................................... 44
BENEFITED AREAS .........................................                                                           44
ON-FARM BENEFITS ......................................... 45
Rainfed Crops .......................................... 45
Irrigated Crops .......................................... 45
Horticulture ............................  .............   46
Farm Forestry .......................................... 46
OFF-FARM BENEFITS .........................................                                                         46
ENVIRONMENTAL AND NATURAL  RESOURCES BENEFITS ......................................... 46
OTHER BENEFITS ......................................... 47
C. PROJECT ANALYSIS .........................................                                                          47
PRICES .......................................... 47
IMPACT ON FARM INCOME .........................................                                                     48
PRODUCTION ..........................................48
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .........................................                                                         49
Economic Benefits ..........................................                                                     49
EEconomic Costs .......................................... 49
Economic Rates of Return ........................................... 49
Sensitivity Analysis ........................................... 50
Risks .5...........................................
LESSONS LEARNED .........................................                                                           51
TABLES
1.            Benefited Area under Various Activities
2.            Impact on Crop Yields
3.            Yield Estimates per year of Off-farm  Production
4.            Financial Farm-gate Prices of Outputs and Inputs
5.            Derivation of Parity Prices of Outputs and Inputs
6.            Per hectare Economic Costs and Incomes
7.            Actual Project Costs by Year
8.            Exchange Rates and Price Indexes
9.            Estimation of the ERR - Gujarat
10.           Estimation of the ERR - Orissa
11.           Estimation of the ERR - Rajasthan
12.           Estimation of the ERR - Whole Project
41






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Cr.2131 -IN/Ln.31 97-IN)
APPENDIX B
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        The project, with its initial cost of US$91.8 million was appraised in 1990 and covers
three states in India: Gujarat, Orissa, and Rajasthan. The project aimed primarily to slow down and
possibly reverse ecological degradation in a variety of agro-ecological zones in the selected states by
promoting a sustainable and replicable use of natural resources and agricultural production systems.
The project was supported by an IBRD loan of US$7.0 million and an IDA credit of SDR42.6 million
(US$55.0 million). At appraisal, the overall ERR for the project was then estimated at 17.7%.
2.        Information and data used in this analysis are derived mainly from the following sources:
(a) World Bank documents and materials and in particular the supervision reports; (b) reports and
materials prepared and provided by the project offices in three participating states; (c) evaluation
reports and studies prepared by various external agencies; and (d) data collected by the mission
during field visits and discussions with beneficiaries and project staff.
3.        The economic analysis of project impact is constrained by the fact that: (a) the project
covers a wide range of activities and it is difficult to separate the impact of these activities from other
exogenous factors; (b) it covers a large, scattered area in the three states with great variations in agro-
climatic conditions; and (c) by its nature, the impact of a watershed development project necessarily
occurs very slowly over a long period of time. In addition to these factors, appropriate data were not
readily available for detailed economic analysis due to the project monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system placing too much emphasis on target achievement with less emphasis on impact evaluation.
Acknowledging this shortfall, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of the Government of India (GOI)
has proposed to fund a further study to thoroughly evaluate the impact of this project, with emphasis
given to the quantification of benefits.
4.        Despite the above mentioned constraints, the ERRs are re-estimated by quantifying and
aggregating the benefits and costs of the project using the data made available to the mission.
Representative crop models' for each state have been prepared and used in this exercise to reflect
differences in agricultural production systems and agro-climatic conditions in the three states. It is
expected, therefore, that this appendix would provide a basic framework for a further possible study
to be initiated by the MOA.
1 All crop models are on file as they are too bulky to be placed in this ICR.
43



B. PROJECT BENEFITS & ASSUMPTIONS
5.             The economic benefits of the project can be classified into four categories: (a) on-farn
benefits which include increased production of rainfed and irrigated crops, and horticulture, farm
forestry; (b) off-farm benefits which include increased production of timber, fuelwood, non-timber
forest products, and fodder; (c) environmental and natural resources benefits which comprise
prevention of agricultural land loss due to erosion, reduction in water run-off, reduction of soil loss,
improvement in soil fertility, and rise of groundwater table; and (d) other benefits which include
employment generation, reduction of migration to cities, women's labour saved due to availability of
water for both humans and animals, and benefits outside the project area such as flood control.
6.             One of the major benefits of the project, which was not anticipated at appraisal, is the
positive impact of increased water supply for domestic consumption as well as for crop irrigation.
This aspect is particularly beneficial to the livelihood of rural women, as they are normally
responsible for the collection of water for family use as well as for livestock consumption.
Benefited Areas
7.             In physical terms, the vegetative and engineering interventions supported by the project
have exceeded what was anticipated in the SAR'. The total area developed under various activities is
summarised in the table below. Detailed areas by activity and by year in the three states are shown in
Table 1
Total Benefited Areas by Activities
On Farm Development
Vegetative hedges 1/      ha    -   2,025   6,429   7,988  32,174  36,880   46,213  26,457  23,839  182,004
- Twenty % 2/           ha    -      405   1,286   15,98   8,435   7,376    9,243   5,291   4,768   36,401
Farm forestry             ha    -      280    723   2,198   3,943   6,102   13,769   3,722   3,388   34,105
Mixed horticulture        ha    -       59    332    834   1,304   1,548    4,228   3,885   4,460   16,650
Off Farm Development
Seedling Pasture          ha    -       12      15      18    128    233    4,357   4,154       147    9,064
Silvi-Pasture             ha    -      601   1,092   3,955   4,845   7,798    8,076   7,107   2,260   35,733
Multi tier Canopy 3/      ha    -      467   2,368   5,624   9,682  14,953   26,910  25,827  14,086   99,918
Incre. area under irrigation    ha    -  -       778    934   1,184   2,060    4,527   7,467   4,859   21,809
Total                             -   3,424  11,736  21,552  53,260  69,573  108,080  78,619  53,039  399,283
1/ Rainfed crop areas protected by vegetative hedges.
2/ It is assumed in the analysis that only 20% of the total area with "vegetative hedges" will benefit from rainfed improvement.
3/ Includes multi-tier canopy, degraded forest, and other forest plantations.
Detailed statistics are not available in the SAR to allow comparison.
44



On-farm Benefits
8.        These benefits would be realised through increased crop production in rainfed and
irrigated areas, including horticulture production, and farm forestry (alley planting).
Rainfed Crops
9.        It was anticipated at appraisal that rainfed crop yields would be improved through in situ
soil and moisture conservation as well as improved inputs used as a consequence of crop
demonstrations. Reviews of project impact assessments as well as discussions with farmers and
project staff, indicate that there has been a positive impact on rainfed crop yields, and this impact has
been estimated to be in the order of 10% over the without project situation. Nevertheless, the extent of
area in which yield increase has been realised is not obvious, but is considerably less than the total
treated area due to poor survival of vegetative hedges in many areas and the insignificant effect on
flat land (see Appendix C). Based on interviews with farmers and project staff, it has been estimated
that about 20% of the area treated under contour vegetative hedges would benefit significantly, and
that the 10% yield increase would be realised over a five-year-period.
10.       Not all crops grown in the project areas are represented in the financial and economic
analyses undertaken. Based on data provided, only the major crops grown in each state have been
included to represent the overall crop situation. Assumed representative crops and yield increases in
the three states are shown in Table 2. The crop yields given in the SAR for the without project
situation were not used in the analyses as they are no longer appropriate given the large general rise in
crop production in all states during the course of the project.
Irrigated Crops
11.       Through the construction of water harvesting structures, various types of check dams and
dug wells, the project has brought a significant additional area under irrigation. Some structures have
been constructed by the project and some are cost-shared with beneficiaries, while some water points
have been constructed solely by beneficiaries. The incremental area under irrigation in the three states
is also shown in Table 1. Cropping intensities in these irrigated areas have been estimated to reach a
maximum of 150%-160%, based on information provided. The irrigation of kharif crops is mainly life
saving or supplementary. Yields have been assumed to increase by about 30%-60% over rainfed crop
yields. Not all crops grown under irrigation have been included in the analyses. Based on data
provided, only the major crops grown under irrigation in each state have been included to represent
the overall irrigated crop situation. Assumed crops and yield increases are presented in Table 2.
Vegetable production has also been increased significantly where additional irrigation water is
available. Brinjal has been used in the analyses to represent a range of vegetable crops grown under
irrigation.
45



Horticulturel
12.        A substantial area has been placed under fruit trees, either as spaced plants on contours in
field crop areas or in orchards. However, due to different agro-climatic conditions in the three states,
local species preferences for fruit trees are different. Representative fruit trees used in the analysis are
as follows: mango, sapota and citrus in Gujarat State, mango and cashew in Orissa State, and ber and
citrus in Rajasthan State. It has been assumed that in the without project situation, this land was
previously used for dry land cropping. All detailed technical parameters and benefits for each
representative fruit tree crop are contained in their respective crop models (on file). Salient features
of assumptions used are presented in Table 3.
Farm Forestry
13.        For farm forestry, a wide range of tree species has been used in the project area. To
simplify the analysis, an Acacia tree model has been used to represent on-farm forestry. Detailed
technical parameters and benefits are on file. The area under on-farn forestry is shown in Table 1.
Salient features of assumptions used are presented in Table 3.
Off-farm Benefits
14.        Off-farm benefits have been generated through three main activities: establishing areas of
new pasture, silvi-pasture, and mixed forest plantations (multi-tier canopy). To capture the benefits
and costs of these activities, crop models have been formulated for these three fodder and forest
production systems. Products generated from these activities include timber, fuelwood, non-timber
forest products such as gum, and fodder. The area developed under these three models is shown in
Table 1. The detailed models are on file and yields summarised in Table 3.
15.        Increased fodder availability combined with project intervention in animal husbandry
would have a beneficial impact on livestock production, most importantly milk production.
Discussions with beneficiaries in the project area clearly revealed this positive impact. In some
project areas, milk collection centres have been newly established due to increased milk production.
However, systematic data on increased milk production, due to additional fodder produced under the
project, are not available. Therefore, the value of fodder production has been used to represent the
benefit to the animal husbandry component.
Environmental and Natural Resources Benefits
16.        The overall aim of the project to slow down and reverse the degradation of the natural
environment (i.e. reduce soil erosion and improve water resources and vegetative cover) has been
rated by the mission to be good to very good in all the three states. Illustrative examples at particular
sites include:
In this report, the term "horticulture" refers to fruit tree plantations.
46



*  The construction of contour ditches and planting of vegetative hedges has reduced average
soil loss per hectare from 1.63 t (1992/93) to 0.125 t (1996/97) in Rajasthan and has
resulted in silt deposited in V ditches of 10-28 cm in Orissa;
*  Similarly, contour ditches with vegetative hedges reduced run-off loss of water from
66.16 mm to 23.94 mm in Rajasthan;
*  The construction of water harvesting structures and installation of vegetative and
engineering barriers in natural watercourses have increased the level of water tables by as
much as 0.85 to 3.5 m in selected locations in the three states.
17.       As a result of the increased availability of soil moisture, and reduction in soil loss and
fertility, natural vegetation has also recovered. Based on a satellite imagery study conducted in the
project areas in Rajasthan State, it was evident that there has been a positive change in vegetation
cover: dense vegetation has been estimated to have increased from 1,591 ha (1990) to 2,667 ha (1995)
in project areas.
18.       Part of this positive environmental impact has been captured and translated into economic
benefits in the analyses undertaken, as represented by increased agricultural production through
increased crop productivity and increased crop areas. However, other benefits are difficult to translate
into economic terms. As in the SAR, it has been assumed that 0.5% of production (which would
otherwise be lost annually without the project) would be saved through project interventions.
Other Benefits
19.       In addition to the above mentioned benefits, there are several benefits which are vital to
the rural communities, but they are difficult to translate into economic terms. These benefits are: (a)
employment generation in poor communities (in addition to employment generated directly by the
project, it has been estimated that annual employment of about 16 million person-days - by year 2010
- would be created in project areas); (b) project benefits generated to minorities and poor people in
tribal areas; (c) availability of water to rural women, hence freeing their time for other domestic
purposes; (d) reduction in migration to large cities; and (e) reduction in public expenditure on O&M
of rural infrastructure such as roads, drains and dams as a result of reduction in flood. These benefits
are not included in the calculation of the ERRs.
C. PROJECT ANALYSIS
Prices
20.       All financial farm-gate prices (1999 prices) of outputs and inputs used in the analysis are
presented in Table 4. For non-tradeable commodities, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90
has been applied to adjust financial prices to economic prices. For major tradeable commodities, such
as maize, wheat, paddy, and fertiliser, parity prices have been calculated on the basis of price
projections made by the World Bank (Commodity Markets, January 1999). The average of import and
export parity prices of maize, wheat and paddy have been used, as India has become more or less self-
sufficient in these commodities. Derivation of parity prices is shown in Table 5.
47



Impact on Farm Income
21.       To illustrate the impact of the project on farm income, a representative farm model of 1.5
ha has been prepared with 1.33 ha under rainfed crops, 0.04 ha under irrigated crops, and 0.13 ha
under fruit trees. Impact on farm income is summarised in the table below. It has been assumed that
without the project the representative farm model has 1.5 ha of only rainfed crops, and that all labour
is family labour. With the project, it has been assumed that about 20% of rainfed crop areas would be
improved and that intercropping has taken place during the early years of establishment of fruit
orchards. It is clear from the table that impacts are only gradual and slow in the early stages before the
generation of additional income from horticulture (fruit and nuts) which, at a later stage, would play
an important role in overall farm income. The analysis shows that with the project, over a period of 10
years the farm income would rise by about 27% compared with the pre-project income level. This
increase represents 35% improvement over the income in the without project situation assuming there
will be an annual benefit reduction of 0.5%. In addition, this increase is an underestimate of the
expected increase in total family income as income derived from animal husbandry as well as from
non-arable land is not included in the calculation.
Farm Income
Unit: Rs 000
, LI PL XIMIMPgp~ ~   ~ Yea M       Year5     Y earl
Wo. Project 11               21.3       20.8       20.2
WI. Project
Rainfed crops 2/           21.3        20.5       19.3
Irrigated crops                         0.9        0.9
Horticulture                            0.3        6.9
Total                      21.3        21.7       27.2
1/ Assuming a reduction of 0.5% p.a.
2/ Including Rs. 1,300 from intercropping in horticulture in year 5.
Production
22.       Incremental production of food crops, annual cash crops, crop by-products, vegetables,
fruit, timber/fuelwood, fodder, and forest products in years 5, 10, 20, and 30 is summarised in the
table below'. As indicated above, estimations have been done by state, and then aggregated to the
project level. Estimation of production has been carried out using representative crop models and
applied to corresponding areas in each state. It should be noted also that significant diversification of
agriculture has taken place in the project areas. In the long run, increased fuelwood and timber
production would help to decrease pressure on local forest areas.
SAR's production data are not available for comparison.
48



Incremental Production
Unit    YS      Y10       Y20        Y30
Food grains/annual crops  000 t  2.8     30.5       34.2      34.2
By-products           000 t      3.2     42.9       47.4      47.4
Vegetable              000 t     6.0      58.2      63.2      63.2
Fruits                000 t      -        10.5      88.4      79.2
Timber/Fuelwood       OOOm3      -        8.7      147.5     120.8
Fodder (sun dried)    000 t      3.0     45.7       62.5      62.5
Fodder (green)        000 t      6.4    191.9      134.9     134.9
Forest products         t        -        16.0     722.0       -
Economic Analysis
23.       The economic analysis of the project has been undertaken at the aggregate level,
summing up all the benefits and costs of the project in the three participating states. Relevant
representative crop models have been formulated for use in the aggregation to the project level. All
detailed economic crop models in the three states are on file, and a summary of crop models (in
economic terms) in the three states is shown in Table 6.
Economic Benefits
24.       As discussed in the foregoing sections, the major quantified economic benefits of the
project are mainly the incremental agricultural production applied to relevant economic prices. The
annual economic net cash flow for the whole project area at full production (2010) is estimated at
about Rs.750 million (US$17.8 million).
Economic Costs
25.       The total economic costs of the project are derived from two sources: (a) project costs
incurred at project management level, and (b) project costs incurred at farm level. Project costs (at
project management level) by state are shown in Table 7. All costs incurred in the past have been
converted into 1999 costs, using the price indexes and exchange rates presented in Table 8.
Economic Rates of Return
26.       The ERRs have been calculated with the following assumptions:
*  Analysis in 1999 constant prices;
*  Analysis over 30 years;
*  A standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 applied to non-tradeable items;
*  Economic cost of labour at Rs.40 per person day.
49



27.       The ERRs have been estimated for each state (Tables 9-11) and then aggregated to the
whole project (Table 12), and the result is presented in the table below:
Economic Rates of Return
Gujarat           16       na
Orissa            18       na
Pajasthan         11       na
Overall           14      17.7
28.       The findings of the analysis indicate that the project is economically viable, although the
ERR for the whole project - estimated at 14% - is lower than the SAR's estimate of 17.7%. All
economic costs incurred have been included in the cost stream, while in the SAR's estimate, some
costs have been excluded. These costs have been included entirely in the calculation because they
have been substantially reduced compared with those estimated at SAR. It is noteworthy also that
although all three states achieved acceptable ERRs, there are variations among participating states,
with Orissa State appearing to be the highest, followed by Gujarat and Rajasthan. The economic
impact in Rajasthan is less than anticipated, although this state has experienced success in
institutional innovations that are not reflected in the estimation of the ERRs. The relatively low ERR
in Rajasthan is attributed mainly to: (1) the limited yield impact due to severe agro-climatic
conditions; and (2) the relatively large total project costs in relation to the areas developed. As
discussed in the foregoing sections, the ERRs capture only quantifiable benefits and the estimation of
the benefits was based on rather conservative assumptions. Actual ERRs would be expected to be
significantly higher if all the environmental and social benefits were captured.
Sensitivity Analysis
29.       The extent of rainfed crop area that would benefit from the contour vegetative hedges
(CVH) cannot be easily identified, as area-specific surveys to assess efficacy were not conducted. It is
apparent, however, that there was very poor survival of vegetative hedges in Rajasthan, with slightly
better survival in Gujarat and relatively better survival in Orissa. Because of this lack of suitable data,
it has been assumed in the analyses that 20% of the total area protected by CVH would benefit.
However, because of these unquantified differences between states, a sensitivity analysis has been
carried out for two other possible scenarios, A and B, assuming respectively the benefit area would be
10% and 30% of the total planted area. The result of this analysis is shown in the table below. It
indicates that there would be no major impact on the ERR with the variation in the benefit areas
assumed, and the project would still be considered economically viable under Scenario A. In
Scenario B, the ERR would improve by 1% to 15%.
50



Sensitivity Analysis
States                    ERRI%
Basel/  ScenarioA21 Scenario B 3!
Gujarat            16         13           17
Orissa             18         16           19
Rajasthan          11         11           12
Overall            14         13           15
1/ Benefits of cvh areas at 20%;
2/ Benefits of cvh areas at 10%;
3/ Benefits of cvh areas at 30%;
Risks
30.       The ERRs have been calculated based on a number of assumptions. The major
assumptions are that: (a) all assets created by the project will be maintained adequately so as to
generate production over a 30-year period; and (b) productivity will be maintained at the assumed
level. Thus, the major risks to the veracity of these analyses are linked with these assumptions, viz.
(a) whether the beneficiaries and the State will continue to maintain the assets created, and (b)
whether the beneficiaries will continue to apply required inputs and to receive technical support from
various line departments to maintain crop productivity. It is considered that major risks are associated
more with the former than the latter. The community participatory approach adopted by the project
and creation of beneficiaries' groups would certainly help mitigate the risks.
Lessons Learned
31.       There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the above analysis which could be used
in the preparation of future watershed development projects:
Analysis of the impact of each activity on the overall project benefits indicates the
following: (a) horticulture and irrigation components are the major contributors to the
overall benefits; they represent 36%-63% and 21%-33% respectively of the total benefits,
depending on the state; (b) the contribution from rainfed crops is rather limited, and
estimated at 2%- 1% (based on 20% CVH areas); (c) forest products and fodder
contribute 11%-27% of the total benefits; and (d) the impact of the environmental aspect
(based on the saving of 0.5% of the "without project" benefits p.a.) is also limited and
estimated at 2%-i 1%.
* Use of economic findings, particularly ERRs, to make judgements on relative
performance of the project in each state should be treated with great care. As the ERR
analysis incorporates only quantifiable benefits and costs, there is no room for innovative
approaches and new institutional arrangements to be included as benefits. Besides, the
ERR analysis tends to penalise the area where the agro-climatic conditions are difficult
because it generates relatively lower incremental benefits. This is exactly the case of
Rajasthan State where the estimated ERR of 11% is the lowest.
51



* As indicated above, benefits from horticulture and irrigation are the major contributors to
overall benefits. This aspect is particularly crucial if the project aims to improve financial
attractiveness, hence promoting participation of beneficiaries to ensure project
sustainability. The delayed benefits from these two activities were due to: (i) the irrigation
component only being introduced in the later part of the project, and (ii) the horticulture
development only generating income in the longer term. Furthermore, although the
horticultural development is financially attractive to farmers, there are liquidity problems
during the early years, particularly for small farmers. Support to farmers during this low-
liquidity period is considered extremely crucial.
* The impact assessment of an integrated watershed project is a complex and difficult
process as the project generally contains many components and activities, and it is
implemented in various places over a long period of time. Systematic and periodic
information on area-wide crop yields and benefits of various activities is required to
ensure good estimation of benefits, hence allowing a more accurate and reliable
estimation of the economic impacts. The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit of the
project should provide adequate emphasis not only on progress reporting and result
assessment, but also on impact evaluation aspect. This impact evaluation has to cover all
aspects of the project, from rainfed agriculture to animal husbandry.
52



INDIA
INI'EGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX C: APPROACHES AND ACHIEVEMNETS IN WATERSHED
DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
53






Table 1: Benefited Area under Various Activities
GUJARAT
Unit    90/91     91/92     92/93     93194     94/95    95/96     96/97     979       9/9        oa
On Farm Development
Vegetative hedges         ha         -       1,371     1,763     2,155    14,985    22,722    27,325    10,480    17,140    97,940
- Twenty %              ha         -        274       353       431     2,997     4,544     5,465    2,096     3,428     19,588
Farm forestry             ha         -         111       143      175     1,216     1,844     2,217      850      1,391     7,947
Mixed horticulture        ha         -          24       31        37       260       394      474       182       297      1,699
Off Farm Development
Seedling Pasture          ha         -          12        15       18       128       195      234        90       147        839
Silvi-Pasture             ha         -          83       107      131       908     1,377     1,656      635      1,038     5,934
Multi tier Canopy 1/      ha         -         278      357       436     3,033     4,599     5,570     2,198    3,546    20,018
Area under irrigation      ha          -         -        365       109       359      405       163       503      1,233     3,137
Total                                  -       1,879     2,780    3,061    20,889    31,536    37,639    14,938    24,792    137,514
ORISSA
Unit       90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99            Total
On Farm Development
Vegetative hedges     ha             -          35     1,713     1,241     1,664     1,916    10,147    2,863       -      19,579
- Twenty %          ha             -           7       343      248       333       383     2,029      573        -       3,916
Fann forestry         ha              -        -         -         -        -       2,572     6,856     2,531     1,432    13,391
Mixedhorticulture     ha              -        -         190      339       473       714     3,160     3,110     3,770    11,756
Off Farm Development
Seedling Pasture      ha             -         -         -         -        -          38       950      735        -       1,723
Silvi-Pasture         ha             -         -          66       139      253       417       685      550       650      2,760
Multi tier Canopy 1/  ha             -         101     1,140     1,796     3,558    5,067    15,146    13,122     7,003    46,933
Area under irrigation    ha            -         -        413       825       825     1,238     1,238     1,651    2,063      8,253
Total                                  -         136     3,522    4,340     6,773    11,962    38,182    24,562    14,918   104,395
55



RAJASTHAN
7LU _ _ E                                        9
On Farm Development
Vegetative hedges      ha         -       619    2,953    4,592   15,525   12,242    8,741   13,114    6,699   64,485
- Twenty %           ha         -       124      591      918    3,105    2,448    1,748    2,623    1,340   12,897
Farm forestry          ha        -        149      580    2,023    2,727    1,686    4,696     341      565    12,767
Mixed horticulture     ha        -         35      111      458     571      440      594      593      393    3,195
Off Farm Development
Seedling Pasture       ha        -        -        -        -        -        -      3,173    3,329     -       6,502
Silvi-Pasture          ha                 518      919    3,685    3,684    6,004    5,735    5,922     572   27,039
Multi tier Canopy 1/   ha        -         86      868    3,388    3,061    5,242    6,179   10,563    3,580   32,967
Incre. area under irrigatio  ha    -        -        -        -       -        417    3,126    5,314    1,563    10,419
Total                              -      1,407    5,431   14,146   25,568   26,031   32,244   39,176   13,372  157,374
Sources: Project Offices and mission estimates.
1/ Include multi tier canopy, degraded forest, and other forest plantations.
56



Table 2: Impact on Crop Yields
Unit: ton/ha.
GUJARAT
Crops                        Rainfed Crops                          Irigated Crops
Wu r      Yvi . IP  ,-                'io. P    Wi., p
Millet                         1.250    1.375    10%                  1.250     1.600    28%
Cotton                         1.150    1.250    9%                   1.150     1.450    26%
Maize                          1.900    2.100    11%                  1.900     2.400    26%
Pulses                        0.900     1.000    11%
Wheat                                                                   -       2.900
G.nut                                                                 0.850     1.400    65%
Brinjal                                                                        20.000
ORISSA
Crops                        Rainfed Crops                           Irrigated Crops
Wo.P      Wi.P       %                 Wo.P      Wi.P        %
Maize                          1.150    1.325    15%                  1.400     2.000    43%
Paddy                         2.000     2.250    13%                  2.000     2.800    40%
Pulses                        0.280     0.325    16%
G.nut                         0.600     0.750    25%
Brinjal                                                                        20.000
RAJASTHAN
Crops                        Ralnfed Crops                          Irrigated Crops
Wo.P      wi.P       %                 Wo.P      wi.P        %
Millet                        0.400     0.450    13%                  0.400     0.650    63%
Sorghum                       0.400     0.470    18%                  0.400     0.650    63%
Maize                          1.200    1.275    6%                   1.200     1.550    29%
Pulses                        0.375     0.450    20%
Wheat                                                                   -       2.000
Brinjal                                                                        20.000
Sources: Project Offices and mission estimates.
57



Table 3: Yield Estimates per Year of Off-Farm Production 11
Unit      7aati0 R0jasthan
Pasture model
- grass, sun dried        kg/ha     1,200.0                -               1,000.0
- fodder-green            kg/ha        -              11,000.0
Silvi-pasture model
- fuelwood                m3/ha        1.5                 1.0                 0.3
- grass, sun dried        kg/ha                                            1,000.0
- fodder, sun dried       kg/ha      400.0                                  250.0
- fodder, green           kg/ha                        8,000.0
Farm forestry model
- timber, soft wood       m3/ha       25.0                10.0                 5.0
- fuelwood                m3lha        1.5                 1.0                 2.0
- gum                     kg/ha      150.0
MTCC model
- timber, soft wood       m3/ha       12.0               100.0
- fuelwood                m3/ha        1.5                 1.0                 0.6
- fodder, sun dried       kg/ha      400.0                                  500.0
- fodder, green           kg/ha                        6,000.0
Sources: Project Offices and Mission Estirnates.
1/ Yields at full development for timber.
58



Table 4: Financial Farm-Gate Prices of Outputs and Inputs
---I--                u*vt     Pr.l.o          Ine                    Uit      PHX
Wheat                  kg          6.5         Paddy Seeds            kg         22.0
Wheat by-product       kg          1.5         Wheat seeds            kg          8.0
Maize                  kg          5.0         Maize seeds            kg          10.0
Maize by-product       kg          0.9         Gram seeds             kg         30.0
Paddy                  kg          5.1         Pulses seeds           kg         25.0
Paddy by-product       kg          0.3         Millet seeds           kg         30.0
Gram                   kg         20.0         Sorghum seeds          kg         15.0
Pulses                 kg         20.0         Cotton seeds           kg        300.0
Millet                 kg          5.5          Brinjal seeds         kg         150.0
Millet by-product      kg          1.0         Mango seedling         no          15.0
Sorghum                kg          5.0         Sapota seedling        no         40.0
Sorghum by-product     kg          1.0          Citrus seedlings      no          3.0
Cotton                 kg         20.0          Ber seedlings         no          8.0
Brinjal                kg          1.5          Digging pits          no         25.0
Citrus                 kg          8.0         Manure                ton        100.0
Timber (soft wood)    m3         900.0         Insecticide            litre     280.0
Fuelwood              m3         600.0         CAN                    kg          4.8
Grass (green)         ton        300.0         SSP                    kg          4.0
Grass (sun dried)      kg          2.0         Urea                   kg          4.0
Fodder (green)         kg          0.8         DAP                    kg          9.0
Fodder (sun dried)     kg          2.0          Silvipasture Planting M    no     2.0
Gum                    kg         20.0         Digging Holes          no          2.0
Ber                    kg          5.0          Fodder seed           kg         20.0
Acacia seedlings      no          2.0
MTTC seedlings        no           1.0
Digging V ditch       m            1.0
Planting shrubs       m           0.2
Grass seeds           kg         20.0
Labor                 md         45.0
Sources: Project offices and mission estimates.
59



Table 5: Derivation of Parity Prices of Outputs and Inputs
Unit                                     t tt.p,,Mty=
Paddy   Wheat  Maize  Sorghum   Urea         TSP        DAP          Paddy   Wheat   Maize  Sorghum
Projected World Price
In 1990 constant dollars, ave. 1999-2010 1/  US$/t      284.5   127.5   103.3       99.5   104.6    132.0       174.4        284.5    127.5    103.3      99.5
Adj. factor to 1998 dollars               %            104.00   104.00   104.00   104.00   104.00    104.00    104.00       104.00   104.00    104.00    104.00
In constant 1998 dollars                  US$/t         295.9   132.6   107.4    103.5   108.8    137.3         181.4        295.9    132.6    107.4    103.5
Quality Adjustment                        %              80.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0         100.0         80.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
World Market Equivalent                   US$/t         236.7   132.6   107.4    103.5   108.8    137.3         181.4        236.7    132.6    107.4    103.5
International Transport                   US$/t          50.0   100.0    50.0       50.0    50.0      50.0       50.0        (50.0)   (50.0)    (50.0)    (50.0)
BorderPricelndianPort                     US$/t         286.7   232.6   157.4    153.5   158.8    187.3         231.4        186.7     82.6      57.4     53.5
Exchange rate 2/                         US$/Rs        41.5    41.5    41.5       41.5    41.5      41.5       41.5         41.5      41.5     41.5      41.5
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------Rs------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Border Price Indian Port                  Rs/t         11,898    9,653    6,533    6,369    6,590    7,772      9,602        7,748    3,428    2,383     2,219
Port charges                             Rs/t           330      330     330       330     330       330        330         (300)    (300)    (300)    (300)
Intemal transport                        Rs/t           300      300     300       300     300       300        300         (300)    (300)    (300)    (300)
Intemal handling/marketing               Rs/t           150      150     150       150      150      150        150         (150)    (150)    (150)    (150)
Wholesale Price                           Rs/t         12,678   10,433    7,313    7,149    7,370    8,552     10,382        6,998    2,678     1,633    1,469
Conversion Ratio                        %                62      100     100       100     100       100        100           62      100       100      100
Processing cost                          Rs/t          (200)              -                 -        -          -           (200)
Raw Materials Value                       Rs/t          7,660   10,433    7,313    7,149    7,370    8,552     10,382        4,139    2,678     1,633    1,469
Local marketing/transport               Rs/t           (100)   (100)   (100)    (100)   (100)    (100)         (100)        (100)    (100)    (100)    (100)
Farngate price                            Rs/t          7,560   10,333    7,213    7,049    7,270    8,452     10,282        4,039    2,578     1,533    1,369
Paraefpri00e                              Rsk 00f;    t   $ 000  03000  t::0 j:7.56 1;0.00a3Q3 :;007.21000000; 7.05 00007.2700  8.45   t0010.28000  4.004  258 1.3  .3
Sources: Mission estimate.
1/ Global Commodity Markets, January 1999; in constant 1990 price.
2/ Office Memorandum, December 2, 1998, the World Bank.
60



Table 6: Per Hectare Economic Costs and Incomes
Gujarat
Rainfed Crops                                   Su0Dlementarv Inigated Croos
Pulses   Cotton   Millet    Miz              Groundnut Bringal  Cotton   Wheat   Millet    Maize
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Rs/ha -------------------------------------------------------
With Project
Revenue            18,000   22,500    8,651    17,223             25,200   27,000   26,100    35,656    10,057    19,728
Costs               2,277    3,107     1,674    2,197               1,605    9,717     3,575    3,182     1,728    2,332
Labour                810    2,956     1,539    2,227               3,240    4,860     3,240    3,442     1,822    2,673
Income             14,913    16,436    5,438    12,799             20,355    12,423    19,285   29,031    6,507    14,723
Without Project
Revenue            16,200   20,700    7,852    15,592              15,300             20,700              7,852    15,592
Costs               1,062    3,071     1,674    2,197               1,151              3,071              1,152    2,197
Labour                688    2,836     1,417    2,025               2,025              2,835              1,417    2,025
Income             14,449    14,794    4,761    11,370             12,124             14,794              5,283    11,370
Rainfed Crop!                        __Suppementary Irrigated Crops
Pulses   Paddy   roundnut Maize                Paddy   Sringal   Maize
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Rs/ha -------------------------------------------------------
With Project
Revenue             5,880    17,739    13,500    11,529            22,079   27,000    17,383
Costs                 751    2,370     1,151     1,657              2,694    9,717     2,152
Labour              1,215    4,252    3,240    2,227                5,265    7,087     2,835
Income              3,834    11,116    9,108     7,644             14,120    10,195    12,396
Without Project
Revenue             5,040    15,096    10,800    11,001            15,096             11,992
Costs                 751    2,370     1,151     1,656              2,370              1,657
Labour              1,012    4,050    3,037      2,025              4,050              2,025
Income              3,276    9,351     6,611     6,319              9,351              8,310
61



Rajasthan
Rainfect rops                                      suppemntry Irigatd O,p
Pulses  Sorhum    Millt   0 Maize                         Bngal  WStrghum  W t           Milet 77 7Maize
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----Rs/ha-----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
With Project
Revenue              8,100     4,460     3,361    11,628                       27,000     6,188    24,590     4,729    14,124
Costs                  994      648       900      1,341                        9,717     1,089     2,646     1,089     1,765
Labour                 810     1,012     1,093     1,093                        6,075     1,417     1,093     1,336     1,215
Income               6,295     2,799     1,368    9,193                        11,208     3,681    20,850     2,304    11,144
Without Project
Revenue              6,750     2,808     2,988    10,935                                  3,808               2,988    10,935
Costs                  994      648       900      1,341                                   963                 900      1,621
Labour                 810     1,012     1,012     1,012                                  1,012               1,012     1,012
Income               4,944     2,147     1,075    8,581                                   1,832               1,075     8,301
Sources: Project Offices and Mission Estimates.
62



Table 7: Actual Project Costs by Year
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96197    97/98    98/9       Total
In Rs mil
A. Gujarat                     17.5    21.0      27.2     26.0     80.9    122.3    145.3    119.8    109.3    669.2
B. Orissa                       0.0      4.4     18.5     40.9     38.0    117.8      99.9    199.9    160.6    680.0
C. Rajasthan                    7.1    35.0      82.6    120.6    132.3    227.6    247.1    166.6    124.2   1,143.0
Total                         24.6     60.4    128.2    187.5    251.1    467.7    492.3    486.3    394.2  2,492.2
In US$ mil
A. Gujarat                    0.87      0.86     0.96     0.84     2.54     3.60     4.05      3.09     2.61    19.43
B. Orissa                      -       0.18      0.65     1.32     1.19     3.47     2.79      5.15     3.84    18.59
C. Rajasthan                  0.35      1.44     2.93     3.90     4.15     6.71     6.89      4.29     2.97    33.62
Total                        1.22     2.48      4.55     6.06     7.87    13.78    13.72    12.54      9.41    71.64
Exchange Rates 1/
Rs/US$                       20.12    24.33    28.21    30.93    31.90    33.93    35.87    38.79    41.88      34.79
1/ International Financial Statistics, 1996 and March 1999, IMF; rates calculated based on two years average.
63



Table 8: Exchange Rates and Price Indexes
:X- 990191    99/ "925 192/3 1993/4M 1994/95       195/96    199/7   1997 /8   1998/9
I. EXCHANGE RATES It
-RsperUS$                          20.12     24.33    28.21     30.93     31.90     33.93     35.87     38.79     41.88
II. PRICE INDEXES
1. Domestic 1/
Index (1990 =100)                106.8    120.3    131.7    143.6    157.9    169.8    179.2    189.3    201.6
Index(1999=100)                  188.9    167.7    153.1    140.4    127.7    118.8    112.5    106.5    100.0
2. International 21
Index (1990 =100)                101.1     104.4    106.5    108.3    114.7    116.6    111.1    106.1          104.7
Index (1999 =100)                103.6    100.3       98.4     96.7      91.3      89.8      94.2      98.7     100.0
1/ International Financial Statistics, 1996 and March 1999, IMF.
2/ G-5 MUV, Global Commodity Markets, January, 1999, the World Bank.
Yearly rate: RsperUS$       17.5    22.74     25.92     30.49     31.37     32.43    35.43     36.31     41.26     42.50
Dome/index                  100    113.5    127.0    136.4    150.8    164.9    174.6    183.8    194.8            208.4
Inter/index                 100    102.2    106.6    106.3    110.2    119.2    114.0    108.2    104.0            105.4
64



Table 9: Estimation of the ERR - Gujarat
Unit: Rs million
Year                 Economic Benefits                     Economic Costs                Not Cash Flow
Incre. Ag roduction tal Benefit       Project 0 & M 41  Total
Production Saved 21                    Costs 31
90/91
91/92                -                  -
92/93               7.90               7.90                -       0.50      0.50               7.40
93/94               11.70      -      11.70                -       0.60      0.60              11.10
94/95              21.80       -      21.80                -       0.80      0.80             21.00
95/96              33.80       -      33.80                -       1.30      1.30              32.50
96/97              43.90       -      43.90                -       2.00     2.00              41.90
97/98              61.60       -      61.60                -       2.30     2.30              59.30
98/99              97.30       -      97.30                -       3.30      3.30             94.00
99/00              128.80      -     128.80                       89.90    89.90              38.90
00/01              144.10      -     144.10                       79.50    79.50               64.60
01/02              160.80      -     160.80                       83.30    83.30               77.50
02/03              184.80      -     184.80                       81.00    81.00              103.80
03/04              208.10      -     208.10                       88.60    88.60              119.50
04/05              228.80      -     228.80                       92.50    92.50              136.30
05/06              243.70      -     243.70                       96.90    96.90              146.80
06/07              248.20      -     248.20                       101.10   101.10             147.10
07/08              253.40      -     253.40                       101.20   101.20             152.20
08/09              261.90      -     261.90                       104.30   104.30             157.60
09/10              274.70      -     274.70                       109.20   109.20             165.50
10/11             281.10       -     281.10                      116.70    116.70             164.40
11/12              269.90      -     269.90                       120.90   120.90             149.00
12/13              322.50      -     322.50                       115.50    115.50           207.00
13/14             333.10       -     333.10                      139.10   139.10              194.00
14/15              344.50      -     344.50                      136.70   136.70             207.80
15/16             276.80       -     276.80                      132.70   132.70              144.10
16/17             298.10       -     298.10                       92.30    92.30              205.80
17/18             230.60       -     230.60                       97.90    97.90              132.70
18/19             230.50       -     230.50                       97.90    97.90              132.60
19/20             230.50       -     230.50                       97.90    97.90              132.60
ERR           16
1/ Aggregation of all representative incremental agricultural production, fodder, fuelwood, timber, and relative forest products.
2/ Assuming 0.5% production decline (in without project situation) saved by project; same as SAR assumption.
3/ Total project cost including beneficiaries' contribution estimated at 4% of costs incurred by project offices.
4/ O&M at farm level required to produce the assumed benefits.
65



Table 10: Estimation of the ERR - Orissa
Unit: Rs million
707                 E       c  e                        Eomco                      Ne C  F
Incre. Ag roduction tal Benefit    Project 0 & M 41  Total
Production Saved 21                 Costs 31
90/91
91/92
92/93              1.40     -       1.40              -                -                1.40
93/94              8.80     -       8.80              -       0.60    0.60              8.20
94/95             24.10     -      24.10              -       2.00    2.00             22.10
95/96             42.60     -      42.60              -       3.50    3.50             39.10
96/97             79.20     -      79.20              -       5.80    5.80             73.40
97/98            118.20     -    118.20               -       8.20    8.20            110.00
98/99            172.30     -    172.30               -      11.60    11.60           160.70
99/00           237.40      -    237.40               -    366.00   366.00           (128.60)
00/01            281.10     -    281.10                     371.20   371.20           (90.10)
01/02            318.50     -    318.50                     376.10   376.10           (57.60)
02/03            365.90     -    365.90                     379.60   379.60           (13.70)
03/04            430.90     -    430.90                     383.30   383.30            47.60
04/05            519.40     -    519.40                     388.30   388.30           131.10
05/06            604.80     -    604.80                     391.90   391.90           212.90
06/07            672.50     -    672.50                     394.70   394.70           277.80
07/08            705.90     -    705.90                     395.50   395.50           310.40
08/09            718.60     -    718.60                     396.50   396.50           322.10
09/10            718.60     -    718.60                     396.50   396.50           322.10
10/11            718.60     -    718.60                     396.50   396.50           322.10
11/12            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50            322.10
12/13            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50            322.10
13/14            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50            322.10
14/15            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50            322.10
15/16            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50            322.10
16/17            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50           322.10
17/18           718.60      -    718.60                    396.50   396.50           322.10
18/19           718.60      -    718.60                    396.50   396.50           322.10
19/20            718.60     -    718.60                    396.50   396.50           322.10
1/ Aggregation of all representative incremental agricultural production, fodder, fuelwood, timber, and relative forest products.
2/ Assuming 0.5% production decline (in without project situation) saved by project; same as SAR assumption.
3/ Total project cost including beneficiaries' contribution estimated at 4% of costs incurred by project offices.
4/ O&M at farm level required to produce the assumed benefits.
AA



Table 11: Estimation of the ERR - Rajasthan
Unit: Rs million
Year        oomiomic co:ti                                                     Net Cash Flow
Incre. Ag roduction tal Benefit   Project 0 & M 41  Total
Prodmi-tintn Saved 21              Costs 31
90/91
91/92              -                -                _                _
92/93             0.20     -       0.20              -                -               0.20
93/94             0.82     -       0.82              -       -                        0.82
94/95             3.30     -       3.30              -       -                        3.30
95/96            14.00     -      14.00              -       -        -              14.00
96/97            66.20     -      66.20              -      0.50     0.50            65.70
97/98           164.10     -    164.10               -      4.00    4.00            160.10
98/99           232.30     -    232.30               -     10.20    10.20           222.10
99/00           279.70     -    279.70               -    213.90   213.90            65.80
00/01           329.40      -    329.40                   229.90   229.90            99.50
01/02           372.00      -    372.00                   242.30   242.30           129.70
02/03           407.20      -    407.20                   247.10   247.10           160.10
03/04           431.20      -    431.20                   248.80   248.80           182.40
04/05           447.60      -    447.60                   251.60   251.60           196.00
05/06           454.60      -    454.60                   252.00   252.00           202.60
06/07           455.50      -    455.50                   252.30   252.30           203.20
07/08           455.50      -    455.50                   252.30   252.30           203.20
08/09           455.20      -    455.20                   252.20   252.20           203.00
09/10           454.00      -    454.00                   252.20   252.20           201.80
10/11           449.40     -    449.40                    251.90   251.90           197.50
11/12           442.20      -    442.20                   251.50   251.50           190.70
12/13           435.70      -    435.70                   251.10   251.10           184.60
13/14           428.40     -    428.40                    250.60   250.60           177.80
14/15           420.40     -    420.40                    250.20   250.20           170.20
15/16           414.20     -    414.20                    249.70   249.70           164.50
16/17           413.20     -    413.20                    249.80   249.80           163.40
17/18           415.30      -    415.30                   250.40   250.40           164.90
18/19           422.40     -    422.40                    251.80   251.80           170.60
19/20           425.60     -    425.60                    251.90   251.90           173.70
ERR=         11%
I/ Aggregation of all representative incremental agricultural production, fodder, fuelwood, timber, and relative forest products.
2/ Assuming 0.5% production decline (in without project situation) saved by project; same as SAR assumption.
3/ Total project cost including beneficiaries' contribution estimated at 4% of costs incurred by project offices.
4/ O&M at farm level required to produce the assumed benefits.
67



Table 12: Estimation of the ERR - Whole Project
Unit: Rs million
Economic Benefits                   Economic00;00000 00Costs  Net CXs FlowX
Incre. Ag roduction otal Benefit     Project O & M 4/  Total
Production i Saved 2/                 Costs 3)
90/91                                                 43.52            43.52           (43.52)
91/92                                  -              94.98            94.98           (94.98)
92/93              9.50    3.30      12.80           183.74    0.50   184.24          (171.44)
93/94             21.32     6.60     27.92           245.70     1.20   246.90         (218.98)
94/95             49.20     9.90     59.10           300.96    2.80   303.76          (244.66)
95/96             90.40    13.20     103.60          520.94    4.80   525.74          (422.14)
96/97            189.30    16.50    205.80           520.70    8.30   529.00           (323.20)
97/98            343.90    19.80    363.70           487.04    14.50   501.54          (137.84)
98/99            501.90   23.10     525.00           368.88   25.10   393.98           131.02
99/00            645.90   26.40     672.30                    669.80   669.80            2.50
00/01            754.60   29.70      784.30                   680.60   680.60          103.70
01/02            851.30    33.00     884.30                   701.70   701.70          182.60
02/03            957.90    36.30     994.20                   707.70   707.70          286.50
03/04           1,070.20   39.60   1,109.80                   720.70   720.70          389.10
04/05           1,195.80   42.90   1,238.70                   732.40   732.40          506.30
05/06           1,303.10   46.20   1,349.30                   740.80   740.80          608.50
06/07           1,376.20   49.50   1,425.70                   748.10   748.10          677.60
07/08           1,414.80   52.80   1,467.60                   749.00   749.00          718.60
08/09           1,435.70   56.10   1,491.80                   753.00   753.00          738.80
09/10           1,447.30   59.40   1,506.70                   757.90   757.90          748.80
10/11           1,449.10   62.70   1,511.80                   765.10   765.10          746.70
11/12           1,430.70   66.00   1,496.70                   768.90   768.90          727.80
12/13           1,476.80   69.30   1,546.10                   763.10   763.10          783.00
13/14           1,480.10   72.60   1,552.70                   786.20   786.20          766.50
14/15           1,483.50   75.90   1,559.40                   783.40   783.40          776.00
15/16           1,409.60    79.20   1,488.80                  778.90   778.90          709.90
16/17           1,429.90   82.50   1,512.40                   738.60   738.60          773.80
17/18           1,364.50    85.80   1,450.30                  744.80   744.80          705.50
18/19           1,371.50   89.10   1,460.60                   746.20   746.20          714.40
19/20           1,374.70   92.40   1,467.10                   746.30   746.30          720.80
)RP- .0 00      14%
1/ Aggregation of all representative incremental agricultural production, fodder, fuelwood, timber, and relative forest products.
2/ Assuming 0.5% production decline (in without project situation) saved by project; sane as SAR assumption.
3/ Total project cost including beneficiaries' contribution estimated at 4% of costs incurred by project offices.
4/ O&M at farm level required to produce the assumed benefits.
6R



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Cr.2131 -IN/Ln.3197-IN)
APPENDIX C
APPROACHES AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT AND
MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT CONCEPT AND STRATEGY
1.        The central theme and concept of the Integrated Watershed Development Project
(IWDP) was to manage and use natural plant, land and water resources for agricultural and forest
production within naturally defined watershed boundaries. Such a development approach was
complex and state Governments and their staff were at early stage of acceptance and adoption of this
concept. Moreover, the knowledge and experience in implementation of such a strategic approach by
government staff was generally limited and such an approach was beyond the experience and
understanding of local communities.
2.        Given the evolving concept of watershed development and limited experience, the
strategy adopted for implementation and achieving the objectives of this project included the
following elements:
(i)    Constitution of a watershed planning and coordination organisation, at the apex level in
each of the three states.
(ii)   Establishment of three supporting committees, one at state level (State Project
Implementation and Review Committee), one at district level (District Watershed
Development Committee) and one at watershed level (Watershed Development
Committee).
(iii)  Project staff to be supported with technical field staff drawn from the line departments of
Soil Conservation, Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry and Animal Husbandry.
(iv)  Improved land management practices to be identified and introduced to enable cost
effective, replicable and sustainable improvements in soil and water conservation.
(v)   Interventions implemented in project areas to respond to people's needs and local land
capability.
(vi)   Major emphasis to be given to improvement of rainfed agriculture, but care also taken to
include all lands in need of treatment irrespective of ownership (Private/ Public/ Common
lands).
(vii)  Project staff, watershed dwellers and officers of line departments to be involved in
participatory planning.
69



(viii) Care to be taken to obtain agreements with watershed dwellers at all stages of
development and care taken to meet the interest of different groups of land users,
including the resource poor and women.
(ix)   Extensive training to be imparted on different aspects of watershed development,
including the capacity building of the watershed dwellers.
(x)   A number of field trials and experiments to be conducted for fine-tuning of technologies
to be introduced and promoted under the project.
(xi)  Periodic visits to be undertaken by supervision missions of the Bank and Government to
project areas to provide on the spot guidance and mid-course corrections were,
particularly at the time of mid-term-review of the project.
B. PLANNING
3.        Watershed development planning was based on an initial collection of all available basic
information on natural resources, water and vegetation in the state as a whole, followed by the
selection of the most suitable watershed areas in four districts of each of three states. Using base line
survey or GIS (wherever facilities were available, i.e. in Rajasthan) information, the natural
boundaries of macro- and micro-watersheds were identified and demarcated and central drainage
lines identified. Depending on land capability classes, suitable activities, including vegetative
hedges planted on contours, construction of V ditches on contours for establishment of tree
plantation, fruit trees, silvipasture and multi-tier canopy cover, pasture seeding, drainage line
treatment and water harvesting structures, etc. were decided to be taken up in project areas. The
views of beneficiaries were given due consideration while deciding the range of activities to be
under taken on private/public/common lands. The participation of NGOs took some time to
establish and therefore at most of the places they were not involved in the planning process. After
identifying the range of activities proposed, project staff executed the work programme, with
technical assistance from persons drawn on deputation from line departments. Though there was
scope for flexibility in the project interventions proposed in the SAR, plans were followed strictly
to fulfil the targets up till the "Mid Term Review". After the "mid-term review" more flexibility
in planning and execution of suitable programmes was introduced and consequently programmes
reflected a demand-driven rather than supply-driven and target oriented approach.
C. WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT WORKS
4.        A wide range of activities was undertaken to develop watershed areas using a holistic
approach. Broadly this included (i) treatment of non-arable land in the upper watershed, (ii) treatment
of natural drainage lines, (iii) rainwater management, and (iv) on farm development.
Treatment of Non-arable Lands in the Upper Watersheds
5.        Rehabilitation of degraded forest. According to the information made available to the
mission members, 27,100, 193 and 1,900 ha of degraded forest was rehabilitated in Orissa, Gujarat
and Rajasthan states, respectively, under this activity. Work done to rehabilitate degraded forest in
70



Phulbani district (a tribal area in Orissa), on 60-70 percent slope, was worth appreciating. Important
tree species planted included, sal, (Shorea robusta), Jafra (Bixa orelluna), Cassia siamea and teak
(Tectona grandis). The percentage survival of planted trees was 70 to 85% in Orissa. Planted forest
trees were one to six years old and too young to yield any substantial forest products. However, some
minor produce like Jafra seeds, sal seeds, sal leaves, twigs, etc. are now being collected from forest
areas. Cases of sporadic illicit felling of trees in some of the villages have been reported. However, in
Gujarat and Rajasthan, the impact of reafforestation activities was not visible and survival percentage
of planted trees was low (15 to 40 %). This may have been the result of harsh weather conditions and
high animal pressure, which in the absence of mechanical, live or social fencing, resulted in damage
by stray cattle.
6.        Multi-tree plantation/multi-tier canopy cover. The area covered under this activity
was 19,600, 19,800 and 20,700 ha in Orissa, Gujarat and Rajasthan states, respectively. Important
tree species planted in Orissa were teak, Dalbergia sissoo, eucalyptus, Cassia siamea bamboo and
custard apple and in Gujarat and Rajasthan were Dalbergia sissoo, custard apple, Albizzia lebbek,
Acacia sp. and bamboo (in high rainfall area only). The survival percentage in Orissa State has been
55 to 71% whereas in Guj arat and Rajasthan states it was only 40-5 0 percent. Village committees
have been constituted for the maintenance of assets created and in some villages, arrangements
have been made for watch and ward to protect plantations from stray cattle. Some benefits (gum
from Acacia and dried tree & loppings from fodder trees) have started flowing from these
plantations to village communities.
7.        Silvipasture development. The area covered under silvipasture in Orissa, Gujarat and
RajasthLan states was 2,700, 5,900 and 27,000 ha, respectively. In Orissa, tree species introduced in
silvipasture systems were Acacia sp., Cassia siamea and Leucaena leucocephela (Subabool) and
pasture species were Stylosanthes hamata, Pennisetum purpurem (hybrid napier), Cenchrus ciliaris
and Cenchrus setigeris. The percentage survival of tree species was 60-88%. In Orissa pasture
development was not impressive in Phulbani (a tribal district) due to the fact that the cattle are let
loose ]For most of the year and tribal communities are not in the habit of using cut and carry
methodls of forage production and collection. By contrast, silvipasture development was quite
successful in other districts.
8.        In Gujarat and Rajasthan, the planted trees/shrubs were Acacia sp., Cassia sp., and local
ber (Zizyphus zuzuba) and pasture species sown were Cenchrus ciliaris and Stylosanthes hamata. The
survival percentage of trees was well below 50 per cent, due to heavy animal grazing pressure and
damage by stray cattle from neighbouring villages. Overgrazing of the pasture component was
also a serious problem. In a few villages, village committees have been able to introduce the
practice of cut and carry systems. Some 1.0-1.5 ton/ha of dry grass is being harvested and sold.
Since silvipasture systems have been developed on panchayat/revenue land, income generated
from the sale of grass is being deposited in accounts with the Village committees for further
development and maintenance of common assets created under the project.
9.        Seeding of natural pasture. Seeding of native pasture was done on 1,700, 840 and 7,100
ha in Orissa, Gujarat and Rajasthan states, respectively. In Orissa it was far below the target fixed
under SAR. Almost the same pasture species were used for seeding of natural pasture as used in
silvipasture systems. Here again due to heavy animal grazing pressure and in the absence of
71



mechanical/vegetative fencing, the establishment of good pasture was jeopardised at most places.
Also the practice of rotational/deferred grazing and cut and carry system were not commonly used at
most places. In Rajasthan some of the farmers have also tried to establish pasture on their private
land, but due to the harsh climatic conditions, the impact was not visible.
10.       Rehabilitation of shifting cultivation. Only in Orissa State, and that only in Phulbani
district in one watershed (Khajuripada), has work on stabilising shifting cultivation been taken up.
However, only 163 ha, against a target of 655 ha have been developed. However, the outcome has
not been very successful, perhaps because local tribal communities have not been adequately
oriented/motivated for this activity.
11.       Rehabilitation of saline/alkali lands. Against a target of 8,640 ha about 10,330 ha of
saline/alkali barren land has been reclaimed and brought under vegetation in Rajasthan State. A
combination of Acacia sp. and Cenchrus sp. have been established on these soils, after deep
ploughing and use of soil amendments (sulphuric acid or gypsum). The outcome has been remarkably
successful 1.
Treatment of Natural Drainage Lines
12.       In all four watersheds in Orissa State and in relatively high rainfall areas and on sloping
land in Rajasthan State (Udaipur and Bhilwara districts) natural drainage lines pose a great soil
erosion problem. During the pilot phase only 25% of the project cost was earmarked for drainage line
treatments, but judging the gravity of the problem during the MTR, the project cost for drainage line
treatment was increased to 35%. Drainage line treatments included:
- brushwood/vegetative stabilisation
* minor masonry structure/loose rock check dams
 earthen run-off and medium masonry structures
- water storage structures
13.       Brush wood/vegetative stabilisation. It was generally found that brushwood check
dams were not effective as either brushwood was stolen for fuel or was eaten away by white ants.
However, in Orissa live vegetative check dams constructed with vetiver grass were successful. In
Gujarat and Rajasthan the planting of twigs of Ipomea, a highly adaptable plant in varied agro-
climatic conditions and developing good roots and good plant cover, was also found to be a better
option than brushwood alone. In low rainfall areas the adoption of this practice does not seem to be
high due to scarcity of wood logs and poor establishment of vegetation.
14.       Minor masonry structure/loose rock check dams. In all hilly areas of Orissa, Gujarat,
and Rajasthan, this type of structure was found to be highly cost-effective. In Orissa, the planting of
vetiver or Hill broom at the bottom and side of the gullies together with loose rock dams was found
to be highly effective in stabilizing long gullies. In Rajasthan and Gujarat, loose rock with Gabion
'The "IWDP Bhilwara" received a prestigious "Rajiv Gandhi Parti Bhumi Mitra Award (Rajiv Gandhi Fallow Land
Friendship Award) 1994-96" from the Department of Watershed Development, Ministry of Rural Development,
Government of India for the work executed to reclaim saline/alkali lands by sulphuric acid treatment.
72



structure was found to be highly effective when located upstream of medium masonry structures. The
loose rock/gabion structures reduced silt load in downstream water and increased storage capacity
and life of medium masonry structures located downstream. Also it was seen in Rajasthan (Udaipur
and Ajmer districts) that within a 2-3 year period, areas immediately upstream of these loose rock
structures became levelled and provided lateral spread of water and recharge of ground waters
upstream.
15.       Earthen runoff and medium masonry structures. Earthen runoff structures usually
constructed at the downstream end of gullies were found to be very popular amongst the farmers of
all project areas. The retention of water by these structures has not only provided drinking water to
animals during dry spells but has recharged ground waters, increased moisture regime of the
downstream fields, provided additional water for supplemental irrigation and controlled runoff water
and soil erosion. The rises in water tables in adjoining 'dug wells', has increased the irrigated area
around these structures and allowed the cultivation of high-value horticultural and forage crops.
16.       Water storage structures. The construction of spillways and water diversion structures
(about ] ,400 water storage structures have been constructed in Orissa state alone) on natural drainage
lines in all project areas has also resulted in increased irrigated area and crop intensification and
diversification of agriculture (inclusion of off-season vegetable cultivation).
Rain Water Management
17.       In high rainfall areas, low interception of rainwater and high runoff is a serious problem.
Even in low rainfall areas (as low as 300 mm annual rainfall), one or two heavy rainfall events result
in high runoff losses. Various water harvesting structures were therefore constructed to intercept
natural rainwater runoff, such as village ponds, tanks, dug wells and a local structure called
"Tanka" and other water storage structures.
18.       Village ponds/tanks/dug wells/TANKA. In all three states this activity received very high
appreciation from farmers. In Orissa, the quality of dug out ponds/tanks was found to be very good.
In evety state farmers were enthusiastic in constructing their own dug wells. These structures have
not only provided supplemental irrigation but have also increased the irrigated area in all project
areas. In Jodhpur district of Rajasthan State, receiving about 300 mm annual rainfall, farmers
have collected rainwater from their fields and stored this in specially constructed underground
wells, known as "Tanka". These structures are covered to check evaporation and the precious
water is used for providing life-saving irrigation to high value horticultural crops and for drinking
purposes.
19.       Water storage structures. The best example of rainwater harvesting and storing for
future use was in Rajasthan, known locally as KHADEEN. Under this practice rainwater is stored in
foothills or in low-lying fallow land during rainy season. Such structures recharge the soil profile
below the slope and also when entrapped rainwater recedes, rabi crops are sown in the water
harvesting structure and this water is also used for irrigating rabi crops in adjoining areas. Besides
these structures, anicuts are also being used to arrest the flow of rainwater and to recharge soil
profiles to improve the soil moisture regime for a longer period after the cessation of seasonal rains.
73



On Farm Development
20.       Vegetative hedge. The planting of vegetative hedges on contours was the largest
component of the various activities undertaken on arable land. The rainfed crop area to be protected
by vegetative hedges in Orissa, Gujarat and Rajasthan states, was 19,500, 97,900 and 64,500 ha,
respectively. However, extremely variable success was obtained. In Orissa, the establishment of
vetiver grass as a vegetative hedge on arable land combined with construction of V ditches was quite
successful with greater than 60% survival achieved because of good rainfall. Surveys have indicated
that this practice has resulted in between 18-90% reduction in runoff under different slope and
rainfall situations. Reduction in soil loss was also rated to be good (about 55%) and yield increase in
test crops were between 16 to 40%. However, in Gujarat and Rajasthan at most locations, vegetative
hedges, particularly vetiver, did not do well and vegetative hedges alone were found to be inadequate
in providing any major boost to crop productivity. Possibly this was because of low and uncertain
rainfall and relatively level topography. After MTR other local grasses (Saccharum munja and
Dicanthium) were tried as vegetative hedges. These performed somewhat better than vetiver. It is still
hoped that if properly established, vegetative hedges with suitable/local grasses may well exert direct
and significant impact on crop yields in these lower rainfall areas.
21.       Alley cropping/farm forestry. A reasonably large area (13,300 ha in Orissa, 12,700 ha
in Rajasthan and 7,900 ha in Gujarat) has been covered under this activity. However, the impact of
alley cropping/farm forestry was not visible in any of the three states. As a whole, the percentage
survival of planted trees on contours in arable cropping areas was very low. Even in Orissa State with
good rainfall (1200-1500 mm) tree survival was only 22-24%. Tree species planted in Orissa were
teak, Albizzia lebbek, leucaena (subabool) and Cassia siamea. In the other two states, more drought
resistant species, Acacia species, subabool or neem, were tried, but tree survival was also poor (less
than 30%). Beneficiaries in all watersheds have not taken much interest to maintain these planted
trees. Maybe this is a consequence of alley cropping not being a traditional practice in the past. Also
stray cattle have damaged the young trees because in rainfed area farmers let their cattle loose for
grazing after harvesting their crops.
22.       Crop demonstration. Rainfed crop demonstrations were conducted on lands treated
with vegetative contour hedges, in accordance with the guidelines laid down in SAR. Most of the
crop demonstrations were in the form of "demonstration kits", which included seed of improved crop
varieties and small doses of chemical fertilizer. The "demonstration kits" were supplied to the
Agricultural Extension Departments under project support. Other demonstration operations, i.e.
contour ploughing, weed control, inter-cultivation on contour, etc., were undertaken by farmers.
Yield gains in paddy, maize, pulses and mustard in Orissa State ranged from 10 to 30% above
traditional practices. In Rajasthan State, yield gains in project areas were about 30-40% higher, in
case of pearl millet and pulses, and 22% higher in the case of maize, over non-project areas. During
the project period, the area covered under crop demonstrations was 12,960 ha in Orissa, 9,540 ha in
Gujarat and 4,547 ha in Rajasthan states. Specific studies on the uptake and continued maintenance
of these improved practices were not conducted, but other data (average crop yields) would suggest
that only a small proportion of farmers maintained these improved practices.
23.       Mixed horticulture. A significant project impact on dryland horticulture was only
evident in Orissa State, where rainfall is high (1200-1500 mm). About 11,800 ha was planted to
74



mango (Mangifera indica), guava (Psidium guajava), cashew nut (Anacardium occidentale), jackfruit
(Artocarpus heterophyllus), ber (Zizyphus sp.), lime (Citrus aurantium) and custard apple (Annona
squamosa). The survival of fruit and nut tree seedlings was 60-90%, the highest survival being in
cashew and lowest in mango. Progeny orchards were established for mango, cashew and guava.
Cashew plantations established in 1992-93 have started bearing fruits from the 1996-97 season and
have done better than other fruit crops. With protective irrigation in selected water harvesting areas,
farmers have introduced off-season vegetables (tomato, cabbage cucumber, cauliflower and brinjal)
for higher economic returns. In Phulbani district of Orissa, banana cultivation has also been
introduced with protective irrigation from water harvesting structures.
24.       By contrast, in Rajasthan and Gujarat states, dry land horticulture did not do well, but
with protective irrigation performance was good to very good. About 3,195 ha area has been brought
under mixed horticulture in Rajasthan and major fruit crops introduced were amla (Emalica
officinalis), ber, custard apple, guava, pomegranate (Punica granatum) and lime. At several places
farmers are growing lucerne as a green fodder or high value crop species mixed with irrigated
horticultural crops. Survival percentage of fruit trees under supplementary irrigation, was quite high
(80-90%) due to efficient methods of irrigation adopted. In Gujarat about 1,700 ha area has been
brought under horticultural crops including vegetables and most of this area is under protective
irrigation. Important fruit crops tried were sapota (Manilkara achras), mango, cashew, jackfruit,
guava and lime, with good to very good survival (75-80%). However, in both these states insufficient
attention has been given to other soil moisture conservation practices, viz., contour bunding, V ditch
construction, mulching etc., in irrigated horticultural crops.
25.       Animal husbandry development. In Rajasthan State, the concept of Gopal (para-
veterinary) services introduced in project areas received very high appreciation from beneficiaries.
Artificial insemination in cows, castration of undesirable bulls, progeny improvement programme in
cattle, sheep and goat, and vaccination against important livestock diseases were some of the
activities undertaken in watershed areas by Gopals at a very nominal cost. Introduction of seed of
high yielding varieties of sorghum, oats and lucerne in these areas have benefited from additional
irrigation water derived from water harvesting structures constructed under the project. Even in
rainfed project areas, the availability of grass and fodder from pasture, silvipasture and MTC also
helped in improving the availability of forage/fodder for livestock and added to the improvement of
the livestock sector.
D. BENEFITS
Natural Resources
26.       The overall performance of the project, in terms of its objectives to slow down and
reverse the degradation of natural environment (i.e. reduce soil erosion and improve water resources
and vegetative cover), can be rated to be good to very good in all project areas in the three states.
Individual studies at specific locations have shown significant benefits. However, there has been no
comprehensive area-wide assessment of the improvement of natural resources throughout project
areas. With the adoption of various soil and water conservation and rainwater harvesting practices,
average soil loss per ha has been reduced. Selected studies in Rajasthan (silt observation posts) have
indicated that average soil loss per ha has declined from 1.63 t/ha in 1992-93 to 0.125 t/ha in 1996-
97. Studies in Orissa State have found that the range of silt deposited in V ditches varied from 10-28
75



cm at different locations, which indicated that reduction in soil loss was substantial. In another study
conducted in Orissa, reduction in soil loss was found to be 56-57%.
27.        Studies at selected sites in Rajasthan have indicated that rainfall runoff decreased from
66.16 mm in the pre-project period to 23.94 mm in 1996-97. Similarly, in the Khajuripada watershed
(Phulbani district) in Orissa, which receives 1500 mm of annual rainfall, the reduction in runoff
compared to untreated areas was 18.9%. Selected measurements of increase in level of water tables
(0.85-3.5 meters) in project areas in all three states further supports the general findings that runoff
loss has been substantially reduced and that increased water infiltration into the soil profile has
resulted in increase in water table in dug wells. Furthermore, as a result of increased water supplies
from dug wells and from water harvesting structures created under the project, an additional 10,419
ha in Rajasthan, 8,253 ha in Orissa and 3,137 ha in Gujarat have been brought under irrigated
farming, with crop yield gains up to 50-80% higher than rainfed crops.
28.        Natural vegetation also has recovered and vegetative cover has increased as a result of
increased availability of soil moisture, reduction in soil loss and decline in soil fertility, and from
reafforestation activities undertaken in project areas. Based on a pilot study conducted in Bhilwara
district in Rajasthan, it was evident that there has been positive change in vegetation cover from the
pre-project to post-project period. Satellite imagery analysis has shown that dense vegetation in this
district has increased from 1,591 ha in 1990 to 2,667 ha in 1995. Besides this there has been sizable
increase in area under tree plantations in all watersheds. In time, fuelwood and timber will become
available from established MTC and silvipasture systems, which will result in reduction in
indiscriminate felling of trees for timber and fuelwood. All these interventions will further increase
and preserve the natural plant resources in project areas.
Agricultural Production
29.        As stated earlier, with the planting of vegetative hedges on V ditches in Orissa State and
in high rainfall areas in Rajasthan and Gujarat, the productivity of rainfed crops has increased by 10-
30%. Also under crop demonstrations, the adoption of improved crop varieties and slight increases in
fertilizer consumption has increased yields of paddy in Orissa and pearl millet, maize and pulses in
Gujarat and Rajasthan by 10-40%. With the development of water storage structures, changes in
cropping patterns have emerged in irrigated areas in favour of higher value horticultural and forage
crops. Protective irrigation to traditional crops like paddy in Orissa and to cotton, pearl millet,
groundnut, wheat and mustard in Gujarat and Rajasthan, have resulted in 50-80% increases in yield
over rainfed crops.
30.        The sizeable increase in area under tree plantations, silvipasture and seeded natural
pasture in all watersheds has increased the availability of grass and tree fodder. The yield of dry grass
and fodder from silvipasture and pastures is estimated to be as high as 1.0-1.5 ton/ha, which in due
course of time may further increase. Furthermore, multipurpose products and by products (timber,
fuel, fodder, gum, sal leaves etc.) from MTC and forest plantations will start flowing for the benefit
of village communities.
76



E. TECHNICAL LESSONS LEARNED
31.       The assessment of technologies introduced and supported under the project have resulted
in a number of experiential lessons:
. Vetiver grass was introduced in all the watersheds of three states without collecting
information on its ecological requirements. Experience shows that it did well on medium
to fine textured soils in Orissa State under high rainfall, but did not establish on sandy
soils and under low rainfall situations in Gujarat and Rajasthan states. Therefore, it is
essential to undertake multi-location testing before introducing and promoting the wide-
scale planting of new plant species
* GISs were not established early in the project, particularly in Orissa and Gujarat, thus they
were not used in initial project planning, which resulted in imperfect planning in certain
watersheds.
* Under MTC and forestry programme a more suitable mix of tree species should be
introduced that can provide short, medium and long term returns to beneficiaries
 The technical programme was not flexible prior to the project "mid term review" It should
have been more flexible been modified according to local needs and aspirations of
beneficiaries.
* The emphasis placed on developing the capability of staff working exclusively for a
specific project by providing staff training at all levels was a good lesson learned from this
project.
- Another good lesson learned was the benefit to project implementation and success as a
result of generally good coordination amongst officers of different line departments,
NGOs and beneficiaries.
- Recognition of the importance of drainage line treatment in a watershed project was
central to the success of the project.
. The project design has been a generally excellent model for overall development and use
of natural plant, land and water resources for agricultural and forest production within
naturally defined watershed boundaries. After removing some shortcomings, this design
should be adopted in other watershed development programmes in India and elsewhere.
F. FUTURE STRATEGIES
32.       From the experiences gained in this project, there are a number of strategic measures that
should be adopted in designing any future project concerned with watershed development.
(a) A GIS should be established prior to project effectiveness as an important tool to identify
natural boundaries of watersheds and for provision of comprehensive information on
77



natural resources in order to obtain advance information for systematic and timely
planning of project interventions.
(b)  User's groups should be formed in advance of project start-up and NGOs should be
identified and involved right from the beginning of the project planning stage.
(c)  The concept and strategy of the project and duties and responsibilities should be
explained to the user's groups, NGOs as well as to the participating officers/agencies at
the planning stage and they should be involved at every stage of execution.
(d)  Monitoring of physical progress and impact evaluation should be done in a quantitative
way and measurements on soil, nutrient and water losses should be assessed periodically.
(e)  In addition to emphasis on increasing agricultural production, due attention and
emphasis should be given to value addition and marketing of produce from project areas.
(f)  Other activities relating to "Human Resource Development" (provision of community
health programmes, drinking water facilities, roads, etc.) and gainful employment to the
dwellers of project areas should find a place in project activities.
(g)  Livestock, being an important component of agriculture and in natural resource use,
should receive greater attention, particularly in relation to the issues of livestock density
policy and overgrazing of natural plant resources.
(h)  Local wisdom and use of local materials should find a more prominent place in the
technical programme.
(i)  Regional research stations should be fully involved and given responsibilities for
refining location specific and needs-based technology before its promotion and adoption
on large scale in project areas.
(j) The issue of sustainability of investments made in such a complex project should receive
greater attention by all concerned agencies.
78



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX D: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
79






INDIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(Cr.2131-IN/Ln.3197-IN)
(MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE)
Objectives, design and scope of the Project:
Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project (IWDP-plains) was implemented in
three States of the country viz., Gujrat, Orissa and Rajasthan during 1990-91 to 31.03.99 at a
total cost of US $ 71.64 million. A total number of twelve watersheds, encompassing an area of
433, 498 ha. (four watersheds in each of the 3 States) were treated during the period. The project
was initially designed for a three year pilot phase (1990-91 to 1993-94), which was subsequently
followed by a four year expansion (1993-94 to 31.03.99) phase after a Mid Term Review (MTR).
During pre MTR period, the project activities were executed in an area of 37,130 ha., comprising
pilot areas selected in each of the twelve watersheds. In the post MTR period (expansion phase
of the project), the project activities were continued in the pilot areas, targeted for execution
during initial phase and as well introduced in an additional area of 396, 368 ha.
The IWDP (Plains) was an innovative project designed primarily by the World Bank in
consultation with the participating states envisaging government agencies to execute a project
concentrating on environmental regeneration with people orientation & seeking inter-
institutional collaboration. Centered around the prime theme of arresting environmental
degradation through peoples involvement and strengthening of inter-institutional linkages the
main project objectives were to:
i)    Introduce improved and sustainable land management practices in selected
watersheds through promotion of cost-effective and replicable conservation
technologies.
ii)    Adopt institutional arrangements to facilitate inter-agency coordination in
watershed planning and implementation.
iii)   Ensure full participation of watershed land users in the development and
management of common properties.
The aforesaid objectives were planned to be achieved through implementation of
following components:
i)    watershed development works
ii)   technical support
81



iii)  training and technical assistance
iv)   project implementation support
The project objectives were quite realistic and appropriate to the needs for improving
management of natural resources of the country following a holistic approach of protection and
production and were in consonance with the Government policy to improve the collective
capability of government agencies for implementing integrated watershed management
programmes for sustainable food production and environmental security.
The project design was quite commensurate with the project objectives and conducive for
achieving set goals. However, the emphasis on vegetative measures in the absence of well
established location specific technologies, constrained the fulfillment of productivity goals in the
initial phase of the project especially with regard to on-farm treatments, the vegetative hedges
alone was found insufficient to provide major boost to crop productivity. Moreover, the
establishment of vegetative barriers through Vetiver plantation was found difficult in the states
of Gujrat and Rajasthan due to low and uncertain rainfall and relatively flat topographic terrain
conditions. Though, enough scope was provided in the design for tapping other sources of
productivity growth by promoting bio-chemical and other agronomic practices, the same could
not be properly tapped since the design did not specifically emphasize linkage with the existing
extension as well as input supply mechanism.
The issue of linkages of vegetative treatments with adaptive research is an another
important issue requiring mention. While it was well conceived in the project design that
adaptive research would test out some of the vegetative treatments during pilot phase before
adoption on a larger scale during expansion phase, no adequate provision to ensure that adaptive
research actually works as a precursor to finalization of treatment plans, was provided during
expansion phase. Resultantly, the cases wherein adaptive research took longer time than
envisaged, the project did not make any alternate arrangement for certain critical experiments,
that could have given some tentative results to guide formulation of treatment plans. Non
establishment of sequential link between adaptive research and finalization of the treatment
plans, presumably, led to reduced thrust on adaptive research activities.
Animal husbandry component, which could have been used as an entry point programme
for mobilizing peoples interest in the project, was included in the project design at a much later
stage in the states of Gujrat and Orissa. Likewise, limited provision and sequencing of water
harvesting structures, in the initial phase ,also worked as a major limiting factor for mobilizing
people's participation into the project. Notwithstanding the technical soundness of the project, a
participatory and people oriented project should have provided sufficient scope for interaction
and negotiation with the beneficiaries for whom these are priority components.
The constructive approach of the Bank Supervision and the flexibility introduced in the
design to change and introduce new project interventions following mid-term review were quite
helpful in overcoming the bottlenecks conceived in the initial design and were substantial factors
in satisfactory outcome of the project. However, the improvements made to the modalities of
implementation, technology choice and type of technical support required, if existed in the initial
phase, would have improved project impact and outcome.
82



The size of the project was quite appropriate and commensurate with the targeted time.
Project Appraisal.
The Development credit (DCA) was revised during project implementation to:
i)   increase the disbursement percentages, with effect from December 5, 1991.
ii)   expand the livestock development programme to additionally include project
areas in Gujarat and Orissa States (March 17, 1995).
iii)  approve two additional project districts in Orissa State (February 21, 1997.
The changes made in DCA, have helped the implementing agencies in smooth execution
of the programmes and mobilization of beneficiaries for greater involvement in the project
activities.
Project Implementation:
Performance of Implementation Agencies:
The project offered a new kind of experience in terms of carrying only government
programme in a supply driven mode. The idea of the implementing agencies in the initial phase
was to try out particular models worked out with the experience of technical experts working
with the World Bank through Government machinery. The experimental design of the models
was kept more or less intact despite fairly good scope for a 'flexible approach' provided in the
project. This resulted in a situation where the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) became more of a
strict set of directives rather than guidelines to achieve the final goals of the project.
Notwithstanding the difficulties experienced by the implementing states in the initial
phase, the project has been successfully implemented in tune with the basic philosophy and
approach of the project. One of the constraining factors has been inter-agency coordination. The
delay in finalizationof ToR's for State Agricultural Universities and NGO's have created major
block in smooth implementation of projects in the initial phase since the inputs from both these
agencies had to precede the formulation of treatment plans. Another missing link in terms of
inter-agency coordination was linkage with the line departments especially with revenue and
forest departments for obtaining non-arable land for treatment under the project. The projects'
efforts, however, eventually succeeded in getting the Government resolutions thus making the
implementation smoother, but nevertheless some opportunities for treating the community lands
were lost.
Implementation of IWDP project has been an important learning experience for the state
implementing agencies which obviously involved certain costs in terms of avoidable errors. The
83



project, however, had made adequate provisions for the implementing agencies to build in-house
capacity. Some of the important aspects of capacity building were
a)    working  in  an  interactive  and  experimental mode  which  necessitates
administrative flexibility.
b)    adopt participatory processes for project planning and implementation.
c)    collaboration with NGOs.
d)    seek help from external experts including those from the line departments.
e)    operate through markets for purchase of planting material/input.
f)    undertake in-house monitoring and evaluation.
During the course of implementation, the executing agencies made positive efforts to
attain most of these aspects, though with varying degree of actual accomplishment. Few
important observations relevant in the context relate to administrative flexibility, establishment
of linkages with the line departments, linkages with NGOs and development of internal
monitoring system to ensure better outcome rather than merely completing the targets.
Lack of continuity at the level of top leadership, lack of expert staff on certain key
positions, restructuring of field level officers, strict adherence to procedural hierarchies, absence
of any kind of incentive for field staff to undertake innovative activities, mismatch between
reasonality involved in Soil & Water Conservation works and the decision making process for
release of funds, etc. are some of the factors which affected the actual outcome of the project in
the initial phase.   Another important aspect pertains to establishing linkages with line
departments and strengthening in-house capabilities. The policy of getting staff on deputation,
which took much longer time than anticipated in certain cases, attributed to discontinuities rather
than building in-house capacity. Equally important was the issue of linkages with NGOs.
Whereas, the collaborative model was fairly well visualized, in practice it meant only marginal
partnership whereby NGOs were left with job of sales promoter without any say in the
preparation of treatment plans or the time schedule, etc. This eventually created a situation,
wherein NGOs started losing their credibility with people resulting into a situation where many
of the NGO activities remained disjointed from projects intervention in the villages.
The issue of developing internal monitoring system is another worth mentioning aspect.
A proper monitoring system could not be developed due to inadequate staff and short duration
appointment of consultants. Secondly, the system continued to remain hierarchical, lacking
openness in terms of free flow of information. Resultantly, the monitoring was more target
oriented in terms of area covered rather than concentrating on substantial benefits to the farmers.
Notwithstanding the aforesaid limitations in the initial phase of the project, the
implementation was quite satisfactory in the later stages. The overall impact of NGOs in the
project has, however, been very small with varied experiences of NGO involvement in different
States.
84



Performance of IDA:
The performance of bank has been very satisfactory during the implementation of the
project involving high level of supervision and monitoring. In all eleven supervision missions
and the mid-term review, were undertaken during project implementation. Two missions
concerned specifically with monitoring and evaluation of the project implementation. The
deficiencies in the implementation indicated in the mission reports based on detailed reviews of
the project implementation, provided helpful constructive advice to overcome the problems
being faced by the implementing authorities in the initial stages. The bank has also shown fairly
good amount of flexibility in agreeing to extend investment into additionally included areas and
re-allocate funds into additional activities, which were required for mobilizing people's
participation especially after the mid-term review.
Project Results:
Watershed Development Works:
a)    On -Farm Development:
The success achieved in establishment of Contour Vegetative Hedges (CVH) in different
States has been variable. Vetiver grass, has shown good performance in Orissa state
whereas in other states it did not perform well, presumably, because of low rainfall
conditions in the States. Local grasses viz Cenchrus ciliaris, Saccharum munja and
Dicanthium sp., etc. which were tried after mid-term review did much better in Rajasthan
and Gujarat. Dry land horticulture was quite successful in Orissa and partially successful
in other States.
b)    Development of non-arable Community lands:
There has been variation in success of different activities in different states. Performance
of Multi Tier Canopy (MTC) was very good in Orissa and fairly good in other states.
Pasture component did not do well in almost all the states owing, primarily to the
immense biotic pressure and secondly to non-adoption of rotational grazing and cut and
carry system by farmers. Silvi-pasture component was preferred by the local community
than pasture development in all the states. Land stabilization in upper watersheds on
non-arable lands was associated with government forested lands and as well on
community lands (village common lands) which are used for cattle grazing and fuel-
wood collection. Rehabilitation of natural forest on government land was carried out in
around 27000 ha area in Orissa. The areas covered in other states were much lesser
(1900 ha in Rajasthan and 193 ha in Gujarat).
On community lands, nearly 20000 trees (mixed species) were planted in MTC in every
state with gap filling undertaken during subsequent year.  Around 27000 ha of
community lands have been covered under tree and pasture species in Rajasthan State
under Silvi-pasture programme. The performance of Stylonthesis hamata and Cenchrus
ciliaris has been excellent in the State. The coverage under Silvi-culture programme has
85



been relatively lesser in other states (5900 ha in Gujarat and 2700 ha in Orissa). Pasture
seeding has also been undertaken in all the three States, but due to uncontrolled grazing
by livestock, lack of closures and unfavourable climatic conditions, only partial success
has been achieved.
c)    Stabilization of Natural Drainage Lines:
Drainage  Line  Treatment  (DLT)  works  included  construction  of:  :  i)
brushwood/vegetative stabilizing structures, ii) minor masonry structure/loose rock
check dams, iii) earthen run-off and medium masonry structures and iv) water storage
structures. Brushwood check dams were not effective as either the brush-wood was
stolen for fuel-wood or was eaten by white ants. Live vegetative structures were found to
be more effective in higher rainfall areas. In Orissa State, Vetiver grass was found to be
very effective in preventing erosion on steep slopes, while Ipomea species were found
effective in Gujarat and Rajasthan states. In all the hilly areas of Orissa, Gujarat, and
Rajasthan, minor masonry and loose rock check dams were found to be highly cost-
effective. Check dams were quite effective in reducing slit load in downstrearn medium
masonry structures .In Rajasthan state(Udaipur and Ajmer districts) these structures
leveled the land surface, within a two to three year period ,thereby providing improved
lateral spread of water and recharge of ground waters in upstream  areas.   The
construction of earthen run-off structures and concrete diversion structures on drainage
courses has resulted in increased area under irrigation in the adjacent private fields for
growing fruits and vegetables.
The impact of DLT works and vegetative measures in the watersheds was visible in the
form of substantial reduction in soil loss and run-off. The reduction in soil loss and run-
off has been to the extent of 92% and 53% respectively in Rajasthan State and around
56% and 19-27% in Orissa State.
d)   Live Stock Development:
As mentioned above the component was introduced at a later stage at least in two States.
The project support under the component included demonstration of on-farm fodder
production (sorghum and leuceme) in all the States and introduction of paraveterinary
services in Rajasthan. The programme of introducing paraveterinarians termed as
'Gopals' was highly appreciated by local people. The programmes undertaken under the
component included castration of scrub bulls, artificial insemination, progeny
improvement and vaccination against prevailing deseases at a nominal cost.
e)   Establishment of Nurseries:
A good number of nurseries (Rajasthan- 1600, Gujarat- 246 and Orissa- 123) were
established under the project for providing tree seedlings for rehabilitation of natural
forest, MTC plantations ,silvipasture systems and CVH plantations. Capacity of the local
community to produce seedling material was also developed by involving them in
establishment of Nursery.
86



i) Water Harvesting Structures:
Rainwater management through construction of water harvesting structures (WHS) is
rated to be good to very good in the states. An impact of the activity of WHS is visible in
terms of increased yield of water from wells in the surrounding areas resulting into
increase in irrigated area and crop diversification by inclusion of high value horticulture
crops.
g)   Other Activities:
Reserve fund provided in the project for unforeseen activities could not be utilized in the
initial phase of the project implementation. However, the same was effectively utilized,
during the expansion phase, to provide water recharge structures, roads and bio-
fertilizers, etc.
Project Implementation Support.-
a)    Soil Survey:
Detailed soil and land use survey of medium intensity was carried out in Orissa state
prior to the project preparation and the generated infornation was used to derive land
capability classes, etc. to be subsequently used for project planning. Semi-detailed
surveys on 25,000 scale were also undertaken in Rajasthan for the project expansion area.
b)    Geographic Information system:
A Geographic Information System (GIS) to support planning and management activities
was established at Rajasthan. The GIS was used to prioritize micro-watersheds having
scope for development and as well to generate a detailed Watershed Management
Information System (WMIS) for supporting statistical and progress reporting needs of the
project.
Little progress was made in other states in the development of GIS though the related
software had been installed. Lack of sufficient training to the associated staff could be
one of the reasons for non operationalization of GIS in the states.
c)    Monitoring and Evaluation:
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) units established in all the states under the project,
have produced a number of good quality reports of general nature. The M&E units have
laid more emphasis on progress reporting and assessment of results rather than
assessment of overall impact of the project interventions. The impact assessment studies
were contracted to external agencies. The studies conducted by these agencies included
base line surveys, analysis of on-going activities and final impact assessment.
87



d)    Adaptive Research:
Support was given to State Agricultural Universities under the project for conducting
operational research for (i) identification of suitable plant species for agro-forestry,
fodder and silvi-pasture development, ii) development of optimal, location specific land
use systems iii) evaluation of different grass and shrub species for vegetative soil
conservation measures and iv) impact evaluation of various methods for soil and water
conservation.
The research undertaken by Universities was of good quality but the benefit of the
research findings was only partially realised primarily because the research did not
precede the project implementation works.
e)    Inter - Agency Linkages:
The project sought to encourage inter-agency collaboration for ensuring maintenance and
sustainability of the project assets.  It also sought to encourage external agency
collaboration with other line departments of the state government through specialized
staff deputed to the project from relevant line agencies. The extension back up support to
the project activities from line departments, however, could not be strengthened to the
desired level especially in Orissa and Gujarat States.
1)    Capacity Building:
Training support was provided under the project to build up capacity and skill of the staff
for soil and water conservation practices, agricultural technologies, institution building
skills and M&E activities. More than 3000 officials, associated with the project
implementation were imparted training in Gujarat state and 793 officials undertook study
tours to project areas within / outside state. Sufficient training was also imparted to
NGOs under the project. Around 400 project officials and NGOs from Orissa state
received trainer training from State Agriculture University. Few workshops were also
organised during the project implementation to discuss strategies for improving
sustainability and replicability of project activities.
Community Participation:
A key aim of the project was to establish i) community awareness of the concept of
development, planning and management of watersheds, ii) community involvement in selection
and participation in local land development initiatives, and iii) community responsibility for
management and maintenance of assets created during project implementation. This was to be
achieved through a process of participative consultation between government and communities
and the use of non-government organisations as partners in watershed development.
88



Non Government Organisations (NGOs):
NGO involvement was quite comprehensive in Orissa state with coverage of 264
villages, followed by Gujarat (110 villages). The involvement of NGOs in Rajasthan was almost
non-existent. Though NGOs did make a positive contribution to community development in
certain specific cases, their overall impact has not been significant owing ,presumably, to
insufficient technical and management capacity of NGOs.
User Groups:
User Committees were constituted in all the states in number of villages for maintenance
of assets created under the project. The user groups have also started collecting some revolving
funds from beneficiaries to sustain management activities on Panchayat lands. The total number
of 1627 user groups (1026 in Orissa, 437 in Rajasthan, 164 in Gujarat) were established , of
which around 50% are viable and functional.
Many  short  course  trainings  were  conducted  for  village  committee
members/beneficiaries/user group members and some study tours were also organized. Around
18000 farmers received training during the project implementation. An impact assessment of the
training indicated that more intensive training was required to improve the skill and capacity of
farmers.
Lessons' Learnt:
a)    Natural resources in the upper reaches of the watersheds are under immense biotic
pressure due to overgrazing by livestock. More emphasis should have been given to
rehabilitate the degraded areas by controlling grazing and livestock population.
b)   Institutional arrangements with line departments should be strengthened enough for
follow up work on the assets generated through project interventions.
c)    Adaptive research should precede the preparation of action plans for implementation
work.
d)    Women user groups should be formed to promote active women participation in
planning, implementation and sustainability of the project.
e)   Involvement of NGOs should be from the very beginning of the project implementation
stage.
Future Strategies:
a)    Geographic Information System (GIS) should be established prior to project
implementation and use of GIS should be made for prioritization of areas having
scope for development.
89'



b)    M&E should be done in more quantitative way. Periodic monitoring of soil loss, run-off,
recharge of ground water, total increase in green bio-mass and crop diversification should
be in built in the M&E system.
c)   Indigenous Technical knowledge (ITK) on the grass and shrub species suitable for the
area should be utilized.
d)    State Agriculture Universities (SAU) and Regional Research Stations should be involved
for developing location specific technologies before their adoption in large areas during
project implementation.
e)    Due emphasis should be given on marketing of farm produce.
f)   Involvement of NGOs in the project should be right from the planning stage and at
various stages of execution. The capacity of NGOs should be built up to understand the
philosophy and approach of the project.
g)    Animal Husbandry component should be given more attention right from the beginning
of the project especially in relation to the issues concerning reduction of livestock
population and overgrazing of resources.
h)    To improve community participation ,user groups should be forned in advance of project
start and the involvement of these groups should be ensured right at the project planning
stage.
90



