Page  1
                             CREDIT NUMBER 2131 IN
                                LOAN NUMBER 3197 IN
Project Agreement
(Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF GUJARAT
STATE OF ORISSA
and
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
Dated August 22, 1990
                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2131 IN
                                    LOAN NUMBER 3197 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 1990, among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF GUJARAT
(Gujarat), STATE OF ORISSA (Orissa), and STATE OF RAJASTHAN
(Rajasthan) (collectively "the Project States" and individually "the
Project State").
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty two
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,600,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
     (B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million
dollars ($7,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
Page  2
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A through E.4 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Project States shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that their respective annual budgets provide for
adequate funds for the carrying out of the annual watershed
development program and for its maintenance and operations
thereafter.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and the
Project States shall otherwise agree, the Project States shall carry
out Parts A through E.4 of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants,
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Part A through E.4 of the
Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request of
the Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association
and the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A through E.4 of
the Project, the performance of their obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and of the Loan.
     (b)  The Project States shall promptly inform the Association
and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
Page  3
the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by the
Project States of their obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Parts A through E.4 of the Project.
     (b)  Each Project State shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association and the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon
               as available, but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,  (A)
               certified copies of its records and accounts
               referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
               such year as so audited, and (B) the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association and the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)furnish to the Association and the Bank such
               other information concerning said records and
               accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the
               Association and the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement become effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and of the Project States thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit
               Agreement or the Loan Agreement of both of said
               Agreements shall terminate in accordance with
               their respective terms; or
          (ii) the date 20 years after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement or both of said Agreements terminates in accordance with
their respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly
notify the Project States of this event.
     Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The
addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:      Telex:
               INDEVAS             197688  (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423(RCA),
                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                   82987 (FTCC)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:
               INTBAFRAD           197688  (TRT),
               Washington,  D.C.   248423  (RCA),
                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                     82987 (FTCC)
     For Gujarat:
          Director of Agriculture
          Krishi Bhavan
          Paldi
          Ahamadabad - 380006
          Gujarat
          Cable address:      Telex:
               DIRAGRI             0120 - 3215
               AHAMADABAD
     For Orissa:
          Director of Soil Conservation
          Heads of Department Building
          Bhubaneswar
          Orissa
          Cable address:      Telex:
               ORISOIL             675210 - HOME IN
               BHUBANESWAR
     For Rajasthan:
          Director of Agriculture
          Pant Krishi Bhawan
Page  5
          Jaipur - 302005
          Cable  address:     Telex:
               AGRI  RAJ           365244 - SECTT IN
     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Project States may be taken or executed
by the Director of Agriculture on behalf of Gujarat, by the Director
of Soil Conservation on behalf of Orissa, and by the Director of
Agriculture on behalf of Rajasthan, or such other person or persons
as each Project State shall designate in writing, and each Project
State shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the Project States and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement:
     (a)  the obligations of the Project States to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
     (b)  the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, the Project States shall be satisfied to the
extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
     (c)  all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
     Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
                    DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/    A.  Karaosmanoglu
                              Regional  Vice  President
                                                   Asia
                    STATE OF GUJARAT
                    STATE OF ORISSA
                    STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                    By /s/ A. Kumar
                            Authorized   Representative
SCHEDULE
Page  6
Implementation Program
1.   Each Project State shall establish and thereafter maintain a
State level Policy Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the
Chief Secretary or Agriculture Secretary, as the case may be.
2.   Each Project State shall establish and thereafter maintain a
multi-disciplinary task force at the watershed level: (i) respon-
sible for the preparation of operational watershed treatment and
management plans, and (ii) with qualified staff in adequate numbers
including Project Directors with such powers and functions as may be
necessary for the effective management and operation of the
respective watershed.
3.   In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Project States
shall carry out impact evaluation studies on Project benefit and
sustainability assessment on different land uses and production
systems introduced, including downstream effects (stream flow and
groundwater replenishment).
4.   In carrying out Parts A.1 (c) and A.2 (c) of the Project, the
Project States shall not carry out, without the prior approval of
the Association and the Bank, treatment works for natural drainage
lines and associated gullies estimated to cost more than twenty-five
percent (25%) of the estimated treatment cost of the related
watershed.
5.   In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Project
States shall establish the following cost sharing arrangements with
beneficiaries in the Project Area:
     (a)  in respect of privately owned arable and non-arable
lands to be treated in the Project Area, the individual beneficiary
landholder shall contribute about fifteen percent of the cost of
labor and planting materials relating to such treatment in respect
of the beneficiary's land;
     (b)  in respect of arable and non-arable community lands,
vested in the Panchayats, to be treated in the Project Area, the
Panchayats shall contribute about ten percent of the cost of labor
relating to such treatment;
     (c)  in respect of non-arable State forest land, the Project
States shall enter into written agreements with beneficiaries or
their representatives for the purpose of sharing: (i) the respon-
sibility for protecting the forest resources to be developed under
the Project; and (ii) the benefits resulting from such development.
6.   In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, each Project
State shall: (i) coordinate the work of the technical field staff on
community mobilization and institution building with that of the
participating Non-Governmental Organizations; and (ii) facilitate
the exchange among Project States of the experience on consultative
planning and beneficiary participation.
7.   In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Project States
shall, not later than December 31, 1991, enter into agreements with
seed suppliers, such agreements to include the following: (i)
evaluation of local planting materials and actions required to
improve the selection and the processing of seeds; (ii) if required,
importation of seeds from the most promising sources and
establishment of acceptable reproduction procedures.
8.   In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project:
     (a)  each Project State shall establish and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project a Watershed Planning and
Coordination Organization (WPCO) with: (i) a planning cell; (ii) a
management cell; (iii) a monitoring and reporting cell; and (iv)
qualified staff in adequate numbers, including a Project Coordinator
with such powers and functions as may be necessary for the effective
Page  7
management and operation of the respective WPCO; and
     (b)  such WPCO shall be established: (i) in Gujarat, in GLDC;
(ii) in Orissa, in the Department of Soil Conservation; and (iii) in
Rajasthan, in the Department of Agriculture.
9.   In carrying out Part E.2 of the Project, each Project State
shall: (i) develop consultative planning methods and curricula for
training field level staff in their use; and (ii) develop models for
joint management of non-arable lands, including model agreements for
user groups of such lands.
10.  The Project States shall participate in the mid-term review of
the implementation of the Project referred to in Section 3.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement, and shall, promptly thereafter,
carry out the agreed recommendations of the review in a manner
acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
