                           Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                               Report No: 30313
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/18/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: KENYA                                               Project ID: P072981
Project: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Mgt.             Task Team Leader: Berhane Manna
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 20, 2004                    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 14, 2004                              IDA Amount ($m): 0.00
                                                             Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 4.50
Managing Unit: AFTS2                                         Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)           (100%)
Status: Grant                                                Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                                                             Biodiversity (P); Other environment and natural
                                                             resources management (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
    Background and context

    Western Kenya has one of the densest and poorest populations in the world, with up to 1200 persons/
    sq. km, and nearly 30-50 percent households subsisting on less than $16 a month. Low agricultural
    productivity, high population pressure and lack of off-farm income opportunities have contributed to
    low incomes and increasing land degradation. Both high and lowland areas are under threat as
    marginal lands are increasingly brought under agricultural use and encroachment into remaining
    woodlands, wetlands and natural forests causes land degradation, habitat destruction and biodiversity
    losses.

    Current smallholder practices are no longer adequate to meet food needs or maintain the resource
    base. Use of traditional land management methods such as fallowing of lands kept land degradation
    under check in the past. With pressure from an increasing population and greater food insecurity, this
    practice has been almost abandoned, resulting in severe erosion and nutrient depletion. The subsequent
    sediment and nutrient loading in watercourses has caused significant eutrophication of Lake Victoria.
    Rapid erosion has also created large, fast growing gullies that increasingly encroach on valuable
    farmland.

    Poverty reduction, environmental quality and sustainable agriculture are intricately linked in Western
    Kenya. Intensification of land use is necessary to achieve farming systems that are more sustainable
    than what is available today. Experiences from Central Kenya, where there is evidence of high
    productivity, high profits, and good land management, are supportive of this relationship. Improved
    land management techniques that focus on increasing soil fertility, such as agroforestry, provide the
    opportunity to achieve sustainable agricultural intensification.

    In addition to solving local problems of poverty and natural resource degradation, better farming
    practices also provide global environmental benefits in areas of biodiversity, international waterways,
    and climate change. The recent Land-Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry Report (2000) of the
    Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has identified land use techniques to convert
    degraded croplands into agroforestry with the largest potential to sequester carbon. Estimates of

                                                       2
                                                                                                          ISDS


     carbon accumulation rates range from 2 to 9 tonnes per hectare per year, depending on the climate and
     the nature of the agroforestry practice.

     Kenya has already acquired some experience and expertise in addressing the issues of land and soil
     degradation in the western region through a number of initiatives focused on soil fertility and improved
     land management (such as the Soil Management Project, Legume Research Network, and Agricultural
     Technology and Information Response Initiative). The proposed project would be implemented in
     Western Kenya with the main purpose of scaling up the existing successes to cover a larger area and
     more farming communities.

     Project Development Objective

    The project seeks to improve the productivity and sustainability of land use systems in selected
    watersheds in the Nzoia, Yala and Nyando river basins through adoption of an integrated ecosystem
    management approach. In order to achieve this the project will: (i) support on and off farm
    conservation strategies; and (ii) improve the capacity of local communities and institutions to identify,
    formulate and implement integrated ecosystem management activities (including both on and off-farm
    land use planning) capturing local and global environmental benefits.

     The project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby
     communities would decide on         resources for infrastructure investments, technical assistance and
     implementation of ecosystem management activities.

     Global Objective

     The global environmental objective of the project is to promote a set of ecosystem management
     interventions so as to achieve local and global benefits. These benefits include reduced land
     degradation, reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the atmosphere, improved on and
     off-farm biodiversity, and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia
     River Basins. The project will use an integrated ecosystem management approach within the three
     river basins.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
    The project will utilize an integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach. Ecosystems are
    important not only for the utility they provide in the form of production of "goods" or commodities, but
    also for the maintenance of critical "services" (water supply, soil fertility). Where goals for production
    of ecosystem goods and services conflict with one another, IEM is a means of balancing the increased
    production with environmental protection. The overall goal for the project is therefore to improve
    ecosystem performance in terms of biological productivity, integrity, maintenance and sustainability
    while at the same time ensuring that these improvements can be adopted by farmers and
    decision-makers at various levels and that they result in poverty alleviation and farmer empowerment.

    A key element of IEM in the project will be linking upstream and downstream communities to better
    manage the river catchment as a whole. This will be accomplished through planning and financing of
    interventions that incorporate cross-community concerns.

    The project will have three broad components:

    Component 1: Capacity Building for Community Driven Integrated Ecosystem Management

                                                   3
                                                                                                       ISDS




Activities in the first component will focus on two areas of capacity building: (i) strengthening the local
development and IEM planning capacity of rural communities and local governments through
organizational and managerial support and transfer of technical knowledge; and (ii) capacity building
at local and national levels for piloting carbon financing mechanisms.

The project will work with village development committees that represent all stakeholders and are
already active in village level development. The project will particularly encourage and support
inter-village development coordination committees at micro-catchments, catchments and watershed
levels. The expected environmental benefits from the first component are: (i) an acknowledgement of
key ecosystem management issues within and across communities; (ii) the creation of inter and
intra-community land degradation mitigation and biodiversity conservation strategies; and (iii) the
development of mechanisms for creation and management of carbon assets.

 Sub-component 1.1: Strengthen Local Development and IEM Planning. The project will strengthen
 local development and IEM planning capacities of communities to formulate, write, and submit
 Participatory Action Plans (PAPs) and proposals for donors funding. PAPs will be prepared at the
 community level using participatory rural appraisal (PRA) methods. The project will also strengthen
 the land/IEM planning and M&E capacity of local governments by providing them with necessary
 GIS databases, equipment and training.

 Pilot areas will be established to test and demonstrate PAP options, and to provide real-time learning
 as communities and households implement their project on their own land. The activities to be
 supported will include participatory adaptive on-farm research, farmer field schools, farmer-to-farmer
 exchanges, training of extension workers and rural development practitioners (NGOs, local
 development authorities, MoA extension staff), and development of extension messages. The project
 will also assist communities with the identification and preparation of relevant management plans for
 critical non agro-ecosystem sites. Inter-village plans will be established to address those key non-farm
 areas which currently aren't protected. Local refugia will be identified and where little is known
 about endangered or endemic biodiversity, special attention will be given to the identification of
 species, awareness raising and conservation planning.

 Technical backstopping and facilitation of planning, implementing, and evaluating the program
 interventions would be provided by NGOs and other service providers, as well as KARI, KEFRI and
 World Agroforestry Center. The District Agriculture and Livestock Development Offices would
 perform the key role of interfacing with farmer organizations and liaising with the project coordination
 office.

 Sub-component 1.2: Enhanced Capacity for Developing Carbon Finance Proposals. To facilitate
 the participation of targeted communities in the global carbon market, the project will build the
 capacity of the government, local institutions, and communities. In particular, the project will enhance
 the ability of target communities to develop carbon financing proposals, measure baselines, and
 establish the administrative processes required to enter into carbon sequestration contracts. The
 project will also provide support to apex farmers organizations at the provincial and national levels,
 departments in charge of global environment conventions negotiations and implementation in the
 Ministry of Environment, and potential local and private sector operators willing to get involved in
 environmental markets. In particular the national carbon monitoring, evaluation and certification
 capacity will be enhanced by developing such capacity within the national agricultural research system
 including Kenyan universities.

                                                  4
                                                                                                     ISDS




Component 2: Scaling up and Financing IEM Interventions

The project will provide funds for the implementation of IEM activities identified in the first
component. The component will also support two types of community-based sub-projects: village
community sub-projects (involving one village) and inter-village community sub-projects (involving
several villages); both types of sub-projects would be financed through a matching grant program that
would require community contributions. Further, the component will fund a select number of
infrastructure developments such as the closing of networks of gullies, protection of river banks, or
lake banks, and upgrading of access roads.

Small projects identified in the PAP plans may also include the development of village nurseries to
support agroforestry, development of existing biodiversity resources, support for alternatives to
control land degradation, reduce sediment loss, and land management interventions to sequester carbon
in agricultural landscapes. Expected environmental benefits are: (i) increased carbon sequestration
through the use of cover crops, and tree planting; (ii) decreased sediment load in surrounding
watercourses due to reduced erosion; and (iii) improved awareness and conservation of biodiversity at
the community level.

Component 3: Establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation System

Monitoring and Evaluation activities are included as a separate component due to the technical
requirements associated with quantifying environmental benefits and the importance of measuring
progress on the project's objectives.

The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information for directly assessing the
outcomes and impacts of the project, and also for refining working methodologies and procedures. The
M&E system would, in addition to monitoring project implementation, focus on two broad areas of
impact: socioeconomic and biophysical. The expected environmental benefits are: (i) the measurement
of changes in carbon stocks and biodiversity levels over the project lifetime, including a net-net
accounting of GHG accumulation; (ii) the incorporation of environmental monitoring into local
monitoring and evaluation exercises; and (iii) improved capacity for monitoring carbon stocks.

The M&E would be carried out using participatory mechanisms, coupled with a strong technical and
scientific component associated with biophysical measurement. These will build on methods generated
under the targeted research activities of the project, and will consist of a mix of field surveys and
remote sensing, some of which were tested during the development of baseline data. The M & E
system will be coordinated by the project coordination office (PCO) with World Agroforestry Center
and KARI undertaking most of the M & E activities.

Measurement of carbon sequestration will be particularly challenging. Results of measurements will
be accumulated to produce "net-net accounting" of GHG accumulation. Monitoring for greenhouse
gasses will comply with the IPCC guidelines to the extent possible. Most of these procedures,
however, were developed for Annex 1 countries for national reporting and may not be appropriate for
village level projects in developing countries. Thus, provision is made for some targeted research
activities to explore more cost effective monitoring options.

Monitoring activities will also involve community level monitoring of action plans, using the "Impact
Monitoring and Assessment" tools. Progress on the social, economic, agricultural and environmental

                                                         5
                                                                                                             ISDS


      objectives of the action plans will be assessed. Poverty levels will be assessed at the start of the project
      based on the 1999 census. In addition, household data to assess change in poverty during the term of
      the project will be collected. The project will also monitor erosion and nutrient loss, the incidence of
      pests and diseases, and the impacts of these on the welfare of farmers in the project area. Much effort
      was made to ensure the cost effectiveness of the M&E system.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
     The project will be implemented in selected watersheds in the Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia river basins of
     Western Kenya, which is home to 12 million people, or 40% of the country's population, but occupies
     only 15% of the land area. These lands have high agricultural potential, yet recent soil degradation has led
     to incidences of abject poverty on the order of 30 to 50% of the rural households (Central Bureau of
     Statistics, 1998). Low yields and increasing population in western Kenya have caused more marginal
     lands to be brought into production and degradation of remaining natural forests, resulting in still greater
     rates of land degradation, habitat destruction, and biodiversity losses.

     People from six major ethnic groups inhabit western Kenya: the Abagusii, Luo, Masai, Abasuba, Kuria
     and the Kipsigis. The primary livelihood strategy is farming, with around 80 percent of the population in
     the three river basins engaging in some type of agricultural activity. Local cultural norms and groupings
     affect livelihood strategies and access to resources. Such differences, in combination with agro-ecological
     circumstances, affect the mix of agriculture, livestock, petty business and other non farm activities
     households rely on for income. Enterprise management and crop production is also gender specific in
     many cases. Ownership of land is dominated by men. HIV/AIDS rates in Western Kenya are also among
     the highest in the country and have left a growing number of rural households widowed or orphaned.
     Women headed households represent up to 35 percent of households in some project areas.

     Western Kenya also supports a number of protected areas that have unique habitats and biodiversity of
     local, national and global significance: the Kakamega and Nandi Reserve Forests, the Ruma National
     Park, Yala National Reserve, Bunyala Forest Reserve, and the West Kano Bird Sanctuary.

     Western Kenya is also part of the larger Lake Victoria Basin, whose products and services support some
     25 million people in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Environmental degradation in the uplands inevitably
     affects the lake, resulting in declining fisheries and increased infestation by the exotic aquatic weed, water
     hyacinth.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The project is classified as category B. Although the project is expected to produce net benefits in
terms of natural resource management and conservation, certain project activities related to improved land
management may have environmental or social impacts that require mitigation.




C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                            Triggered

                                                        6
                                                                                                          ISDS


   Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
   Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
   Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes     No
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes     No
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes     No
   Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes     No
   Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes     No
   Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
     Project activities will not result in any appreciable negative environmental or social impacts. The
     small scale of project activities, community driven decision making process, and nature of activities
     (integrated ecosystem management interventions) make it unlikely that significant resettlement or
     environmental damage will occur during implementation. Through soil and water conservation,
     biodiversity conservation, reforestation, and grazing measures, the project is expected to substantially
     improve environmental conditions in the target areas.

     At the project concept stage, a number of safeguard policies were deemed applicable or potentially
     applicable to the project. After further refinement of the project design and an initial environmental
     and social assessment, it was determined the following safeguard policies are triggered:

     Environmental Assessment. The primary objective of the project is to improve the sustainability of
     ecosystem functions and services using an integrated ecosystem management approach. Project
     interventions will focus on implementation of specific activities that improve the long term
     sustainability of the ecosystem. Although some improved land management activities may require
     assessment and mitigation, it is anticipated that few of the expected activities will have a negative
     environmental impact. An initial environmental and social assessment has been prepared and
     disclosed. A final version will be disclosed after appraisal.

     Specific project activities will include:

     - Tree planting for woodlots, in boundaries or as scattered trees in farms for poles, fuelwood, or
     charcoal;

     - Planting of high value trees such as fruit tree orchards, timber trees or medicinal trees;

     - Management of woody areas for poles, timber and fodder;

     - Establishment of fenced pastures to restore natural vegetation;

     - Establishment of tree nurseries;

     - Agroforestry for soil fertility replenishment and improved crop production (improved fallows,

                                                    7
                                                                                                        ISDS


biomass transfer, mixed cropping);

- Proper management of residues on farm;

- Conservation strategies for biodiversity in critical habitats;

- Development of non wood products (honey, crafts, oil, medicine);

- Improved technologies for energy saving and production;

- Rehabilitation and construction of structures for spring protection, water conservation, drainage
channels or dikes.


The following safeguard policies are not triggered:

International Waters. The project will be implemented in the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia River Basins,
which are part of a international riparian area, the Lake Victoria watershed. However, the project will
not finance use of irrigation or other consumptive water use activities and will not adversely change
the quality or quantity of water flows to Lake Victoria.

Involuntary resettlement. The involuntary resettlement policy is not triggered because project
activities such as soil re-capitalization, erosion control, and tree planting are unlikely to result in
significant alteration of land or changes in access for both communal and private land. Alteration or
change in access is expected to be voluntary and any such changes are likely to be small, there may be
some potential for impacts. It is expected that project activities would result in minimal loss of income
or livelihood for community members. Interventions involving alteration of land use practices will be
undertaken by individuals to both improve environmental sustainability as well as provide economic
profit. The focus on dual environmental and economic benefits will improve the overall sustainability
of the intervention and reduce negative social impacts. Likewise, community interventions are not
anticipated to create significant negative impact on livelihoods. Project activities implemented on
communal land will involve erosion control and other interventions to conserve biodiversity. While it is
possible that some groups or individuals could be negatively affected, this is likely to be quite minor
and the project's ESA should provide sufficient mitigation measures.

Natural Habitats. There are a number of critical habitats in western Kenya, however none will be
adversely affected by the project. The project will not be implemented in any protected area but will
target a number of critical natural habitats for biodiversity conservation. Critical natural habitats in
the project area include swamps, wetlands, and forest and grassland fragments. Because the project
will focus on conservation strategies, there will be no degradation or conversion of habitats. Other
project activities are also not expected to negatively impact critical habitats indirectly.

Indigenous Peoples. The project will be implemented with farmers in lowland and highland areas and
will not impact any indigenous peoples. The Ogiek are classified as an indigenous people in Kenya,
but they do not reside in or around the specific project area.

Cultural Property. The project will not include areas of significant cultural value. However, the
project may impact small communal cultural property such as funeral or burial sites. The project's
participatory approach should be sufficient to ensure appropriate management of such property.

Forestry. Although Western Kenya does support a number of protected forest areas, they are not
within or adjacent to the specific project area. It is unlikely that project activities will have any

                                                         8
                                                                                                           ISDS


     significant effect on forest ecosystems.

     Pest Management. The project will not finance or support the procurement or use of pesticides
     directly or indirectly. The project will finance on-farm activities aimed at increasing agricultural
     productivity, with the main thrust of activities on improving the sustainability of agricultural
     production through improved land management and adoption of agroforestry and soil fertility
     management practices. It is anticipated that the project will have a positive impact on pest
     management in the project areas. Although no stand alone pest management plan will be prepared, the
     ESA will include methods to promote integrated pest management into project design.

     Safety of Dams. The project does not involve any dams or construction of dams.

     Projects in Disputed Areas. The project area does not include any disputed areas.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
     Cumulative effects due to multiple project components are not anticipated. The project's three
     components are narrow in scope and tailored to support the primary activity of the project: improved
     land rehabilitation and integrated ecosystem management. Each component reinforces the other and all
     are expected to have a positive long term environmental impact.


II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
     As environmental factors are perceived to play a key role in the current level of chronic food insecurity
     in the target areas, environmental rehabilitation is a key component to building up and sustaining the
     natural resource base. The project will support a community driven approach to integrated ecosystem
     management and create a framework for community ecosystem management that includes mitigation
     of negative environmental impact.

     The project is expected to have minimal negative social impact from land improvement interventions
     that reduce access to communal or private land. The project is designed to minimize this possibility
     and individuals or communities who participate in activities involving the alteration or withdrawal of
     land for the purposes of improved land management will also be those who will control the products or
     services generated by such activities.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
     The proposed project seeks to integrate the management of agricultural production and environmental
     service functions to generate global environmental benefits and contribute to more sustainable
     agricultural productivity. The first project proposal considered covered all lands in western Kenya that
     fall within the Lake Victoria watershed. The priority districts were to be selected taking into account
     several criteria of GEF, carbon sequestration and biodiversity increment potential, severity of land
     degradation and the proximity to reserves with significant degradation due to external pressure. This
     idea was abandoned because the area was too large and consequently the piloting of integrated
     ecosystem management approaches together with mainstreaming and scaling up interventions would
     have had very little impact and high transaction costs. More impact can be achieved by focusing on
     three river basins over the life of the project. It is therefore, proposed to begin activities in the
     Nyando River basin during the first year and extend activities to the Yala and Nzoia River basins
     during the second and third years of the project. The more focused approach will also reduce potential
     negative environmental and social impacts and ease coordination of mitigation strategies.

                                                        9
                                                                                                           ISDS




II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
     An initial Environmental and Social Management Assessment (ESA) was disclosed to the Bank in
     May, 2004 and will be further refined during appraisal. Disclosure of the final ESA in country and to
     the Bank will be a condition of project effectiveness. The Environmental and Social Assessment will
     influence the project implementation manual. In addition, because selection of project activities will
     occur throughout implementation, assessment of environmental and social impact will be ongoing. The
     project implementation manual will include a mechanism whereby sub-projects would be required to
     include mitigation plans if necessary.


II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Consultations on safeguards issues will be participatory. Project preparation and design employed a
participatory approach A three day workshop on project development took place in December 2000 with
the participation of farmer groups, government agencies (KARI, Ministry of Agriculture, KEFRI), NGOs
and international organizations. Further consultation will take place during appraisal. Implementation of
the project will be coordinated by KARI, but the project envisages the participation of ICRAF, farmers,
NGOs, and other community organizations both benefiting from the strengthened institutional capacity and
participating in the payment for environmental services and the management of protected areas. The project
is designed to ensure a participatory approach, including consultations on the ESA. Consultations and
operationalization of the ESA will take place at the community level through initial community planning
process for creation of Participatory Action Plans. Project monitoring and evaluation would also be carried
out with farmer participation. The key performance standards would provide for output and impact
indicators to measure farmer and community participation, capacity building of the community
institutions, indicators for incomes and poverty reduction, and outcomes of a sustainable agriculture.

The ESA was disclosed in country according to National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA)
procedures. A notice will be placed in the Kenya Gazette and an advertisement in a newspaper with
nationwide circulation, for two successive weeks. Comments will be invited in the advertisement over a
period of sixty days from the date of the first newspaper advertisement; the comments will be considered as
part of NEMA's determination of the ESA. The advertisement will also specify that copies of the report
shall be available for inspection for a period of sixty days at specified locations. For WKIEMP these
locations will be:

·        the office of the Director-General, KARI;
·        KARI research stations in Kakamega and Kisii;
·        the ICRAF sub-office in Kisumu; and
·        the office of the Director-General, NEMA.

Following completion of the sixty-day disclosure period, NEMA provides a decision and, if appropriate,
grants an EIA license, within 30 days.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in

                                                     10
                                                                                                        ISDS


        management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
        technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
        projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
        issues.

                                                   11
                                                                                                    ISDS




F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              11/15/2003      2/25/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          12/1/2003       5/21/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           12/1/2003       5/28/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Berhane Manna                                      06/18/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                                        06/18/2004
Sector Manager                        Karen Mcconnell Brooks                             06/18/2004

