Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054250-KE 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated  May 4, 2005 
 
Page  2
-
1
-
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054250-KE 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated  May 4, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance from the 
resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having been approved 
in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured 
Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2;   
 (D) 
the Project will be carried out by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute 
(KARI) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to KARI the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement 
and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and KARI (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) and (21), 
2.02 and 2.03; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01  (6), 6.02 (f)  and  5.01 (a) thereof, means the Bank acting 
as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 (vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph  (o) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a community based organization or a community group 
recognized as a legal entity under the laws of the Recipient and operating in the Project Area (as 
hereinafter defined), which has met the eligibility criteria set out in Section III of Schedule 2 to 
Page  4
-
3
-
the Project Agreement and in the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined) and, as a 
result, has received, or is entitled to receive, a Community Sub-project Grant (as hereinafter 
defined);  
(b) 
“Community Sub-project” means a set of activities under Part B of the Project 
carried out or to be carried out by a Beneficiary; 
(c) 
“Community Sub-project Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
KARI out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary for the purpose of 
financing a Community Sub-project; 
(d)  
“Community Sub-project Grant Agreement” means an agreement concluded, or 
to be concluded, between KARI and a Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions under 
which a Community Sub-project Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiary;   
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means
 
the expenditures referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“ESMF” means the Environmental and Social Management Framework adopted 
by the Recipient and acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter alia: (i) details on the potential 
environmental and social risks and impacts which can occur at various stages of Project 
implementation; (ii) measures appropriate or required to manage potential environmental and social 
risks and mitigate adverse impacts associated with Community Sub-projects and other Project 
activities; and (iii) recommendations for adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting, and 
training arrangements to ensure the proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance 
with, the ESMF; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement. 
(i) 
“GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(k) 
“KARI” means the Kenya  Agricultural Research Institute, established pursuant 
to the Recipient’s Science and Technology Act, 1979 (CAP 250) to, among other things, carry out 
research in agriculture, veterinary sciences, and forestry, or any successor thereto; 
(l) 
“PAP” means each Participatory Action Plan prepared under Part A.1 of the 
Project;  
(m) 
“PCO” means the Project Coordination Office referred to in Section I(2) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in Section II(1) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means KARI’s procurement plan dated October 28, 2004, 
covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of the Project 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
(p) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(q) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and KARI, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 (r) 
“Project Area” means approximately nine 100 sq.km focal areas, three such areas 
for each of the three basins selected in accordance with criteria specified in the PIP for purposes 
of Project implementation, from among the Nyando,  Yala, and Nzoia River Basins of Western 
Kenya;  
(s) 
Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for withdrawal of 
funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(u) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and 
KARI referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount  
equal to four million one hundred thousand Dollars ($ 4,100,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made under Community Sub-project Grants in respect of the reasonable costs of 
goods, works and services required for Community Sub-projects, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is requested. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, shall cause KARI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of KARI therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable KARI to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available to 
KARI under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and KARI, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Section  3.03.  The Recipient and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by KARI pursuant to Section 2.04 of the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain in KARI’s name in Kenya Shillings, until the completion of the 
Project, a Project Account
 
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to finance the Recipient’s contribution to the expenditures  
under the Project; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of $10,000 equivalent; and 
(ii) thereafter, at quarterly intervals, such amounts agreed upon between the Recipient and the 
Bank as are estimated to be required at any given time for the ensuing three-month period; and 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the Recipient’s contribution to 
the expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant.
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section  
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by 
the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by 
the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement or on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Bank has received the audit report for, or covering, the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to  paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
KARI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that KARI will be able to 
perform its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.   
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:     
(a) 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and KARI; 
(b) 
KARI shall have appointed the staff referred to in Section I(2)(c) of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, all with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in accordance with the Provisions of Section III of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(c) 
the Project Account shall have been opened and credited with the Initial Deposit; 
and 
 (d) 
KARI shall have furnished to the Bank the Project Implementation Plan in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
The Minister for Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30007 
Nairobi, Kenya 
Cable address: 
Facsimile: 
FINANCE 
254 2 240045 
NAIROBI 
254 2 219365 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Nairobi, 
Kenya, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
By  /s/ David Mwiraria 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/ Colin Bruce 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
756,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services, 
1,551,000 
100% of foreign 
 
 
 
including audits 
 
expenditures and 
 
 
 
94%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) Training 
201,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Community Sub-project Grants 
607,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) 
Operating Costs 
693,000 
95%  
 
(6) Unallocated 
292,000 
 
___________ 
 TOTAL 
4,100,000 
 
==========  
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures associated with tuition fees, travel,  
accommodation, subsistence and incidental expenses incurred for the purposes of carrying out 
training seminars and workshops and study tours under the Project; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(d) 
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including vehicles operation and maintenance, 
communication, reasonable Special Account banking charges, rental expenses, office 
maintenance costs, equipment and office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel cost and  per 
diem for Project staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) under 
Category (4) of the table set forth under paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1, for any Community Sub-
project Grant, unless the Community Sub-project Grant has been made in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and with the PIP and 
the ESMF. 
 4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract; (e) training; (f) Community Sub-projects; and (g) operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to 
the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for 
the six-month period following the date of such request.  
6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account an amount equal to the amount so used. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
Page  13
-
12
-
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for payment of 
Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
Page  14
-
13
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
US$ 400,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the [six-month period] following the date of such 
reports. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the productivity and sustainability of land 
use systems in selected watersheds in the Project Area, and to promote a set of integrated 
ecosystem management interventions so as to achieve local and global environmental benefits.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives. 
Part A
.
Capacity Building for Community Driven Integrated Ecosystem Management
1. 
Strengthening of the local development and integrated ecosystem management planning 
capacity of rural communities, and preparation of PAPs, management plans for critical non agro-
ecosystem sites and Community Sub-project proposals through participatory rapid appraisal 
methods.  
2.  
Strengthening of the land and integrated ecosystem management planning capacity of 
local governments to identify and implement specific integrate ecosystem management 
interventions. 
 3. 
Sensitizing and building the capacity of central and local government institutions and 
communities to manage carbon assets and develop administrative processes required to enter into 
carbon sequestration contracts, and building the capacity of KARI to measure carbon baselines 
and stocks and establish a national carbon monitoring, evaluation and certification system.  
Part B
.
Financing of Integrated Ecosystem Management Interventions
Provision of Community Sub-project Grants to Beneficiaries for the implementation of 
selected integrated ecosystem management activities identified in the PAPs prepared under Part 
A.1 of the Project, including, among others, activities in the following areas: 
(i) 
development of village nurseries to support agro-forestry; 
(ii) 
conservation of existing biodiversity resources through adoption of protective measures 
or support to alternative livelihood strategies and small scale income generating activities that 
reduce pressure on critical habitats; 
(iii) 
dissemination of improved fallow and cover crop technologies to control land 
degradation and reduce sediment loss; 
(iv) 
carrying out of training on improved land management practices; 
(v) 
carrying out of activities to increase plant or tree cover on and off farm in order to 
sequester carbon in agricultural landscapes; 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
(vi) 
carrying out of small scale infrastructure activities such as protection of river banks and 
construction of water pans; and 
(vii) 
testing and demonstration in selected pilot areas of integrated ecosystem management 
options identified under the PAPs, and carrying out of information dissemination activities such 
as participatory adaptive on-farm research, establishment of farmer field schools, and provision of 
farmer to farmer training.   
Part C
.
Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System 
Establishment of a participatory monitoring and evaluation system in order to assess the 
outcomes and the socioeconomic, biophysical and other impacts of Project interventions and to 
refine working methodologies and procedures for the purposes of the Project, including (i) 
development and implementation of tools for Community level monitoring and assessment of the 
achievement of the social, economic, agricultural and environmental objectives of PAPs; (ii) 
monitoring of biodiversity and river basin impact indicators; and (iii) monitoring of greenhouse 
gases through remote sensing and field surveys and carrying out of targeted research activities to 
explore cost effective monitoring procedures beyond the term of the Project.  
Part D
.
Project Administration
Provision of support to the PCO for the coordination, administration, monitoring and 
evaluation, and auditing of all Project activities. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
 
