Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)                            
29273
 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:   
 
Project Name 
Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
 
Project ID 
P072981 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA 
Implementing Agency 
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)  
Address:  P.O. Box 57811 Nairobi, Kenya 
Contact Person:  Dr. Romano Kiome, Director 
Tel:  254-2-583-290                        Fax:  254 (0) 20583344 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 28, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 28, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
October 14, 2004 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Western Kenya has  one of the densest and poorest populations, with up to 1200 persons/sq. km in some 
rural areas, The region is characterized by low agricultural productivity, high population pressure 
and lack of off-farm income opportunities. Over 58 percent of households live in absolute poverty.  
 
Traditional land management in Western Kenya relied on the fallowing of unproductive fields to restore 
fertility and decrease pest problems. High rural population growth has made this practice untenable, and 
has led to wide scale abandonment of fallowing and the search for new agricultural land. There has been 
little restriction on encroachment onto steep slopes, wetlands, or forests, despite the existence of laws and 
regulations against such practices. 
 
As a result, conversion of woodlands, forests, and wetlands into agricultural production has accelerated in 
recent years with significant negative impact on the natural resource base. Studies conducted in the 
context of the Lake Victoria Integrated Land Management Project (LVILMP) uniformly indicate the 
occurrence of severely accelerated land degradation in the Lake Victoria watershed. Measurements 
performed on sediment cores collected in the Nyando estuary show that sedimentation rates of the basin 
have increased fourfold over the last 100 years.(Walsh, unpublished data), resulting in large gullies that 
advance at rates up to 200 meters per year and large quantities of sediment deposit in the Winam Gulf of 
Lake Victoria.  
 
Western Kenya’s rich stock of biodiversity has suffered as a result of land degradation. By the mid 
1980’s, some 400 endemic species of cichlid fish were approaching extinction due to encroachment from 
water hyacinth and increasing eutrophication of Lake Victoria. Deforestation and loss of vegetative cover 
has also resulted in a shortage of plant and tree resources. Over the last 150 years the most important land 
cover conversion pathways in the Nyando basin have been characterized by substitutions of vegetation 
Page  2
dominated by trees (characterized by a C3 photosynthetic pathway) to vegetation dominated by grasses 
(characterized by a C4 photosynthetic pathway). Evidence from stable carbon isotope (i.e.; d13C) studies  
suggest that historically, grass and cereal crop based land use types (Walsh et al., in prep.) are strongly 
associated with elevated soil erosion risk in this environment. 
 
Experiences from Central Kenya, where there is evidence of high productivity, high profits, and good 
land management, indicate that poverty reduction, land degradation, and sustainable agriculture are 
intricately linked. Adoption of an ecosystem management (EM) approach focusing on: (i) participatory 
planning of land use and natural resources management at the village, local, district, watershed and 
provincial levels; (ii) empowerment of communities with proven technology, information and financial 
resources  to make the best investment decisions; and (iii) dissemination of agro-ecosystem management 
techniques (e.g. improved soil fertility, erosion control, etc.), will be necessary to address problems of 
natural resource degradation and achieve sustainable farming systems.  
 
Better farming practices also provide global environmental benefits. The recent 
Land-Use, Land-Use 
Change, and Forestry Report
 (2000) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has 
identified the conversion of degraded crop lands into agroforestry as the land-use practice with the largest 
potential to sequester carbon.     
 
The Government has been actively involved in disseminating new agricultural technologies. The 
proposed project would be implemented in Western Kenya with the main purpose of scaling up the 
existing successes and introducing  an ecosystem-wide approach to achieve sustainable agriculture. The 
project is also expected to demonstrate the value of such an approach and will help leverage Government, 
IDA or other resources for scaling up project successes in the future. 
 
2. Project 
Objectives 
 
The project seeks to improve the productivity and sustainability of land use systems in selected 
watersheds in  the Nzoia, Yala and Nyando river basins through adoption of an integrated ecosystem 
management approach. In order to achieve this the project will: (i) support on- and off-farm conservation 
strategies; and (ii) improve the capacity of local communities and institutions to identify, formulate and 
implement integrated ecosystem management activities (including both on and off-farm land use 
planning) capturing local and global environmental benefits. 
 
The project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby 
communities would decide on  resources for infrastructure investments, technical assistance and 
implementation of ecosystem management activities.  
 
Global Environmental Objective:
The global environmental objective of the project is to promote a set of integrated ecosystem management 
interventions so as to achieve local and global benefits. These benefits include  reduced land degradation, 
reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the atmosphere, improved on-and off-farm biodiversity, 
and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia river basins.  
 
Key performance indicators
:
Progress in achieving the development objectives would be monitored by specific indicators designed to 
demonstrate or measure the following: 
 
Page  3
·
Community participation in assessment, planning, decision making, implementation, and 
evaluation of integrated ecosystem management activities 
·
Participation of local and regional institutions in planning and coordinating ecosystem 
management activities 
·
Adoption rates of improved ecosystem management technologies or production practices 
·
Change in soil fertility and in land quality on land where improved land management 
technologies are applied 
·
Sequestration of above and below ground carbon as measured by ground survey and remote 
sensing 
·
Indigenous on- and off-farm biodiversity in the surrounding project area as measured by ground 
survey and estimates of eco-system richness 
·
Reduced erosion rates and sediment delivery  in watercourses surrounding project areas as 
measured by soil spectral analysis 
·
Reduced phosphorous runoff from agricultural land into key waterways.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank will administer the project on behalf of GEF. The proposed program activities support the 
objectives set out in GEF’s Operational Program # 12 on Integrated Ecosystem Management. The project 
specifically provides global benefits with regard to the ‘conservation and sustainable use of biological 
diversity’, ‘reductions in net emissions and increased storage of green house gases’, and the ‘conservation 
and sustainable use of waterbodies’. The project supports OP12 outcomes for increased institutional 
capacity to implement integrated ecosystem management and investments based on stakeholder 
participation to address both domestic and global environment benefits. The project further contributes to 
the GEF OP12 through the provision of investments consistent with stakeholder priorities, and the 
application of a community driven methodology.   
 
Project activities are linked to the strategic priorities within OP 12 in the following areas: international 
waterways, biodiversity, and climate change. The project will also contribute to GEF operational goals by 
serving as a catalyst to promote integrated ecosystem management in Western Kenya. This is particularly 
important as many land management interventions in Western Kenya focus on the farm level rather than 
the wider ecosystem. The project’s focus on capacity building and technical assistance will increase the 
ability of local and national institutions to achieve sustainable natural resource management.  
 
The project will have an important impact on future Bank financed projects in the region. In developing 
the Bank’s new Country Assistance Strategy, the Government of Kenya has requested IDA financing for 
a
community- driven development (CDD) project  in Western Kenya for 2007. This new project will 
build on the experiences of the project proposed here. While the two projects will be administered 
separately, they will use the same implementation mechanisms.  Given the acute need for community 
based development and land degradation interventions, the current project will help fill the gap until the 
new project becomes effective. 
 
The Bank/GEF possess comparative advantage in securing inter-country cooperation, and have the added 
advantage of making available considerable knowledge and experience in project design and institutional 
arrangements for implementation that have worked in similar African conditions. The proposed project 
includes objectives that would generate global benefits, i.e., improving water quality in international 
waterways, mitigating climate change through carbon sequestration, and enhancing biodiversity in critical 
habitats.
 
4. Description 
Page  4
The project will utilize an integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach and will have three broad 
components: 
 
Component  1: Capacity Building for Community Driven Integrated Ecosystem Management  
 
Activities in the first component will focus on two areas of capacity building: (i) strengthening the local 
development and IEM planning capacity of rural communities and local governments through 
organizational and managerial support and transfer of technical knowledge; and (ii) capacity building at 
local and national levels for piloting carbon financing mechanisms. 
 
The project will work with village development committees that represent all stakeholders and are already 
active in village level development. The project will particularly encourage and support inter-village 
development coordination committees at  micro-catchments, catchments and watershed levels. The 
expected environmental benefits from the first component are: (i) an acknowledgement of key ecosystem 
management issues within and across communities; (ii) the creation of inter and intra-community land 
degradation mitigation and biodiversity conservation strategies; and (iii) the development of mechanisms 
for creation and management of carbon assets.    
 
Sub-component 1.1
:
Strengthen Local Development and IEM Planning
.
The project will strengthen 
local development and IEM planning capacities of communities to formulate, write, and submit  
Participatory Action Plans (PAPs) and proposals  for donors funding. PAPs will be prepared at the 
community level using participatory rural appraisal (PRA) methods. The project will also strengthen the 
land/IEM planning and M&E capacity of local governments by providing them with the necessary GIS 
databases, equipment and training.  
 
Pilot areas will be established to test and demonstrate PAP options, and to provide real-time learning as 
communities and households implement their project on their own land. The activities to be supported 
will include participatory adaptive on-farm research, farmer field schools, farmer-to-farmer exchanges, 
training of extension workers and rural development practitioners (NGOs, local development authorities, 
MoA extension staff), and development of extension messages. The  project will also assist communities 
with the identification and preparation of relevant management plans for critical non agro-ecosystem 
sites.  Inter-village plans will be established to address those key non-farm areas which are currently 
unprotected.   Local refugia will be identified and where little is known about endangered or endemic 
biodiversity, special attention will be given to the  identification of species, awareness raising and 
conservation planning. 
 
Technical  backstopping and facilitation of planning, implementing, and evaluating the program 
interventions  would  be provided by NGOs and other service providers, as well as KARI, KEFRI and 
World Agroforestry Center. The District Agriculture and Livestock Development Offices would perform 
the key role of interfacing with farmer organizations and liaising with the project coordination office.   
 
Sub-component 1.2
:
Enhanced  Capacity for Developing Carbon Finance Proposals. 
 To facilitate the 
participation of targeted communities in the global carbon market, the project will build the capacity of 
the government, local institutions, and communities. In particular, the project will enhance the ability of 
target communities to develop carbon financing proposals, measure baselines, and establish the 
administrative processes required to enter into carbon sequestration contracts. The project will also  
provide support to apex farmers’ organizations at the provincial and national levels, departments in 
charge of global environment conventions negotiations and implementation in the Ministry of 
Environment, and potential local and private sector operators willing to get involved in environmental 
markets. In particular the national carbon monitoring & evaluation and certification capacity will be 
Page  5
enhanced by developing such capacity within the national agricultural research system including Kenyan 
universities. 
 
Component 2: Scaling up and Financing IEM Interventions. 
The project will provide funds for the 
implementation of IEM activities identified in the first component. The component will also support two 
types of community-based sub-projects: village community sub-projects (involving one village) and inter-
village community sub-projects (involving several villages); both types of sub-projects would be financed 
through a matching grant program that would require community contributions. Further, the component 
will fund a select number of infrastructure development such as the closing of networks of gullies, the 
protection of river banks, or lake  banks, and the upgrading of access  roads. 
 
Small projects identified in the PAP plans may  also include the development of village nurseries to 
support agro-forestry, the development of existing biodiversity resources, support for alternatives to 
control land degradation, reduce sediment loss, and land management interventions to sequester carbon in 
agricultural landscapes. Expected environmental benefits are: (i) increased carbon sequestration through 
use of cover crops, and tree planting; (ii) decreased sediment load in surrounding water courses due to 
reduced erosion; and (iii) improved awareness and conservation of biodiversity at the community level. 
 
Component 3: Establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation System. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
activities are included as a separate component due to the technical requirements associated with 
quantifying environmental benefits and the importance of measuring progress on the project’s objectives.  
The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information for directly assessing the outcomes 
and impacts of the project, and also for refining working methodologies and procedures. The M&E 
system would, in addition to being responsible for project implementation, focus on two broad areas of 
impact: socioeconomic and biophysical. The expected environmental benefits are: (i) the measurement of 
changes in carbon stocks and biodiversity levels over the project lifetime, including a net-net accounting 
of GHG accumulation; (ii) the incorporation of environmental monitoring into local monitoring and 
evaluation exercises; and (iii) improved capacity for monitoring carbon stocks. 
 
The M&E would be carried out using participatory mechanisms, coupled with a strong technical and 
scientific component associated with biophysical measurement. These will build on methods generated 
under the targeted research activities of the project, and will consist of a mix of field surveys and remote 
sensing, some of  which were tested during the development of baseline data. The M & E system will be 
coordinated by the Project Coordination Office (PCO) with World Agroforestry Center and KARI 
undertaking most of the M & E activities. 
 
Measurement of carbon sequestration will be particularly challenging. Results of measurements will be 
accumulated  to produce “net-net accounting” of GHG  accumulation. Monitoring for greenhouse gasses 
will comply with the IPCC guidelines to the extent possible. Most of these procedures, however, were 
developed for Annex 1 countries for national reporting and may not be appropriate for village level 
projects in developing countries. Thus, provision is made for some targeted research activities to explore 
more cost effective monitoring options. 
 
Monitoring activities will also involve community level monitoring of action plans, using the “Impact 
Monitoring and Assessment” tools. Progress on the social, economic, agricultural and environmental 
objectives of the action plans will be assessed. Poverty levels will be assessed at the start of the project 
based on the 1999 census. In addition,  household data to assess change in poverty during the term of the 
project will be collected. The project will also monitor erosion and nutrient loss, the incidence of pests 
and diseases, and the impacts of these on the welfare of farmers in the project area.  
Much effort  was made to ensure the cost effectiveness of  the scientific element of the M&E  system.  
 
Page  6
5. 
Lessons learned and reflected in the project design 
 
PDF- B funds were provided to assist the Government of Kenya in the preparation of a project proposal 
based on baseline studies on biophysical and social aspects of the project area. The completed studies 
provided the following inputs that helped shape the project design: 
 
(i) Inventories of soils, land use and land cover identified the poor fertility status of the soils, as well as 
the extent and hot spots for erosion and soil degradation. An analysis of the results provided guidance on 
investment opportunities in agroforestry and other complementary activities to improve soil fertility, 
promote value added production, and promote global environmental benefits. 
 
(ii) Promotion of IEM interventions under the project must take into account the socio-economic aspect 
and community needs. The socio-economic surveys in Nyando have revealed that 54% of the rural 
populations live in poverty, and among the Luo people, about 35 % of the farms are headed by widows. 
Markets are primarily local, maize remains the dominant crop, but livestock activities are expanding.  
 
(iii) A spatially registered GIS data base has been established for the Nyando basin, consisting of Landsat, 
Spot and some QuickBird images. A preliminary analysis has identified high and low sources of erosion, 
as well as depositional areas for sediments. These findings are important for all present and future project 
activities to improve water quality in Lake Victoria as well as for carbon sequestration.  
 
(iv) Some preliminary estimates of carbon stocks were completed, and have to be extensively checked 
and improved. Nonetheless, they provide valuable opportunity for refining the monitoring of carbon over 
the life of the project. 
 
(v) Finally, procedures were identified to monitor poverty, sustainability, and project impacts. Much 
effort was also put into monitoring procedures for greenhouse gasses (CO2, N2O, and CH4), since current 
procedures are not well adapted for developing countries.     
 
6. 
Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection 
 
Several alternatives for the project were  considered before  the current proposal was presented: 
 
Linking with IDA or a stand alone GEF project.  
The baseline status of environmental management 
and agricultural production in Western Kenya is unsustainable. Evidence from studies indicate an 
extremely high rate of ecosystem degradation
.
In addition, key contributors to the problem of land 
degradation such as high population density and expanding cereal based cropping systems, are unlikely to 
change significantly in the short term. 
 
The Government  of Kenya has recognized the rapid decline in the natural environment and stagnation in 
agricultural production of Western Kenya as a  priority. A number of jointly funded  initiatives (see table 
below) are being implemented by Government, international donors, NGOs and community based 
organizations. An IDA funded community based development project is also anticipated in the next three 
years. These activities, which represent a move towards a sustainable baseline scenario, focus primarily 
on improved land use at the community and farm levels through integrated ecosystem management 
approaches. However, given the scale of land degradation, more will be needed to reach ecosystem 
sustainability. The proposed GEF alternative seeks to capture the additional off-farm benefits generated 
by integrated ecosystem management activities. By integrating improved land use and environmental 
service functions, the GEF alternative generates global environmental benefits and contributes to more 
sustainable agricultural productivity, and income. 
 
Page  7
Geographic focus and  coverage of the project: 
The first project proposal considered covering all lands 
in Western Kenya that fall within the Lake Victoria watershed. The priority districts were to be selected 
taking into account several criteria of GEF: carbon sequestration and biodiversity increment potential, 
severity of land degradation, and the proximity to reserves with significant degradation due to external 
pressure. This idea was abandoned because the area was too large and  the piloting of IEM approaches 
together with mainstreaming and scaling up of IEM interventions would have had very little impact 
including  high transaction costs. Instead, more impact can be achieved by focusing on a few river basins 
over the life of the project. The project will begin  implementation in the Nyando River basin and extend 
activities to the Yala and Nzoia River basins in the following years. Implementing the project in fewer 
river basins was also considered, however, because the project will have an important demonstration 
effect and is expected to attract further resources, three river basins were considered  appropriate. In 
addition, the learning opportunity provided by three basins, which vary in agro-ecological and 
socioeconomic characteristics, is likely to outweigh the benefits from increased coverage on just one river 
basin. 
 
Working only through the extension organization of MoA
:
Divisional and locational extension staff 
of the MoA will participate in the implementation of the project. In order to broaden the range of 
expertise available, however, and to give communities a choice of service  providers, other entities, such 
as, NGO’s, COSPFAP, and others, will also be enlisted to provide advice and assistance.   
 
7. Implementation 
 
KARI will be the lead implementing institution with technical backstopping and capacity building from 
World Agroforestry Center. A project coordination office (PCO) will be set up within KARI for the 
duration of the project and it will operate under the guidance and supervision of KARI.   The day-to-day 
coordination and monitoring of project activities would be handled  by the project coordination office 
located in Kisumu.  The role of the project coordination office will be: a) to release funds against agreed 
work plans; b) ensure that the institutions utilizing project funds set up proper accounting system and 
maintain proper accounts, and promptly claim reimbursements from IDA; c) coordinate project activities; 
d) monitor  and evaluate  the project as a whole to ensure effective implementation; and e) periodically 
hold meetings at selected places in the project area to review the progress made and problems 
encountered in the implementation of WKIEMP and to agree with district administration on a work plan.  
It will  also raise awareness, mobilize technical assistance, and  assist districts with their procurement 
where needed. 
 
The program will be demand-driven and implemented under a decentralized institutional arrangement. At 
the village/community level, village development committees (VDCs)  will be the main bodies for 
planning and implementing  approved development interventions. Members of the VDC include ex-
officio, assistant chief of the particular sub-location, NGOs representative, and the Development Agent 
(DA) responsible for extension services. To ensure safeguards, community representatives from  the 
constituent villages will be represented in the village development committee. 
 
The VDCs  will receive technical backstopping from KARI, KEFRI, World Agroforestry, MoA extension 
agents, NGOs, and other partners.  All of these institutions are members of the Consortium for Scaling up 
Options for Increased Farm Productivity (COSOFAP) in Western Kenya. The objectives of the 
consortium are to create forums for sharing information from users and service providers, exchanging 
experience among various stakeholders engaged in improving farm productivity and rural livelihoods, 
identifying existing capacity in the project area, and facilitating capacity building among communities to 
demand for technologies and services. 
 
Page  8
At the national level, the Technical Advisory Group (TAG) will provide lead coordination, and ensure 
that results meet the targets set by the project. . TAG draws its membership from concerned ministries 
including agriculture, environment, national museum, and NEMA. The main responsibilities of the TAG 
include: a) securing inter-agency coordination to ensure implementation of the project; b) recommending 
changes when necessary; c) reviewing progress of implementation every quarter and provide direction to 
the PCO; d) ensuring capacity building; and e) promoting  the integrated ecosystem approach. The TAG  
will be chaired by the Director of KARI and will meet quarterly. 
 
Financial Management
:
The project’s financial management system is designed to support efficient and 
effective delivery of outputs. Under the proposed arrangement, CBOs and farmer groups shall prepare 
quarterly  fund accountability statements to be reviewed and consolidated by VDCs. The PCO financial 
officer shall provide technical oversight capacity building, monitoring and coordination functions. He/she 
shall also be responsible for consolidating  district input into quarterly financial monitoring reports 
(FMR) and project financial statements.  
 
Disbursement Arrangements and Flow of Funds
:
Project funds will be controlled through special bank 
accounts managed by  the PCO.  The Government, through KARI, will maintain a separate Project 
Account where counterpart funds are deposited in agreed amounts and managed by the PCO to fulfill 
counterpart financing requirements.  
 
Procurement
:
Procurement in the project will take place at the national level as well at the local level. 
Each participating district will receive funds in tranches before applying for a second fund tranche. 
Financing will depend on application received from communities, and their procurement details will 
depend on the needs identified by the communities. Procurement would be carried out in accordance with 
the simplified procurement procedures provided in Bank’s procurement guidelines. The PCO  will be 
responsible for ensuring compliance with  these guidelines. Ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will 
be conducted periodically by the Bank and through independent technical staff, if necessary.   
 
Monitoring and Evaluation
:
Monitoring and Evaluation activities will be coordinated by the M&E 
officer in the PCO. Socio-economic data will be gathered at the community level during the project start-
up phase, at midterm, and towards the end of the project.  The World Agroforestry Center will undertake 
biophysical measurements (remote sensing as well as on-site data collection) in collaboration with the 
Department of soil science  at KARI. Further information on M &E  activities is contained in Annex 7.
 
8. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 1.0 
PHRD Grant 
0.5 
GEF 
 
4.5 
 Total 
6.0 
 
8. Sustainability 
 
The project strategy has been designed based upon lessons learned from previous experiences in order to 
ensure the sustainability of GEF-supported activities beyond the GEF funding period. Sustainability will 
be achieved through: (i) focusing on capacity building of local technical resource services, and producers; 
(ii) recognizing and capitalizing on the crucial role of local governments and local producer and 
community organizations to organize, promote, monitor and assess implementation; and (iii) utilizing 
Page  9
existing institutional structures to implement project activities and deliver outputs. Additionally, the 
project will fund community-based sub-projects, including some community infrastructure, the required 
funds for which would be determined based on  the community’s demonstrated ability to maintain the 
assets over the long term. With a view to further ensure sustainability of the activities beyond the project 
period, the project builds upon existing initiatives in government and non-governmental institutions, thus 
reducing the risks associated with the establishment of new initiatives.  
 
9. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Lessons drawn from the implementation experience of previous land management and agro-forestry 
projects in Kenya include the following: 
 
(i) The experience of the pilot project on soil recapitalization shows that institutional arrangements for 
project management and coordination work better if located in the field nearer the beneficiaries, and when 
stakeholders are closely associated with implementing organizations in the decision making processes. 
 
(ii) Farmer empowerment is essential for successful planning and implementation, and to ensure 
maintenance of assets in the future. 
 
(iii) Capacity building programs should cover the rural communities, but also the  implementers and 
service providers, e.g., the NGOs, CBOs, private trade and business partners. 
 
(iv) Awareness raising must be an essential element of pre-project activities, and should be continued 
during the term of the project and thereafter. 
 
(v) A promotional   program  that enables household-led activities to be managed as community-led 
umbrella projects should be part of the project strategy. Individual smallholder farmers, acting alone, are 
unlikely to reap optimal social and environmental benefits.  
 
10. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management Project is a safeguards category S2 and EA category 
B
project. A draft Environmental and Social Management Framework was disclosed on May 25
th
,
2004 
and a final version is being developed. The Environmental and Social Management Framework addresses 
the issues around  environmental and social issues  in project implementation and includes details on the 
roles and responsibilities of relevant institutions and individuals involved in developing and 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
implementing various aspects of the project, including mitigation measures for any adverse social or 
environmental aspects of the project.  
 
11. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
None. 
 
12. Contact point 
 
Berhane Manna 
Title: Senior Agriculturist 
Tel: (202) 458-9566 
Fax: (202) 473-8178 
Email: bmanna@worldbank.org 
 
13. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
