Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB404
Project Name                KENYA - Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Mgt.
Region                      Africa Regional Office
Sector                      General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                       Environmental policies and institutions (P); Biodiversity (P); Other environment
and natural resources management (S)
Project                     P072981
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
Implementing Agency(ies)    KARI AND ICRAF
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)
Address: P.O. Box 57811 Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Dr. Romano Kiome, Director
Tel: 254-2-583-290    Fax: 254 (0) 20583344     Email:
kiome-rm@kari.org
World Agroforestry Center
Address: P.O. Box 57811 Nairboi, Kenya
Contact Person: Dr. Dennis Garrity, Director General and Dr. Lou Verchot,
International Center for Research on Agroforestrty (ICRAF)
Tel: 254-4-521-003    Fax: 254-420524001       Email: Iverchot@cgiar.org
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared           October 9, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         January 10, 2004
Bank Approval Date          June 18, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
Agriculture is the key enterprise of Kenya's rural economy, providing livelihood to nearly 75 percent of the
Kenyans who live in rural areas. However, Kenyan agriculture has suffered from stagnant (and at times
negative) growth rates for a number of years. From the robust growth rates recorded in the seventies (6.8%
in 1977) the annual growth declined to -0.6 percent in 2000 and has risen to less than I percent today.
Rising population, a stagnant economy, and low food production have increased poverty and food
insecurity, leading to expansion of agriculture into marginal semi-arid lands, wetlands, woodlots and
natural forests. This has caused significant negative impact to fragile ecosystems through depletion of soil
fertility, loss of biodiversity and serious deterioration of environment.
Western Kenya supports one of the densest and poorest populations in the world, with up to 900
persons/sq. km in rural areas, and nearly 30-50 percent households subsisting on less than $ 16 a month.
Low agricultural productivity, high population pressure and lack of off-farm income opportunities have
contributed to low incomes and increasing land degradation. Both high and lowland areas are under threat
as marginal lands are increasingly brought under agricultural use and encroachment into remaining
woodlands, wetlands and natural forests causes land degradation, habitat destruction and biodiversity
losses.
Current smallholder practices are no longer adequate to meet food needs or maintain the resource base. Use



2
PID
of traditional land management methods such as fallowing kept land degradation under check in the past.
With pressure from an increasing population and greater food insecurity, this practice has been almost
abandoned, resulting in severe erosion and nutrient depletion. The subsequent sediment and nutrient loading
in watercourses has caused significant eutrophication of Lake Victoria. Rapid erosion has also created
large, fast growing gullies that encroach on valuable farmland.
Poverty reduction, environmental quality and sustainable agriculture are intricately linked in Western
Kenya. Intensification of land use is necessary to achieve farming systems that are more sustainable than
what is available today. Experiences from Central Kenya, where there is evidence of high productivity, high
profits, and good land management, are supportive of this relationship. Improved land management
techniques that focus on increasing soil fertility, such as agroforestry, provide the opportunity to achieve
sustainable agricultural intensification.
In addition to solving local problems of poverty and natural resource degradation, better farming practices
also provide global enviromnental benefits in areas of biodiversity, international waterways, and climate
change. The recent Land-Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry Report (2000) of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has identified land use techniques to convert degraded crop lands with the
largest potential to sequester carbon. Estimates of carbon accumulation rates range from 2 to 9 tonnes per
hectare per year, depending on the climate and the nature of the agroforestry practice.
Kenya has already acquired some experience and expertise in addressing the issues of land and soil
degradation in the western region through a number of initiatives focused on soil fertility and improved land
management (such as the Soil Management Project, Legume Research Network, and Agricultural
Technology and Infonnation Response Initiative). The proposed project would be implemented in Western
Kenya with the main purpose of scaling up the existing successes to cover a larger area and more fanning
communities.
2. Objectives
The project seeks to improve the productivity and sustainability of fanming systems through a set
interventions designed to promote adoption of improved land management techniques and value added
production in the Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia River Basins of Western Kenya. In order to achieve this, the
project will: (i) rehabilitate degraded lands through improved management of soil fertility, agroforestry, and
introduction of value-added cropping systems to promote food security and poverty reduction; and (ii)
improve capacity for local communities, fanmer associations, and national institutions to identify, fomiulate
and implement sustainable land management activities capturing local and global environmental benefits.
Project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby
communities direct and coordinate resources for infrastructure investments, technical assistance and
implementation of ecosystem management activities. The project would also seek to address constraints
that impede the adoption of integrated ecosystem management approaches, such as the absence of critical
data, lack of coordination and coordinating mechanisms, and low capacity for implementation.
Global Environmental Objective
The project development objective is consistent with the GEF Operational Program on Integrated
Ecosystem Management (OP 12), which supports comprehensive interventions that reflect the social,
economic and ecological aspects of sustainable natural resource management. Project activities in
improved land management and agroforestry will reduce the negative impact of agricultural activities on
the ecosystem, particularly sediment and nutrient loading in surrounding watercourses, as well as



3
PID
enhancing the potential to sequester additional above- and below-ground carbon. The project will provide
global environmental benefits in three of the four focal areas of OP 12 (biodiversity, international
waterways, and climate change) by promoting sustainable land management so as to capture the benefits of
reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the atmosphere, improved on and off fann biodiversity,
and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into Nyando, Yala and Nzoia River Basins.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank and the GEF are supporting seven projects in Kenya on smallholder productivity and incomes
with a strong nexus with the objectives aimed at improving biodiversity and environment. Three of these
are regional projects involving other countries besides Kenya. Africa wide Bank/GEF have implemented,
and are currently implementing several projects where environiental and biodiversity concerns and
potential solutions to address them transcend national boundaries. The Bank/GEF possess comparative
advantage in securing inter-country cooperation in such cases, and have the added advantage of making
available their considerable knowledge and experience in project design and institutional arrangements for
implementation that have worked in similar African conditions. The proposed project includes objectives
that would generate global benefits-improving water quality in Lake Victoria, mitigating climate change
through carbon sequestration and enhancing on fanrn biodiversity.
An additional added value of Bank and GEF participation in the project is the ability to exploit the lessons
learned from synergy between sustainable agricultural development and global environmental benefits,
which would help the Bank to replicate successful strategies and interventions across Africa and
elsewhere.
4. Description
It is proposed that the project would have three broad components.
Component 1: Capacity Building for Community Driven Sustainable Land Management. Activities in
the first component will focus on three areas of capacity building: fonnulation of decentralized action plans
called Participatory Action Plans (PAPs), technical assistance to promote adoption of improved land
management technologies, and capacity building for piloting carbon financing mechanisms. Activities
would utilize a demand-driven approach to mobilize communities to implement small scale interventions
involving agroforestry or other improved land management technologies.
Sub-conmponent 1: PAPs will be prepared at the community level using participatory rural appraisal (PRA)
methods. A PAP would strengthen the integration of stakeholders including smallholders, other producers,
NGOs, local government, and others by promoting their participation in decision-making councils at the
local, provincial and regional levels. The project will support fanmer associations and community/farner
organizations, which already are beginning to form in the area, and strengthen them through institutional
learning involving awareness building, training, and community mobilization. Emphasis will be on fanner
innovators who are community leaders. PAPs will be prepared with technical and institutional
backstopping from KARI and ICRAF.
Sub-conmponent 2: Technical assistance will be provided through technical backstopping, facilitation of
community and fanmer driven demand for extension services, and community learning. Project and GEF
resources will finance community meetings, technical assistance, infonmation campaigns, and stakeholder
workshops. Pilot areas will be established to test and demonstrate PAP options. Successful implementation
of these pilots will encourage the stakeholders to enlarge the coverage to other regions of the Lake Victoria
basin. The activities to be supported will include participatory adaptive on-fanm research with fanmers,
fanner field schools and community level documentation centers, fanner-to-farmer exchanges, training of



4
PID
extension workers and rural development practitioners (NGOs, local development authorities, MoA
extension staff), and development of extension messages. Technical backstopping or facilitation of
planning, implementing, and evaluating the program interventions could be provided by NGOs and other
service providers as well as KARI and ICRAF. District Agriculture and Livestock Development Offices
would perfonn the key role of interfacing with farner organizations and liaising with the project
coordination committee.
Suib-conmponent 3: In order to facilitate the participation of targeted commnunities in the global carbon
market, the project will build the capacity of the government, local institutions, and communities, and help
develop appropriate partnerships with the private sector. In particular, the project will enhance the ability
of target communities to develop carbon finance proposals, measure baselines, and establish the financial
and administrative processes required to enter into carbon sequestration contracts. The project will also
help develop partnerships between community organizations and the private sector for the provision of
technical assistance and the establishment ofjoint strategies.
Component 2: Scaling up and Financing Sustainable Land Management Interventions. The second
component will support implementation of improved land management activities identified in the first
component and finance investments in PAP identified sub-projects. Community sub-projects would be
financed through a matching grant program that would require community contributions. The component
will also fund infrastructure development for farmers and community organizations who will be the key
bodies for planning and implementing sub-projects or identified interventions.
Development and implementation of PAPs will complement currently ongoing projects in the area, namely
the Soil Management Project (SMP), Agricultural Technology and Information Response Initiative
(ATIRI), and Legume Research Network Project (LRNP). Small projects identified in the PAP plans may
include development of village nurseries to support agro-forestry, development of existing bio-diversity
resources, support for alternatives to control land degradation, reduce sediment loss, and land management
interventions to sequester carbon in agricultural landscapes. The ATIRI approach will be used to set up a
system of competitive bids to finance the PAP activities.
Component 3: Establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation System. Monitoring and Evaluation activities
are included as a separate component due to the technical requirements associated with quantifying
environmental benefits and the importance of measuring progress on project objectives.
The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information for directly assessing the outcomes
and impacts of the project, and also for refining working methodologies and procedures. The M & E system
would focus primarily on project impacts, project implementation will be monitored through project
administration. Monitoring will focus on two broad areas of impact, socioeconomic and biophysical. M&E
would be carried out using participatory mechanisms, however, a much stronger technical/scientific
component associated with biophysical measurement will be needed. These will build on methods generated
under the targeted research activities of the project, and will consist of a mix of field surveys and remote
sensing, some of which were tested during development of baseline data.
Measurement of carbon sequestration will be particularly challenging but results will be accumulated at the
end of the project to produce "net-net accounting" of carbon stocks. Thus, some targeted research activities
will explore more cost effective options.
Other monitoring activities will involve community level monitoring of action plans (PAPs), using the
"Impact Monitoring and Assessment" tools. Progress on the social, economic, agricultural and



5
PID
environmental objectives of the action plans will be assessed. Poverty levels will be assessed at the start of
the project based on the 1999 census, but in addition project staff will collect household data to assess
change in poverty during the term of the project. The project will also engage in erosion and nutrient loss
monitoring using standard procedures. The incidence of pests and diseases, and the impacts of these on the
welfare of fanmers in the project area will be monitored.
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($1.75)
IDA ($0.00)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($4.50)
Total Project Cost: $6.25
6. Implementation
The program will be demand-driven and will be implemented under a decentralized institutional
arrangement. At the village/community level the farmer organizations will be the main bodies for planning
and implementing the small projects or approved development interventions. The communities will be
assisted by NGOs and other partners including field extension service and research organizations, and they
will receive technical backstopping from KARL and ICRAF. Consultations with regional and national
leaders in MoA, KEFRI, local NGOs, and farmer groups were held during a workshop in December, 2000.
The concept of the project was endorsed at that time by all stakeholders. Although fanmer groups will be
the primary focus of the project, development and implementation of PAPs will be inclusive of non-farming
community members. Institutional arrangements for incorporating broader community concerns will be
further refined during appraisal.
Project implementation will be the joint responsibility of KARI and ICRAF. While communities would
drive and manage implementation of the project, the overall direction would be in the hands of the Project
Coordination Coimmriittee (PCC) which will provide lead coordination, establish and supervise the Project
Coordination & Monitoring Unit (PCMU) and ensure that results meet the targets set by the project. The
PCC will be chaired by the Director of KARI and will meet quarterly.
A Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) will be established through recruitment. This will
consist of a project coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation officer, a communication officer, a scientist,
and a number of field staff (gender balanced and to be detennined at appraisal) with satisfactory
qualification and experience in agriculture, livestock, forestry, and natural resources management. Their
main tasks will be to mobilize the community self-help groups, training and extension in the rural
communities, set up and manage the farmer field schools, develop training materials, supervise all project
activities. The role of the coordination unit will be to release funds against agreed work plans, disburse
funds to all implementing levels and coordinate monitoring and evaluation of the project as a whole. The
project coordination unit will not be an implementing agency. For extension and follow up, as well as for
securing the sustainability of the various activities, ICRAF/KARI would ensure arrangements with field
organizations of the Vi-Agroforestry and with MoA, which have extension agents in the project area. In
addition, the project will link closely with a recently fonmed agricultural extension consortium
(COSOFAP), which consists of almost 70 local organizations. This group will be important for replication
of results from this project to other areas. The project unit will also ensure collaboration with the Forest
Department and District Environment Officers for training and conducting field works.



6
PID
The estimated period of implementation of this project is five years. The GEF would meet the costs of
capacity building measures, and limited incremental operating costs of project management. Details would
be finalized during pre-appraisal/appraisal.
7. Sustainability
The main issue of sustainability is whether the investments that are undertaken will result in effective gains
in incomes in target communities, to the extent required to make fanners in the area economically
self-sustaining over time. The project will put funds in the hands of communities and encourage them to
seek technical assistance available nearby with the aim of using the funds for the activities envisaged in the
project.
The project strategy is designed to ensure the sustainability of GEF-supported activities beyond the GEF
funding period by: (i) focusing capacity building of local technical resource services, producers and land
managers; (ii) recognizing and capitalizing on the crucial role of local govenmments and the local producer
and community organizations to organize, promote, monitor and assess implementation; and (iii) utilizing
existing institutional structures to organize project activities and deliver outputs. This strategy reflects the
lessons learned from projects in Kenya (including World Bank financed and GEF supported projects) and
in other countries that have attempted to introduce new technical approaches in rural areas.
Another issue is the speed at which the funds will be able to flow to the beneficiaries. There is concern
about the shape of the financing instruments and its implications for speed of both processing and
implementation. However, by making application and screening procedures as simple as possible and by
providing ample funds for capacity building at all levels, it is expected that funds will flow at a relatively
faster speed.



7
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The implementation experience of previous land management and agro-forestry projects in Kenya helped
shape project design and include the following lessons:
(i) Stakeholder involvement at all stages of the project cycle from identification to implementation promotes
ownership and results in higher probability of success.
(ii) Fanner empowerment is essential for successful planning and imiplementation, and to ensure
maintenance of assets in future.
(iii) Development initiatives need to invest resources to mobilize communities and build their capacity to
ensure better implementation and future maintenance.
(iv) Capacity building programs should cover the rural communities, but also the implementers and service
providers e.g. the NGOs, CBOs, private trade and business partners.
(v) Awareness raising must be an essential element of pre-project activities, and continued during the tenr
of the project and thereafter.
(vi) Promoting organizational and program models that enable many household-led activities to be managed
as community-led umbrella projects should be part of the project strategy. Individual smallholder farners,
acting alone, are unlikely to reap optimal social and environmental benefits.
(vii) The experience of the pilot project on soil recapitalization shows that institutional arrangements for
project management and coordination work better if located in the field nearer the beneficiaries, and when
stakeholders are closely associated with implementing organizations in the decision making processes.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The proposed project seeks to improve ecological services and management of natural
resources at the comununity level. The implementation strategy for the project is designed to help in the
development and adoption of an integrated ecosystem management approach to the problems of rural
poverty and environmental degradation. The main activities to be pursued under the project such as
conservation agriculture, agroforestry, extensive use of tree fallows, crop diversification, increased planting
of trees on farms, and water management, make it an effective instrument to mitigate climate change
through carbon sequestration, enhance biodiversity conservation on and off-farn, and reduce sediment
loading to Lake Victoria. The project would have a positive impact on environmental management and
would not involve alteration of the physical landscape outside of individual or community initiated soil
fertility, agroforestry or land management activities.
Although the project is expected to produce net benefits in terms of natural resource management and
conservation, certain project activities related to improved land management may have environmental or
social impacts that require mitigation. KARI will supervise and publicly release an Environmental and
Social Management Framework to be used in project implementation.
10. List of factual technical documents:



8
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Berhane Manna
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-9566
Fax: (202) 477-0515
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



