                                                        KENYA
                                   Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management

                                                   Project Brief
                                                 Africa Regional Office
                                                        AFTS2


Date: April 15 , 2004                                   Team Leader: Berhane Manna

Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Country Manager/Director: Makhtar Diop
Project ID: P072981

Focal Area: M - Multi-focal area                        Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                                                        (100%)
                                                        Theme(s): Environmental policies and institutions (P),
                                                        Biodiversity (P), Other environment and natural resources
                                                        management (S)
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan        [ ] Credit    [ X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee      [ x ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost (US$m): $9.55                            Cofinancing: 5.45
Total Bank Financing (US$m): 4.1


Proposed Terms (IDA): GEF
Financing Plan (US$m):        Source                           Local            Foreign           Total
BORROWER                                                       2.75             0.00              2.75
PHRD                                                           0.40             0.00              0.40
SIDA                                                           2.30             0.00              2.30
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    4.10             0.00              4.10
Total:                                                         9.55             0.00              9.55

Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF KENYA

Responsible agency: KARI
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)
Address: P.O. Box 57811 Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Dr. Romano Kiome, Director
Tel: 254-2-583-290                Fax: 254 (0) 20583344               Email: kiome-rm@kari.org
Project implementation period: 5 years

                                             Table of Contents

A. Project Development Objective .....................................................................................3
B. Strategic Context ............................................................................................................5
C. Project Description Summary......................................................................................10
D. Project Rationale...........................................................................................................15
F. Sustainability and Risks...............................................................................................28
G. Main Loan Conditions...................................................................................................30
H. Readiness for Implementation.....................................................................................30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...................................................................................30
Annex 1: Log Frame Matrix.................................................................................................31
Annex 2: Incremental Cost Analysis..................................................................................35
Annex 3: STAP Technical Review and IA Response.........................................................43
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description...............................................................................56
Annex 5: Estimated Project Costs .....................................................................................63
Annex 6: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ........................................................................64
Annex 7: Financial Summary..............................................................................................75
Annex 8A: Procurement Arrangements.............................................................................76
Annex 8B: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements.............................82
Annex 9: Monitoring and Evaluation Plan..........................................................................87
Annex 10: Root Causes of Ecosystem Degradation .........................................................92
Annex 11: Biodiversity in Western Kenya..........................................................................95
Annex 12: Maps...................................................................................................................101

  A.     Project Development Objective

1. Background:

Western Kenya supports one of the densest and poorest populations in the world, with up to 1200
persons/sq. km in some rural areas, and over 58 percent of households living in absolute poverty. Low
agricultural productivity, high population pressure and lack of off-farm income opportunities have placed
great pressure on the natural resource base. Traditional land management in western Kenya relied on
fallowing of unproductive fields to restore fertility and decrease pest problems. High rural population
growth has made this practice untenable, leading to wide scale abandonment of fallowing and the search
for new agricultural land. At the local level, there has been little restriction on encroachment onto steep
slopes, wetlands, or forests, despite the existence of laws and regulations against such practices.

Conversion of woodlands, forests, and wetlands into agricultural production has accelerated in recent
years with significant negative impact on the natural resource base. Studies conducted in the context of
the Lake Victoria Integrated Land Management Project (LVILMP) uniformly indicate the occurrence of
severely accelerated land degradation in the Lake Victoria watershed. Measurements performed on
sediment cores collected in the Nyando estuary show that sedimentation rates of the basin have increased
fourfold over the last 100 years. (Walsh, unpublished data). Erosion loss has created large gullies that
advance at rates up to 200 meters per year and large quantities of sediment ­ discernible in satellite
images ­ are being deposited in the Winam Gulf of Lake Victoria.

Western Kenya's rich stock of biodiversity has suffered as a result of land degradation. For example, by
the mid 1980's, some 400 endemic species cichlid fish were approaching extinction due to encroachment
from water hyacinth and increasing eutrophication of Lake Victoria. Deforestation and loss of vegetative
cover has also resulted in a shortage of plant and tree resources. Native plant communities in western
Kenya include perennial grasslands interspersed with evergreen and semi-deciduous bushlands in
lowland areas, Cyperus spp. in inland valleys and at the river's outlet, and evergreen broadleaf forest in
the highlands. Over the last 150 years the most important land cover conversion pathways in the Nyando
basin have been characterized by substitutions of vegetation dominated by trees (characterized by a C3
photosynthetic pathway) to vegetation dominated by grasses (characterized by a C4 photosynthetic
pathway). Evidence from stable carbon isotope (i.e. d13C) studies, suggest that historically, grass and
cereal crop based land use types (Walsh et al., in prep.) are strongly associated with elevated soil erosion
risk in this environment.

Poverty reduction, land degradation, and sustainable agriculture are intricately linked in Western Kenya.
Experiences from Central Kenya, where there is evidence of high productivity, high profits, and good
land management, also are supportive of this relationship. Adoption of an ecosystem management (EM)
approach focused on: (i) participatory planning of land use and natural resources management at the
village, location, district, watershed and provincial levels; (ii) empowerment of communities with proven
technology, information and financial resources to make the best natural resource management (NRM)
investment decisions; and (iii) dissemination of agro-ecosystem management techniques such as
improved soil fertility and erosion control techniques, will be necessary to address problems of natural
resource degradation and achieve sustainable farming systems.

Better farming practices also provide global environmental benefits in areas of biodiversity, international
waterways, and climate change. The recent Land-Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry Report (2000) of
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has identified conversion of degraded crop lands
into agroforestry as the land-use practice with the largest potential to sequester carbon.

The Ministry of Agriculture and Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) have been actively
involved in disseminating improved agricultural technologies in Western Kenya with various government
and non-governmental partners. The proposed project would be implemented in Western Kenya with the
main purpose of scaling up the existing successes and introducing an ecosystem-wide approach to
achieve sustainable agriculture. The project is expected to demonstrate the value of such approach and
will help leverage Government, IDA or other resources for scaling up project successes in the future.

2. Project Development Objective: (see Annex 1)

The project seeks to improve the productivity and sustainability of land use systems in selected
watersheds in the Nzoia, Yala and Nyando river basins through adoption of an integrated ecosystem
management approach. In order to achieve this the project will: (i) support on and off farm conservation
strategies; and (ii) improve the capacity of local communities and institutions to identify, formulate and
implement integrated ecosystem management activities (including both on and off-farm land use
planning) capturing local and global environmental benefits.

The project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby
communities would decide on resources for infrastructure investments, technical assistance and
implementation of ecosystem management activities.

Global Environmental Objective

The global environmental objective of the project is to promote a set of ecosystem management
interventions so as to achieve local and global benefits. These benefits include reduced land degradation,
reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the atmosphere, improved on and off farm biodiversity,
and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia River Basins. The project
will use an integrated ecosystem management approach within the three river basins.

3. Key Performance Indicators: (see Annex 1)

Progress in achieving the development objectives would be monitored by specific indicators designed to
demonstrate or measure the following:

                 Performance Indicator                                           Target
   Community participation in assessment, planning,       50% community participation in village integrated
   decision making, implementation, and evaluation        ecosystem management planning exercises
   of integrated ecosystem management activities
  Participation of local and regional institutions in     60% of ecosystem management planning
  planning and coordinating ecosystem management          activities inclusive of local and/or regional
  activities                                              institutions
  Adoption rates of improved ecosystem management 20% of households in pilot villages, 10% in
  technologies or production practices                    surrounding villages
  Change in soil fertility and in land quality on land    20% increase in organic matter content of soils
  where improved land management technologies are in plots where the improved SLM technologies
  applied                                                 have been adopted
  Sequestration of above and below ground carbon as 100,000 tons for 30,000 hectares of project
  measured by ground survey and remote sensing            adoption area (3.3 tons/ha)
  Change in indigenous on- and off-farm biodiversity 10 % increase in abundance and diversity on
  in the surrounding project area as measured by          farms, 5 % increase in off-farm ecosystem
  ground survey and estimates of eco-system richness richness indicator, 50% of communities
                                                          identifying a conservation strategy for specific
                                                          threatened or endemic species in community


                                                                                                          4

                                                            plans, 5 % reduction in encroachment rate in
                                                            critical natural habitats in or around project
                                                            areas.
  Reduced erosion rates and sediment delivery in            10% percent reduction in erosion rates from
  watercourses surrounding project areas as measured farming plots receiving interventions
  by soil spectral analysis
  Reduced phosphorous runoff from agricultural land 20% reduction in phosphorous loads in key
  into key waterways.                                       waterways.


B.    Strategic Context

1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18391             Date of latest CAS discussion: September 2,1998

The Bank's next CAS is currently under preparation to take advantage of Kenya's recent submission of a
PRSP action plan and changeover in government. The proposed project is consistent with the draft CAS,
particularly with its focus on community based initiatives in the fight against poverty. In particular, this
project is seen as an important pilot activity contributing to the formation of a community driven
development project to be financed in 2007.

1a. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:

The proposed program activities support the objectives set out in the Operational Program # 12 on
Integrated Ecosystem Management. The program specifically provides global benefits with regards to the
`conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, `reductions in net emissions and increased
storage of green house gases', and the `conservation and sustainable use of waterbodies'. Furthermore,
the project supports OP12 outcomes for increased institutional capacity to implement integrated
ecosystem management, and investments based on stakeholder participation to address both domestic and
global environment benefits. The project further contributes to the GEF OP12 through the provision of
investments for integrated ecosystem management in a manner consistent with stakeholder priorities
through the application of a community driven methodology.

In particular, the project will build the capacity of village development committees (VDCs), District
Steering Committees (DSCs), and other local institutions to identify and manage ecosystem issues and
implement conservation or mitigation measures. Additionally, the project will address the linkages
between upstream and downstream land use practices through the development of community managed
integrated ecosystem management plans. Through supporting IEM planning, capacity building, awareness
raising, and improved farm management practices, the project will increase the sustainability of
agricultural land use and will protect habitats of critical importance. These two outcomes will have a
significant effect on the global environment. In particular, integrated ecosystem management
interventions such as sustainable land management will increase above and below ground carbon
sequestration (the top one meter of soil contains about 1.5 times the amount of carbon as above ground
biomass) while simultaneously reducing erosion and harmful agricultural runoff into waterways. The
project will also target improvements in the health of wetlands and other critical habitats. Similarly, the
protection and restoration of forest habitat for improved biodiversity will increase carbon sequestration,
reduce soil erosion and maintain hydrological cycles thereby having a positive effect on both climate
change and downstream land and water users.

Project activities are specifically linked to strategic priorities within OP 12 in the following areas:




                                                                                                            5

International Waterways. Western Kenya is located in the Lake Victoria Basin, which supports a
population of over 25 million and is fed by 11 major river basins in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda
and Burundi. In the past three decades, Lake Victoria has experienced significant environmental damage
from eutrophication, pollution, over fishing, and invasion by water hyacinth. The Nyando River Basin is
one the largest contributors of sediment flowing into the lake, with the highest sediment transport
capacity. Phosphorous runoff associated with agricultural production in upstream basins is also reducing
overall water quality including in Lake Victoria. Although regional efforts to mitigate environmental
degradation are underway, coordination remains a challenge and current initiatives are not sufficient to
reverse the damage. The project activities will focus on erosion control and water management on and
off-farm, thus contributing to reduced sedimentation and phosphorous runoff in watercourses draining
into the lake.

Biodiversity. Threats to critical biodiversity habitats in western Kenya include clearing or drainage of
land for cultivation, overgrazing, tree removal for local fuelwood use, sedimentation of wetlands caused
by erosion, and destruction of riverbanks through cultivation or removal of tree and plant vegetation.
Many of the critical habitats are in densely populated areas and are under threat from agricultural induced
encroachment.

The project will impact biodiversity in three ways: (i) through protection of small but important critical
habitats in the primary project intervention area; (ii) through reduced pressure on critical habitats in the
secondary project area (Nzoia, Yala, and Nyando catchments); and (iii) through increased biodiversity in
the on-farm environment. The primary project area (900 km2 sites in Nyando, Yala and Nzoia basins)
includes several critical natural habitats that are being preserved by local communities. The project will
assist communities to improve conservation strategies and maintain and improve the biodiversity in
critical sites. Lack of data on smaller critical habitats prevents a full listing of biodiversity in the area but
greater detail will be provided during project implementation. Community biodiversity surveys will be
conducted as part of the project's community IEM planning activities and baseline data will be collected
and monitored throughout the project.

Box 1 includes some of the major areas that are under threat from encroaching agricultural production.
Dunga, Kusa and Yala papyrus swamps are home to cichlid fish species that are declining in population in
the main lake. The swamps are also home to globally threatened bird species such as Papyrus Yellow
Warbler and Papyrus Gonolek. The Kusa swamp is particularly close to one of the proposed project
intervention areas in the Nyando catchment around the town of Paponditi. West Kano Bird Sanctuary is
also in the Nyando catchment and is under threat from poor land management practices upstream. Other
localized refugia (forest fragments, grasslands, shrublands) and riparian ecosystems around tributaries are
located near several of the project intervention areas and are home to a number of different species.

Further, a number of species that are native to or have a migratory presence in the project area are on the
IUCN red list as threatened by agricultural induced land degradation (see Annex 11 for a detailed listing).

In addition to critical habitat protection, the project is also expected to contribute to biodiversity
conservation in the general catchments area through reduced pressure on critical habitats and soil fertility
replenishment, which will enhance biodiversity by increasing heterogeneity in the landscape leading to
increased above and below ground biodiversity. Increased heterogeneity will create more ecosystem
niches and increase habitats for different species. Project activities such as tree fallows and other
agroforestry systems will also contribute to satisfying the demand for fuel wood, leading to less
encroachment on forests and woodlands.




                                                                                                                 6

 Box ­ 1. Kenya is home to 25,000 species of animal and 7,000 species of plants. Western Kenya has a
 variety of forest, grassland and wetland habitats that include both common and endangered species. Several
 ecologically sensitive sites are under threat from agricultural induced encroachment. A few large forest
 reserves can be found in western Kenya, but many smaller forest fragments, grasslands and wetlands that are
 home to threatened or endangered species are not formally protected. Forest fragments, grasslands, wetlands
 and riparian areas are critical natural habitats that serve as important refugia for a variety of endemic and
 threatened species. Wetland areas in the project area play an important role as water filters, fish nurseries and
 migratory and endemic bird habitats. Traditional groves and other forest fragments are among the last
 remaining areas outside of protected forest reserves where a high density of endemic plant species can be
 found. The project area also has a number of small riparian zones around the major rivers and their tributaries.
 Riparian areas often form unique ecosystems that do not extend beyond the narrow boundaries of the river and
 are home to species not found in the general catchment zone. Grass or shrublands are easy targets for
 conversion to agricultural lands but are also important ecosystems for small mammal and bird species.

  Critical habitats in the primary project intervention area include:

 ·    Ainabngetuny, Mbogo, Nyando and Awach tributaries (Nyando catcthment)
 ·    Nzoia and Yala river tributaries (Nzoia and Yala catchments)
 ·    Forest fragments around Lugari and Kaimosi (Nzoia and Yala catchments)
 ·    Yala Nature Reserve (Yala catchment)
 ·    Yala swamp and Lake Kanyaboli (Nzoia catchment)
 ·    West Kano Bird Sanctuary (Nyando Catchment)
 ·    Dunga, and Kusa Swamps (Nyando Catchment)
 ·    Localized refugia (all catchments)

Climate change. Integrated ecosystem management approaches will draw on agroforestry and other land
management techniques that also deliver benefits in the area of carbon sequestration. The IPCC estimates
of carbon accumulation rates range from 2 to 9 MT/ha/year, depending on the climate and the nature of
the agroforestry practice. Although an important factor in reducing global levels of Greenhouse Gases
(GHG), the potential for carbon sequestration is generally ignored at national and local levels in
developing countries. Project activities incorporating carbon benefits have the potential to link global
climate change priorities to local initiatives.

The project will also contribute to GEF operational goals by serving as a catalyst to promote integrated
ecosystem management in Western Kenya. This is particularly important as many land management
interventions in Western Kenya focus on the farm level rather than the wider ecosystem. The project's
focus on capacity building and technical assistance will increase the ability of local and national
institutions to achieve sustainable natural resource management.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

Agriculture provides livelihood to nearly 75 percent of the Kenyans who live in rural areas. It has,
however, suffered from stagnant (and at times negative) growth rates for a number of years. The decline
in Kenya's agriculture sector and natural resource base are closely linked. Poor land management and
high population density contributed to land degradation, which, in turn, lead to low agricultural
productivity and expansion of cultivation into marginal or fragile lands. This cycle is readily apparent in
Western Kenya where rural population density reaches up to 1200 persons per km2 and average farm
holdings have declined to half a hectare in some areas. Competition between cropping and other land use
systems is increasing and the scale of land degradation is quite high. The region's erosion prone soil
physical structure and high HIV/AIDS rate also contribute to low agricultural productivity. As a result,
western Kenya, which has good rainfall, has nonetheless experienced increasing rates of poverty.
Together, Nyanza and the Western provinces have among the highest incidence of poverty in the country.




                                                                                                                   7

The high levels of nutrient and soil loss that cause land degradation and biodiversity loss are primarily
linked to accelerated water runoff, deforestation, human or animal induced vegetation loss on slopes and
waterways, and deterioration in soil chemical properties from agricultural production. Communities have
relatively limited awareness about upstream or downstream problems and mechanisms for addressing
land degradation across administrative and geographical boundaries have been slow to develop.
Watershed management falls within the mandate of several institutions namely the Ministry of
Agriculture (MoA), Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MoENR), Ministry of Water
Resources, and Local Government Administrations.

Kenya's PRSP Action Plan of September 2002, and the new Government's Economic Recovery Plan
2003-2007 have all identified mutlisectoral approaches to natural resource management as a priority for
development. Emphasis has been placed on creating a more demand driven and pluralistic extension
system through the implementation of the National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Program.

Government's reorientation towards more participatory and demand driven approaches has also been
extended in the country's main research institutes. The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)
and Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI) have been restructured so that research activities are more
client focused and participatory. Both institutes are active in developing and disseminating improved
technologies through regional centers and have developed linkages with government and non-government
extension agents. KARI and KEFRI have also partnered with the Ministry of Agriculture a number of
sustainable land management initiatives in western Kenya such as the National Agriculture and Livestock
Extension Program, Soil Management Project, Legume Research Network, Agricultural Technology and
Information Response Initiative, and Lake Victoria Improved Land Management Program.

Kenya is also in the process of devolving greater power to local authorities with the twin objectives of
utilizing existing capacity better and developing new skills where there is a gap aimed at improving
service delivery and governance. The Government has launched studies on Local Government Reform
and Constitutional Review in order to identify and remove bottlenecks to improved service delivery.

 Kenya was among the early signatories of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and ratified
the convention in 1994. It has actively participated in meetings of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to
CBD, and hosted the most recent meeting (COP-5) with UNEP in May 2000. In order to demonstrate its
commitment to biodiversity conservation, the government is implementing a series of initiatives
including:

·    Completion of the National Biodiversity Strategy and its corresponding Action Plan;
·    Preparation of the first report to the COP in 1998 in accordance to the obligations under the CBD to
     report on progress made in respect to implementations of articles 6 through 8 of the CBD;
·    Implementation by the national government of the GEF-supported Tana River Primate National
     Reserve Project;
·    Implementation by the national government of two regional GEF-supported projects Lake Victoria
     Environmental Management Project and East African Cross-Border Biodiversity Project; and
·    Kenya has designated several areas as important for conservation, including National Parks, Reserves,
     Wildlife Sanctuaries, National Monuments, Biosphere Reserves, World Heritage Sites and Ramsar
     sites.

The principles of the National Biodiversity Strategy (Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources,
2000) recognize that "population and poverty issues are the ultimate causes of biodiversity loss, and can
only be meaningfully addressed as national development goals." Poverty alleviation, increased
agricultural productivity, employment creation, and population control are all key elements in the
National Biodiversity Strategy. Agrobiodiversity is particularly singled out in the Strategy and the


                                                                                                         8

promotion of farming practices that conserve agricultural ecosystems is a key component of the strategy.
Finally, the Strategy recognizes degradation of aquatic resources as a key element in biodiversity loss and
recognizes impacts of upstream resource use on downstream ecosystems.

Finally, the objectives of this project are consistent with the aims and objectives of NEPAD (the New
Partnership for Africa's Development) and corresponds to NEPAD priorities on agriculture, the
environment and empowerment.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The Government's Economic Recovery Plan singled out the Nyando and Nzoia river basins as priority
areas for rehabilitation. The project will address the agricultural and natural resource management sector
issues identified above by:

(a)      Promoting an integrated approach to natural resource management: The project will pursue
interventions that target the physical, social and economic aspects of ecosystem degradation. The
integrated ecosystem management framework is based on the premise that there are social, economic, and
biophysical interactions between the goals for production of environmental goods and services that are
desired by different stakeholders. Reconciling conflicting goals and uses of land is a critical challenge for
land management. Understanding how land-use decisions and management practices affect the
production of different ecosystem goods and services is necessary for sustainable management of the
agricultural landscape.

(b)      Linking upstream and downstream interventions: Project interventions will be implemented in
highland, midland and lowland areas in order to capture the physical diversity of the watershed and
achieve greater results at the catchment level. The project will explore upstream-downstream linkages,
particularly in relation to biodiversity conservation and international waters, to increase the effectiveness
of ecosystem interventions. Detailed maps of each river basin and the areas of intervention are included in
Annex 12.

(c)      Embedding project activities in local government processes. The project will be implemented at
the village level with support from district administration. The project has been placed within the
structure of local government to increase sustainability and avoid parallel service delivery systems.

(d)      Incorporating global environmental benefits into local development priorities: The inclusion of
environmental service functions (such as the erosion control provided by reforestation) into project
activities would generate greater development impact by increasing agricultural sustainability and output.
Environmental services, particularly those associated with carbon sequestration, also have the potential to
generate new types of assets that benefit local communities.

(e)      Choosing a CDD approach: The project's demand driven mechanism builds on the high level of
social capital in western Kenya, the experience in other parts of the country, and the Government's
renewed pledge to decentralization. Communities would play a lead role in articulating their needs,
developing and implementing plans which address these needs.

(f)      Seeking complementarity with other programs: The project seeks to build on and complement
the success of other natural resource management projects in the area, such as the Soil Management
Project (SMP), Agricultural Technology and Information Response Initiative (ATIRI), Legume Research
Network Project (LRNP), and the SIDA sponsored Lake Victoria Project. Linkages with the second GEF-
financed Lake Victoria Management Program (LVMPII) will also be further developed. While LVMP II




                                                                                                             9

will focus on trans-boundary lake management issues, this project will support the on-the-ground
improved watershed management investments which will improve the management of Lake Victoria.

(g)     Laying the groundwork for future IDA financed projects: In developing the Bank's new
Country Assistance Strategy, the Government of Kenya has requested IDA financing for a community-
driven development (CDD) project in western Kenya for 2007. This new project will build on the
experiences of the proposed GEF project. While the two projects will be administered separately, they
will use the same implementation mechanisms. Given the acute need for community based development
and land degradation interventions, the current project will help fill the gap until the new project becomes
effective.


C.      Project Description Summary

1. Project components (see Annex 1):

The project will utilize and integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach. Ecosystems are important
not only for the utility they provide in the form of production of "goods" or commodities, but also for the
maintenance of critical "services" (water supply, soil fertility). Where goals for production of ecosystem
goods and services conflict with one another, IEM is a means of balancing the increased production with
environmental protection. The overall goal for the project is therefore to improve ecosystem performance
in terms of biological productivity, integrity, maintenance and sustainability while at the same time
ensuring that these improvements can be adopted by farmers and decision-makers at various levels and
they result in poverty alleviation and farmers empowerment.

A key element of IEM in the project will be linking upstream and downstream communities to better
management the river catchment as a whole. This will be accomplished through planning and financing of
interventions that incorporate cross-community concerns.

The project will have three broad components:

Component 1: Capacity Building for Community Driven Integrated Ecosystem Management

Activities in the first component will focus on two areas of capacity building: (i) Strengthening the local
development and IEM planning capacity of rural communities and local governments through
organizational and managerial support and transfer of technical knowledge; and (ii) capacity building at
local and national levels for piloting carbon financing mechanisms.

The project will work with village development committees that represent all stakeholders and are already
active in village level development. The project will particularly encourage and support inter-village
development coordination committees at micro-catchments, catchments and watershed levels. The
expected environmental benefits from the first component are: (i) an acknowledgement of key ecosystem
management issues within and across communities; (ii) creation of inter and intra-community land
degradation mitigation and biodiversity conservation strategies; and (iii) development of mechanisms for
creation and management of carbon assets.

Sub-component 1.1: Strengthen Local Development and IEM Planning. The project will strengthen
local development and IEM planning capacities of communities to formulate, write, and submit
Participatory Action Plans (PAPs) and proposals for donors funding. PAPs will be prepared at the
community level using participatory rural appraisal (PRA) methods. The project will also strengthen the
land/IEM planning and M&E capacity of local governments by providing them with necessary GIS
database , equipment and training.


                                                                                                          10

Pilot areas will be established to test and demonstrate PAP options, and to provide real-time learning as
communities and households implement their project on their own land. The activities to be supported
will include participatory adaptive on-farm research, farmer field schools, farmer-to-farmer exchanges,
training of extension workers and rural development practitioners (NGOs, local development authorities,
MoA extension staff), and development of extension messages. The project will also assist communities
with the identification and preparation of relevant management plans for critical non agro-ecosystem
sites. Inter-village plans will be established to address those key non-farm areas which currently aren't
protected. Local refugia will be identified and where little is known about endangered or endemic
biodiversity, special attention will be given to species identification, awareness raising and conservation
planning.

Technical backstopping and facilitation of planning, implementing, and evaluating the program
interventions would be provided by NGOs and other service providers as well as KARI, KEFRI and
World Agroforestry Center. The District Agriculture and Livestock Development Offices would perform
the key role of interfacing with farmer organizations and liaising with the project coordination office.

Sub-component 1.2: Enhanced Capacity for Developing Carbon Finance Proposals. To facilitate the
participation of targeted communities in the global carbon market, the project will build the capacity of
the government, local institutions, and communities. In particular, the project will enhance the ability of
target communities to develop carbon financing proposals, measure baselines, and establish the
administrative processes required to enter into carbon sequestration contracts. The project will also
provide support to apex farmers organizations at the provincial and national levels, departments in charge
of global environment conventions negotiations and implementation in the Ministry of Environment,
potential local and private sector operators willing to get involved in environmental markets. In particular
the national carbon monitoring-evaluation and certification capacity will be enhanced by developing such
capacity within the national agricultural research system including Kenyan universities.

Component 2: Scaling up and Financing IEM Interventions. The project will provide funds for the
implementation of IEM activities identified in the first component. The component will also support two
types of community-based sub-projects: village community sub-projects (involving one village) and inter-
village community sub-projects (involving several villages), both types of sub-projects would be financed
through a matching grant program that would require community contributions. Further, the component
will fund a select number of infrastructure development such as closing of networks of gullies, protection
of river banks, or lake banks, and upgrading of access roads.

Small projects identified in the PAP plans may also include development of village nurseries to support
agro-forestry, development of existing bio-diversity resources, support for alternatives to control land
degradation, reduce sediment loss, and land management interventions to sequester carbon in agricultural
landscapes. Expected environmental benefits are: (i) increased carbon sequestration through use of cover
crops, and tree planting; (ii) decreased sediment load in surrounding watercourses due to reduced erosion;
and (iii) improved awareness and conservation of biodiversity at the community level.

Component 3: Establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation System. Monitoring and Evaluation
activities are included as a separate component due to the technical requirements associated with
quantifying environmental benefits and the importance of measuring progress on project objectives.
The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information for directly assessing the outcomes
and impacts of the project, and also for refining working methodologies and procedures. The M&E
system would, in addition to project implementation, focus on two broad areas of impact, socioeconomic
and biophysical. The expected environmental benefits are: (i) measurement of changes in carbon stocks
and biodiversity levels over the project lifetime including a net-net accounting of GHG accumulation; (ii)


                                                                                                          11

incorporation of environmental monitoring into local monitoring and evaluation exercises; and (iii)
improved capacity for monitoring carbon stocks.

Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out using participatory mechanisms, coupled with a strong
technical and scientific component associated with biophysical measurement. These will build on
methods generated under the targeted research activities of the project, and will consist of a mix of field
surveys and remote sensing, some of which were tested during the development of baseline data. The M
& E system will be coordinated by the project coordination office (PCO), with World Agroforestry Center
and KARI undertaking most of the M & E activities.

Measurement of carbon sequestration will be particularly challenging. Results of measurements will be
accumulated to produce "net-net accounting" of GHG accumulation. Monitoring for greenhouse gasses
will be in accord with the IPCC guidelines to the extent possible. Most of these procedures, however,
were developed for Annex 1 countries for national reporting and may not be appropriate for village level
projects in developing countries. Thus, provision is made for some targeted research activities to explore
more cost effective monitoring options.

Monitoring activities will also involve community level monitoring of action plans, using the "Impact
Monitoring and Assessment" tools. Progress on the social, economic, agricultural and environmental
objectives of the action plans will be assessed. Poverty levels will be assessed at the start of the project
based on the 1999 census. In addition, household data to assess change in poverty during the term of the
project will be collected. The project will also monitor erosion and nutrient loss, the incidence of pests
and diseases, and the impacts of these on the welfare of farmers in the project area.
Efforts was put into the scientific element of the M&E system to ensure that it would be cost effective.

  Indicative Project Cost by Component

                                            Indicative            Bank      % of        GEF        % of
 Component                                  Costs      % of       financing Bank        financing GEF
                                            (US$M)     Total      (US$M)    financing   (US$M)     financing
  1. Capacity Building for Community        4.6        47.0       0.00      0.0         1.1        20
  Driven Integrated Ecosystem
  Management
  2. Scaling up and Financing IEM           1.65       18.0       0.00      0.0         1.25       28
  Interventions
  3. Establishing a Monitoring and          1.3        14.0       0.00      0.0         0.75       17
  Evaluation System
  Project Coordination                      1.40       15.0       0.00       0.0        1.0        22

 Total Project Costs                        9.55       100.0      0.00      0.0         4.1        100.0
 Total Financing Required                   4.1        100.0      0.00      0.0         4.1        100.0




2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:

The small scale of the project and its relatively narrow scope makes it an unlikely instrument for policy
and institutional reforms. The institutional arrangements for project implementation are based on a
decentralized model of governance, and the project is expected to benefit from further decentralization.
Implementation would be coordinated by a committee of implementing institutions based in the field, and
stakeholder oversight of program implementation by the coordination committee would be provided by a
technical advisory group (TAG).


                                                                                                            12

3. Benefits and target population:

Target population. The project will be implemented in Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia River Basins, which
together, support a population of nearly 7 million. Approximately 75% of the area within these basins is
classified as agro-ecosystems. The total area of the three basin is about 20,000 sq. km (Nyando 3,550 sq.
km., Yala 3,364 sq. km., and Nzoia 12,984 sq. km.). The project area will consist of approximately nine
100 sq.km focal areas (FA's), three for each river basin. Focal areas within basins will be stratified by
elevation zones to include: Lowlands, 1134-1440 m, Midlands, 1440-1890 m and Highlands >1890 m
a.s.l. slope.

Focal areas will represent 8.5% of the land area of Nyando basin, 8.9% of Yala a and 2.3 % of Nzoia.
Population and land use vary within each strata and there are strong associations between this zonation
and variables related to population density, land use, soil condition and production ecology.

The project area includes a diversity of livelihood strategies and local cultural norms and groupings.
Such differences, in combination with the agro-ecological circumstances identified above, affect access to
resources, the agriculture mix, petty business and other non farm activities households rely on for
income. People from six major ethnic groups (Abagusii, Luo, Masai, Abasuba, Kuria and the Kipsigis)
inhabit the districts falling within the project area. The primary livelihood strategy for about 80 percent of
the population in the three river basins is farming. Livestock ownership forms an important part of the
household asset base for both farmers and pastoralists. HIV/AIDS rates in Western Kenya are among the
highest in the country and have left a growing number of rural households widowed or orphaned. Women
headed households represent up to 35 percent of households in some project areas.


Benefits.
Benefits from the project would have impact at local, national and global levels.

At the local level the project would contribute to mitigating the problems of unsustainable land-use
practices, declining productivity, environmental degradation and food security, and improve the
livelihoods of the people. The project would promote IEM approaches that can provide multiple benefits
(increased nitrogen in the soil, increasing on farm fuel wood production, reduced erosion, carbon
sequestration, etc.;). In addition, cultivation of medicinal plants would bring additional income to
households practicing agroforestry and tree crops.

At the national, provincial and district level the project would promote rural development strategies that
integrate eco-system concerns ­ including targeting, and prioritization of activities. The project would
also support local social organizational structures (village and rural community) which are able to address
and evaluate ecosystem concerns, particularly those of importance to more than one village.

At global levels the project's contribution would be to reduce soil degradation, improve biomass
production and sequester above and below ground carbon, and reduced erosion and phosphorous runoff
into watercourses draining into Lake Victoria. Carbon sequestration is expected to be significant with
land use conversion to agro-forestry systems particularly in the sub-humid areas of western Kenya. This
would provide benefits towards mitigating greenhouse gas effects on the global climate. The project
would also benefit several unique habitats in this area that are of national and global significance. Finally,
the project would contribute to commitments made under several global conventions, in particular the
Convention on Biodiversity, UN Framework on Climate Change, and Convention to Combat
Desertification.




                                                                                                            13

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

The program will be demand-driven and implemented under a decentralized institutional arrangement. At
the village/community level, village development committees (VDCs) will be the main bodies for
planning and implementing approved development interventions. Members of the VDC include ex-
officio, assistant chief of the particular sub-location, representative of NGOs, and the Development Agent
(DA) responsible for extension services. To ensure safeguards, community representatives from the
constituent villages will be represented in the village development committee.

The VDCs will receive technical backstopping from KARI, KEFRI, World Agroforestry, MoA extension
agents, NGOs, and other partners. All of these institutions are members of the Consortium for Scaling up
Options for Increased Farm Productivity (COSOFAP) in western Kenya. The objectives of the
consortium are to create forums for sharing information from users and service providers, exchanging
experience among various stakeholders engaged in improving farm productivity and rural livelihoods,
identifying existing capacity in the project area, and facilitating capacity building among communities to
demand for technologies and services.

The existing Location Development Committees (LDCs) consisting of extension agents, project staff or
service providers, would help prepare and collate VDC plans.

Implementation of selected proposals will be carried out under the close supervision of the project
coordination office and the District Steering Committees (DSCs). The DSCs (covering a number of
villages in the designated area and consisting of representatives of line ministries, NGOs and
communities) will ensure that selected proposals are implemented and that results meet the targets set by
the project. Because capacity varies between the districts, training modules will be developed based on
need assessment and analysis.

At the national level, the Project Advisory Group (PAG) will provide lead coordination, and ensure that
results meet the targets set by the project. The PAG will be chaired by the Director of KARI and will
meet quarterly.

The day-to-day coordination and monitoring of project activities would be managed by the project
coordination office (PCO) located in Kisumu. The PCO will be established through recruitment and will
consist of a project coordinator, a financial officer, a procurement officer, monitoring and evaluation
officer, and two to three field staff (gender balanced) with satisfactory qualification and experience in
natural resources management and agroforestry. The role of the coordination office will be to release
funds against agreed work plans, and coordinate monitoring and evaluation of the project as a whole. It
will facilitate and account for the flow of funds, raise awareness, mobilize technical assistance, and assist
districts with their procurement where needed. The main tasks of the field staff will be to supervise and
ensure smooth implementation of community sub-project activities. Activities relating to mobilizing
community self-help groups, organizing exchange of visits, community based study programs for
community leaders and their members, and developing training materials will be contracted out to service
providers.

The institutional arrangements for the project will be further refined during appraisal and in the Project
Implementation Manual.

Financial Management: The project's financial management system is designed to support efficient and
effective delivery of outputs. Under the proposed arrangement, CBOs, and farmer groups shall prepare
quarterly fund accountability statements to be reviewed and consolidated by VDCs. These shall be
remitted to District Administration through LDCs. The District Accountant shall be responsible for their



                                                                                                          14

summarization and reporting to the PCO. The PCO financial officer shall provide technical oversight
capacity building, monitoring and coordination functions. He/she shall also be responsible for
consolidation of district input into quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMR) and project financial
statements.

Qualified and experienced independent auditors will be appointed on approved terms of reference. The
external audit will cover both the Grant Funds as well as the counterpart funds at all levels of project
execution.

Disbursement Arrangements and Flow of Funds: Project funds will be controlled through special bank
accounts managed by a PCO. The Government, through KARI, will maintain a separate Project Account
where counterpart funds are deposited in agreed amounts and managed by the PCO to fulfill counterpart
financing requirements. The chart in Annex 6B illustrates the proposed banking and funds flow
arrangements.

Procurement: Most of the procurement in the project will be in the form of small transactions taking
place locally at the sub-location, location and district levels. Each participating district will receive funds
in tranches before applying for a second fund tranche. Financing will depend on application received from
communities and their procurement details will depend on the needs identified by the communities.
Procurement would be carried out in accordance with simplified procurement procedures in Bank
procurement guidelines. The PCO will be responsible for ensuring compliance of these guidelines. Ex-
post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and through independent
technical, if necessary.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and Evaluation activities will be coordinated by the M&E
officer in the PCO and implemented primarily by KARI and World Agroforestry Center. Socio-economic
data will be gathered at the community level during the project start-up phase, at midterm, and towards
the end of the project. The World Agroforestry Center will undertake biophysical measurements (remote
sensing as well as on site data collection) in collaboration with soil science department at KARI. Further
information on M &E activities is contained in Annex 7.

D.       Project Rationale


1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

Several alternatives for the project have been considered before presenting the current proposal:

Linking with IDA or a stand alone GEF project. The baseline status of environmental management
and agricultural production in Western Kenya is unsustainable. Evidence from studies indicate an
extremely high rate of ecosystem degradation. In addition, key contributors to the problem of land
degradation such as high population density and expanding cereal based cropping systems, are unlikely to
change significantly in the short term.

The Government of Kenya has recognized the rapid decline in the natural environment and stagnation in
agricultural production of Western Kenya as a priority. A number of jointly funded initiatives (see table
below) are being implemented by Government, international donors, NGOs and community based
organizations. An IDA funded community based development project is also anticipated in the next three
years. These activities, which represent a move towards a sustainable baseline scenario, focus primarily
on improved land use at the community and farm level. However, given the scale of land degradation,
more will be needed to reach ecosystem sustainability. The proposed GEF alternative seeks to capture the
additional off farm benefits generated by integrated ecosystem management activities. By integrating


                                                                                                             15

improved land use and environmental service functions, the GEF alternative generates global
environmental benefits and contributes to more sustainable agricultural productivity, and income.

Geographic focus and coverage of the project: The first project proposal considered covering all lands
in western Kenya that fall within the Lake Victoria watershed. The priority districts were to be selected
taking into account several criteria of GEF, carbon sequestration and biodiversity increment potential,
severity of land degradation, and the proximity to reserves with significant degradation due to external
pressure. This idea was abandoned because the area was too large and the piloting of IEM approaches
together with mainstreaming and scaling up of IEM interventions would have had very little impact
including high transaction costs. Instead, more impact can be achieved by focusing on a few river basins
over the life of the project. The project will begin implementation in the Nyando River basin and extend
activities to the Yala and Nzoia River basins in the following years. Implementing the project in fewer
river basins was also considered however, because the project will have an important demonstration effect
and is expected to attract further resources, three river basins was judged appropriate. In addition, the
learning opportunity provided by three basins, which vary in agro-ecological and socioeconomic
characteristics, is likely to outweigh the benefits from increased coverage on just one river basin.

Working only through the extension organization of MoA: Divisional and locational extension staff
of the MoA will participate in implementation of the project. In order to broaden the range of expertise
available, however, and to give communities choice among providers of services, other entities, such as
NGO's, COSPFAP, and others, will also be enlisted to provide advice and assistance.

  2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed
       and planned).
                                                                             Supervision (PSR) Ratings
 Description                                Project                          (Bank-financed projects only)
 a) Bank financed                                                            IP               DO
 Agricultural research                      National Agricultural Research   S                S
                                            Project 2 (NARP II)
 Rehabilitating ecosystem of Lake Victoria Lake Victoria Environment         U                U
 for the riparian communities (GEF)         Management Project(LVEMP)
 Pastoral communities sustainable           Arid Lands Project I (ALP)       S                S
 development, Infrastructure development
 and drought management
 Biodiversity and environment               Tana River National Reserve      S                S
 improvement in national reserve            Project
 (b) Planned
 Agricultural Technology Generation and     Kenya Agricultural productivity  NA               NA
 Dissemination                              Project
 (c) Other development agencies
 Causes of soil fertility decline and       Soil Management Project (SMP)
 development of low cost technologies for
 soil recapitalization




                                                                                                          16

 To promote use of legumes to improve         Legume Research Network
 smallholder farm productivity and to         Project (LRNP) GoK
 conserve environment
 Study options for rural credit to facilitate Rural Credit Project (DfID)
 chemical fertilizer purchase
 Improved land management in Lake             Lake Victoria Improved Land
 Victoria                                     Management Project (SIDA)
 Improved extension services                  National Agricultural and
                                              Livestock Extension Project
                                              (GOK and SIDA)

IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), NA
(Not Applicable)

2a. Linkages to other GEF initiatives

UNEP/GEF is currently implementing an MSP in the Lake Baringo catchment which is due to close in
February 2004. UNEP/GEF is also implementing regional projects in Kenya's northern and southern
drylands ( Desert Margins Program and, Management of Indigenous Vegetation for Rehabilitation of
Degraded Rangelands in the Arid Zone of Africa, and a targeted research project on Land Use Change
(LUCID). The Bank is currently managing a multi-country initiative the Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Project (LVEMP I) that includes a component for Kenya and is being implemented through
KARI. Furthermore, KARI has been involved in a number of ecosystem management projects including
the KEFRI-KARI-World Agroforestry Center Pilot Project in Vihiga and Siaya Districts.

Although a number of different projects are active in the Lake Victoria region, none are focused on IEM.
This project will complement other projects but will be unique in focusing on an integrated ecosystem
management approach.

3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:

PDF- B funds were provided to assist the Government of Kenya in the preparation of a project proposal
based on baseline studies on biophysical and social aspects of the project area. The completed studies
provided the following inputs that helped shape the project design:

(i) Inventories of soils, land use and land cover identified the poor fertility status of the soils, as well as
the extent and hot spots for erosion and soil degradation. Analysis of the results provided guidance on
investment opportunities in agroforestry and other complementary activities to improve soil fertility,
promote value added production, and promote global environmental benefits.

(ii) Promotion of IEM interventions under the project must take into account the socio-economic aspect
and community needs. The socio-economic surveys in Nyando have revealed that 54% of the rural
populations live in poverty, and among the Luo people, about 35 % of the farms are headed by widows.
Markets are primarily local, maize remains the dominant crop, but livestock activities are expanding.

(iii) A spatially registered, GIS data base has been established for the Nyando basin, consisting of
Landsat, Spot and some QuickBird images. Preliminary analysis has identified high and low sources of
erosion, as well as depositional areas for sediments. These findings are important for all present and
future project activities to improve water quality in Lake Victoria as well as for carbon sequestration.




                                                                                                               17

(iv) Some preliminary estimates of carbon stocks were completed, and have to be extensively checked
and improved. Nonetheless, they provide valuable opportunity for refining the monitoring of carbon over
the life of the project.

(v) Finally, procedures were identified to monitor poverty, sustainability, and project impacts. Much
effort was also put into monitoring procedures for greenhouse gasses (CO2, N2O, and CH4), since current
procedures are not well adapted for developing countries.

Similarly, lessons drawn from the implementation experience of previous land management and agro-
forestry projects in Kenya include the following:

(i) The experience of the pilot project on soil recapitalization shows that institutional arrangements for
project management and coordination work better if located in the field nearer the beneficiaries, and when
stakeholders are closely associated with implementing organizations in the decision making processes.

(ii) Farmer empowerment is essential for successful planning and implementation, and to ensure
maintenance of assets in future.

(iii) Capacity building programs should cover the rural communities, but also the implementers and
service providers, e.g. the NGOs, CBOs, private trade and business partners.

(iv) Awareness raising must be an essential element of pre-project activities, and continued during the
term of the project and thereafter.

(v) Promoting program that enable household-led activities to be managed as community-led umbrella
projects should be part of the project strategy. Individual smallholder farmers, acting alone, are unlikely
to reap optimal social and environmental benefits.

4. Indication of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:

The Government of Kenya is strongly committed to improving the natural resource base in western
Kenya. The Government has sponsored a number of sustainable land management initiatives such as the
National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Program, Soil Management Project, Legume Research
Network, Agricultural Technology and Information Response Initiative, and Lake Victoria Improved
Land Management Program.

A good indication of the client's commitment is the production of project proposals and baseline surveys
by Kenyan institutions. KARI has been actively involved in the design of the project during preparation
of the concept note and through implementation of PDF B activities. Initial development of the project
occurred after discussions with rural development partners in western Kenya and a stakeholder meeting in
Nairobi in December 2000, after which the first draft of the project concept paper was prepared. These
consultations included: (i) staff from Western and Nyanza provincial extension services; (ii) the National
Environmental Secretariat (the GEF Focal Point); (iii) representatives from research and development
partners active in western Kenya including SIDA/NALEP, UNSO-UNDP, GTZ, FAO, TSBF, RELMA,
MICWP, SCODP, NAC; and (iv) farmers who are active in the KEFRI-KARI-World Agroforestry Center
Pilot Project in Vihiga and Siaya Districts. A workshop on "Reversing Environmental and Agricultural
Decline In The Nyando River Basin" was held in December 2002 to help further refine project objectives.
Scientists, representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, and Water Resources, the National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA), World Agroforestry Center, NALEP, non-governmental
organizations, donor agencies, and farmers attended this workshop.



                                                                                                          18

Through PDF B funding, KARI and the World Agroforestry Center supported project preparation by
completing baseline surveys, designing project interventions and geographic areas, and creating
monitoring and evaluation systems. KARI and World Agroforestry Center completed the following
baseline surveys: (i) a biophysical baseline of soil, vegetation, and current land use practices; (ii) socio-
economic baseline; and (iii) carbon baseline to assess carbon stocks in different farming systems above
and below ground.

5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:

The Bank/GEF possess comparative advantage in securing inter-country cooperation, and have the added
advantage of making available considerable knowledge and experience in project design and institutional
arrangements for implementation that have worked in similar African conditions. The proposed project
includes objectives that would generate global benefits i.e. improving water quality in international
waterways, mitigating climate change through carbon sequestration, and enhancing biodiversity in critical
habitats.

 E.     Summary of Project Analysis

1. Economic

Evaluation methodology and cost/benefit analysis

The demand-driven nature of the project leaves undetermined the specific investments that will be made
under the project, thereby making impossible any rigorous ex-ante estimation of costs and benefits for the
entire project. However, it is possible, with reasonable assumptions, to assess the profitability of the
various types of investment that are likely to be made under the project and to indirectly estimate
approximately the break-even economic rate of return (ERR) below which the project would not be
economically viable.

Given the difficulty of quantifying certain ecosystem interventions, the analysis has been confined to a
sub-set of activities, namely the profitability of various agricultural enterprises in which the communities
and farmers groups are likely to invest in through adoption of improved soil fertility practices. The
analysis reviewed the ex-post cost and benefits data of soil fertility management technologies tested on
farm and on station during the past decade in Western Kenya by World Agroforestry Center and KARI,
and whose adoption the project is expected to upscale. Actual and potential adoption data for the said
technologies were also reviewed to assess the likelihood of their profitability and economic viability.
Available data on the potential biophysical and economic impact of adoption of the technologies on Lake
Victoria were reviewed, as well as potential earnings from carbon trading, to assess potential external
costs and benefits of the project. Finally, the break-even economic rate of return that would make the
project economically viable was estimated under a set of conservative assumptions.

The results of the economic analyses of technologies suggest that adoption of the new sustainable land
management (SLM) technologies in Western Kenya would lead to substantial increases in returns to land
and labor. For example, the results of the reviewed studies indicate that tithonia biomass transfer could
increase net returns to the income of poor farmers, by as much as 77 percent annually when applied on
kales and by 50 percent when applied on tomatoes. The results also suggest that improved fallows with
species such as Tephrosia and Crotalaria are capable of improving net returns to labor, by 33 percent on
average in maize fields. Carbon sequestration is estimated to reach about 200,000 tons at the end of the
project implementation period (World Agroforestry Center) with a value of about one million US dollars,
for conservative prices between 4 and 6 dollars per ton by the end of the project implementation period
(year 2009). Given the above parameters, low adoption rates of sustainable land management
technologies in the order of 14%-18%, the average incomes of households (about US$1/day) and of



                                                                                                             19

villages in Western Kenya, the financial and economic rates of returns to the investment to be made under
the project were calculated.

The results obtained by adding carbon sequestration benefits to the economic benefits suggest that the
break-even social rate of return of the project is about 12 percent. The project would have to increase the
annual growth rate of income in Western Kenya from an assumed 5 percent income growth rate (without
the project) to at least 8.4 percent in order to economically and socially justify the investment planned
under the project. The minimum expected productivity growth from available improved technologies
rate of 33 percent and low adoption rate of 14 to 18 percent produce a social rate of return of at least 15
percent, while the medium and high productivity growth rates of 50 percent and 77 percent suggest much
higher social rates of returns of 28 and 47 percent respectively, even after assuming relatively
conservative adoption rates of 14 to 18 percent. The rates of return do not take into account of the
potential economic gains from improved technologies for the Lake Victoria's economy. Thus, the project
appears economically viable.

  Variation in Social Rate of Return of Project to Real Village Income Growth (%)

  Assumed       Assumed         Real annual    Assumed        Implied Real     Resultant Social Benefit/Cost
  real annual Productivity growth in           real annual   Village Income Rate of Return     Ratio at 12
  growth in     Growth rate village            growth in     Increase over    (SRR )           percent
  village       of SLM          income, with village         the project                       Discount
  income        technologies the project       income        period                            Rate
  without the 1/                               resulting     2004-2009
  project                                      from the
                                               project

  5.0           77              16.5           11.5          72.3             47               2.70
  5.0           50              12.2           7.2           41.5             28               1.82
  5.0           33              9.1            4.1           22.2             15               1.26
  5.0           30              8. 4           3.4           18.2             12               1.00
  1/ applied to only 14%-18% of farmers (adoption rate), SLM = sustainable land management

2. Financial


Fiscal impact of the project. The Government will not incur significant fiscal obligations from the
project as the bulk of project money will be spent on interventions managed by individuals or community
groups. The project will fund community based sub-projects, including some community infrastructure,
but proposals for such funds will be judged against the community's demonstrated ability to maintain the
assets. The project also builds on existing initiatives in government and non-governmental institutions,
thus reducing the fiscal burden arising from the project and easing the flow of counterpart funds.

The project is also unlikely to encounter resource constraints during implementation. GEF would meet
more than 70% of the total cost of the project of 5 years duration estimated at US$6.25 million. A
satisfactory system of accounting and financial management is already in place for the pilot on soil
fertility recapitalization. For the institutional dimension, a World Bank Financial Management Specialist
(FMS) will be assigned to review the financial procedures of the implementing agencies and provide
recommendation during preparation and the execution of the project.

3. Technical

Biophysical measurements. The primary technical issues arising from biophysical measurements center
on accuracy of baseline measurements and monitoring systems. The ability to accurately measure carbon



                                                                                                          20

sequestration and perform net-net accounting (balancing carbon absorption with emissions of other
GHGs, N2O and CH4) will be critical to evaluate environmental benefits. Likewise, accurate
measurement of biodiversity and soil erosion control will be necessary for accurate evaluation of project
interventions. In assessing soil erosion vulnerability, the nature and erodibility of topsoil as well as the
weathering profile of underlying rocks will be investigated.

Biophysical measurements will rely on a data gathered through ground surveys and remote sensing. Two
complimentary approaches for measuring biodiversity will be used. The first will estimate ecosystem
richness using existing land cover data and the second will use pair-wise plant checklists of 84 useful,
common exotic and indigenous plants. Large scale diagnostics of land degradation will be done using
spectral analyses of soil samples, based on a reference soil spectral library. Deforestation will be
monitored along forest margins using remote sensing. Sediment and nutrient loads in rivers will be
monitored by collecting water samples at 14 day intervals during the rainy season, and less frequently
during the dry season.

Currently available procedures and models for assessing greenhouse gases are not well developed for
tropical countries. Consequently, the project will concentrate initially on Tier 1 assessment, but with the
view of improving the coefficients and moving towards Tier 2. Also, the World Agroforestry Center will
conduct some targeted research on refinement of remote sensing techniques for carbon monitoring.

Appropriate farm conservation technologies. There are two technical issues in the project: (i)
availability of appropriate technologies; and (ii) technical capacity in communities, NGOs, and
Government agencies to utilize them. Technologies to address agro-ecological issues under the proposed
project have been developed by KARI/World Agroforestry Center/KEFRI over the last ten years, tested
in field trials and demonstrations, and further honed to suit local conditions during their application on
farms under farmer-led initiatives such as the western Kenya Soil Fertility Recapitalization Project. The
technologies define appropriate practices related to conservation and sustainable use of natural resources
such as improved land and water management, soil fertility replenishment and maintenance techniques,
landscape scale planning and management. In addition the overall planning of the development
interventions would be organized following the integrated ecosystems management approach, and this
would help integrate poverty reduction activities focused on small holder farmers with Kenya's national
priorities (also subserving global objectives) for degraded land rehabilitation, adaptation to climate
change, and biodiversity. Further work will be done in the first years of the project to collect baseline data
for Yala and Nzoia basins and will provide guidance for appropriate technologies and interventions.

Overall, technical capacity is likely to be a major constraint on project implementation. The project
therefore will have a funding provision for workshops, on-the-job training, and use of mass media for
extension. Attention will be paid to the appropriateness of the technical design as well as to the specific
location in which the project should be implemented.

Finally, an appraisal carried out by the World Agroforestry Center show that there is an acute shortage of
seeds and seedlings for most of the preferred species (i.e. Grevillea, Melia, Kie apple among others). It is
therefore necessary to establish tree nurseries to satisfy the demand for tree/ shrub/fruit seedlings to
farmers at an affordable price. Although the project will support increasing the number of plant species on
farms, it will promote the use of indigenous species and the introduction of alien invasive species is not
envisaged.

Linkages to other ecosystem interventions. The project focuses primarily on both agricultural and
natural ecosystems. Project activities will be implemented on-farm as well as critical habitats such as
forests fragments, wetlands, riparian zones, and localized refugia. Initiatives in these areas will be central
to the rehabilitation and conservation of the river basins. The project will depend on local government


                                                                                                            21

and non-government actors for both planning and implementation of project activities, and should,
therefore, be linked to ongoing or future activities dealing with other aspects of the ecosystem.

4. Institutional

The primary institutional issue surrounding the project is the capacity of local government units to
implement project activities. Administrative and fiscal decentralization will be the core delivery
mechanisms for the project and implementation will be based on a pluralistic service delivery system. The
nature of project activities necessitates cooperation from a range of institutional actors inside and outside
of government.

At the district level, district steering committees would oversee project implementation and facilitate
ground level community-based program implementation. The districts are well represented by all line
ministries but the capacity of districts to provide oversight of community sub-projects is constrained by
the large size of the district coordinating body and the relative frequency with which it meets. District
administration units consist of technical, administrative and political actors who coordinate district
development activities through the District Development Committee (DDC) that meets quarterly. Districts
are empowered to manage funds allocated to the districts, but, the bulk of current public investment is
channeled through line ministries. To avoid bottlenecks at the DDC level, the project will utilize a smaller
technical working group consisting of technical personnel from relevant line ministries and other
stakeholders. This arrangement has worked well elsewhere, most notably in the Arid Lands Resource
Management Project, a Bank financed CDD project. Support from the PCO field staff will also provide a
mechanism to speed approval and procurement of community sub-projects.

At the grassroots level, farmer and community organizations would be the main implementers duly
assisted by government and non-government service providers. The project's use of multiple service
providers is designed to avoid over-reliance on the government's extension services, which are over-
stretched. A number of NGOs present in western Kenya, many with a focus on agricultural development
and natural resource management. The Consortium for Scaling up Options for Increased Farm
Productivity (COSOFAP) has a membership of 70 organizations and will be the primary source of service
providers.

4.1 Executing agencies:

Community-based organizations at the grass root level, district committees supported by the district
agriculture development offices at the district level and the consortium of research institutions based in
Western Kenya acting through an already constituted and functioning coordination committee at the
project level would be the main implementing agencies. While the lead coordinating agency identified
for the project is KARI, the primary executing agencies for the project include World Agroforestry
Center, KEFRI, and district administrative units.

KARI has extensive experience with Bank financed projects and was the primary recipient of capacity
building funds under the Bank financed National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) I and II. KARI
maintains a headquarters office in Nairobi and has substantially decentralized research and dissemination
activities to its regional centers. There are two such centers in western Kenya, in Kakamega and Kisii.
KARI has successfully implemented community based technology dissemination initiatives such as the
Agricultural Technology Information and Research Initiative (ATIRI), which supported demand driven
technology adoption through community organizations. Through ATIRI and other initiatives, KARI has
developed effective working partnerships with local extensions agents and non-governmental
organizations.



                                                                                                           22

The World Agroforestry Center, will play a significant role in project execution through the provision of
technical backstopping for community sub-projects and monitoring and evaluation. Already, it is involved
in technology dissemination and natural resource management and maintains an office in western Kenya.
It is a member of the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) system and is
currently an implementing partner in the Lake Victoria Improved Land Management Project. It also
works with Ministry of Agriculture in implementing National Agriculture and Livestock Extension
Program (NALEP).

4.2 Project management:

As described earlier, a Technical Advisory Group (TAG) will provide overall guidance for the project.
Although KARI will act as chair, the TAG incorporates a range of stakeholders involved in agricultural
technology dissemination and ecosystem management in Western Kenya. The project's use of a PAG
provides a means to coordinate across the project's geographic area, an important element of the
integrated ecosystem approach. The PCO will operate under the guidance and supervision of KARI. The
location of the PCO in Kisumu is designed to speed up implementation of the project and ensure adequate
technical assistance from PCO staff to implementing agencies at the district level.

4.3 Procurement:

Procurement using funds made available by GEF would be made in terms of the Government and
implementing agency rules which are consistent with IDA guidelines. Because of its focus on
communities, the project would follow simplified procedures that are designed for community based
development projects and are applicable to grass root level agency procurements under the IDA
guidelines. During negotiation consistency between the Government and IDA guidelines would be
secured and agreed procedures included in the project Grant Agreement.

4.4 Financial management:

An assessment of the financial management arrangements of the project included a review of the systems
of accounting, reporting, auditing, flow of funds and internal controls. The project's financial
management arrangements are rated acceptable and are capable of recording transactions and balances,
supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding assets, and are
subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.

The Project financial management risk is likely to be moderate once the financial management and other
operational systems are well defined and documented, and personnel are trained. A financial
management system will be developed in accordance with the Financial Management Assessment Report
presented in Annex 6B. The PCO will be tasked with producing a financial management timeline to
effectiveness that includes realistic timing for the procurement of: (i) PCO personnel, (ii) accounting
systems, (iii) external auditors, (iv) consultants to design and produce manuals; and (vi) staff training.

5. Environmental

5.1 Summarize significant environmental issues and objectives and identify key stakeholders. If
the issues are still to be determined, describe current or planned efforts to do so.

Kenya is a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (July 1994), the Convention to Combat
Desertification (June, 1997) and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (Auguse, 1994). It
has developed and adopted a Conservation Strategy, and the Environmental Policy.



                                                                                                         23

Environmental rehabilitation is a key component within the project. The proposed project seeks to build
up and sustain the natural resource base by improving the management of natural resources at the
community level. The main activities to be pursued under the project such as conservation agriculture,
water management, agroforestry, and biodiversity conservation, make it an effective instrument to
mitigate climate change through carbon sequestration, enhance biodiversity conservation on and off-farm,
and reduce sediment loading in critical waterways. The project would have a positive impact on
environmental management and would not involve alteration of the physical landscape outside of
household or community initiated soil fertility, agroforestry or ecosystem management activities.

An Environmental Analysis of the WKIEMP was completed in February 2004. The report identifies
environmental issues relating to the project and recommended measures to be integrated into the
planning, design and implementation early in the implementation stage.

The general findings of the EA were that:

(i)     Given the participatory manner in which the project is being implemented, the actual
interventions and timing of the interventions are difficult to predict;

(ii)    Most of the potential environmental and social impacts are positive and are expected to lead to
less natural resource and environmental degradation, which in turn will lead to better environments and
sustainable livelihoods;

(iii)   The benefit from the project outweigh any adverse impacts that the project may have provided.

5.2 Environmental category and justification/rationale for category rating: B - Partial Assessment


Although the project is expected to produce net benefits in terms of natural resource management and
conservation, certain project activities related to improved land management may have environmental or
social impacts that require mitigation. These include reduction of surface and ground water availability
due to afforestation, and pollution of water bodies as a result of use of fertilizer. To address these
predicted environmental impacts, the report recommends for an environmental management plan at the
implementation stages of the project.

5.3     For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA

                       EA start-up date:                 October 1, 2003

                       Date of first EA draft:           February 23, 2004
                       Expected date of final draft:     June 30, 2004


5.4 Determine whether an environmental management plan (EMP) will be required and its overall
scope, relationship to the legal documents, and implementation responsibilities. For Category B
projects for IDA funding, determine whether a separate EA report is required. What institutional
arrangements are proposed for developing and handling the EMP?

An Environmental and Social Management Framework will be developed to address the issues around
natural habitats, resettlement and environmental management in project implementation. The
Environmental and Social Management Framework will detail the roles and responsibilities of relevant




                                                                                                        24

institutions and individuals involved in developing and implementing various aspects of the project. The
ESMF will also shape development of the project's operations manual.

Institutional responsibility for development and disclosure of the EMP and consultation with stakeholders
will rest with the implementing agency, KARI. The National Environmental Management Authority will
also provide technical expertise in developing the ESMF.

5.5 How will stakeholders be consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed EMP?

Consultations on environmental management issues will be participatory. A three day workshop on
project development took place with the participation of farmer groups, government agencies (KARI,
Ministry of Agriculture, KEFRI), NGOs and international organizations. Further consultation will take
place during the development of the ESMF and overall project design. Implementation of the project will
be coordinated by KARI, but the project envisages the participation of ICRAF, farmers, NGOs, and other
community organizations both benefiting from the strengthened institutional capacity and participating in
the payment for environmental services and the management of protected areas. The entire process of
planning and project preparation would be participatory, and the project monitoring and evaluation would
also be carried out with farmer participation. The key performance standards would provide for output
and impact indicators to measure farmer and community participation, capacity building of the
community institutions, indicators for incomes and poverty reduction, and outcomes of a sustainable
agriculture.

5.6 Are mechanisms being considered to monitor and measure the impact of the project on the
environment? Will the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP section of the EA?

The project will monitor and measure the impact of project activities on the environment. Where negative
impacts from the project are anticipated the ESMF mitigation plan will be implemented and monitored.
Component III of the project is dedicated to M&E and environmental issues will be well covered.

6. Social

6.1 Summarize key social issues arising out of project objectives, and the project's planned social
development outcomes. If the issues are still to be determined, describe current or planned efforts
to do so.

The community approach adopted for the project is expected to improve the community responsibility for
the environment and facilitate community participation in planning and implementation. Higher output
and improved income are expected to make a positive social impact through reducing poverty and
migration due to related factors.

One of the main objectives of the project is to provide small scale farmers, particularly women headed
households, with an alternative to make a sustainable use of their land while protecting the environment.
The project proposes special attention to gender matters during implementation. The project will mobilize
women as active partners and stakeholders. The project will also identify constraints on women's access
to resources and will encourage other stakeholders to develop and adopt mechanisms to reach women
directly.

The EA report identified the creation of social disparity due to differences in access to project resources.
The key social issues will be adequacy of targeting at local level, degree of voice of the beneficiary
farmers in decision making processes on issues affecting their well-being, conflicting demands on the


                                                                                                          25

same resources, the risk of adverse social impacts to the Bank's intervention, and impact on demand for
labor. In addition to selecting carefully the participating communities on account of wealth ranking,
ethnicity, clans, etc, mitigation ought to be about appropriate ways to work with communities, based on a
social analysis. The social impact of project interventions will be reviewed and addressed by a social
scientist in the course of project implementation.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How will key stakeholders participate in the project?

The project will proactively pursue the promotion of local partnerships between rural community
organizations and various stakeholders such as small-scale farmers (particularly women-headed
households), service providers (public, non-Government and private), community-based organizations,
research institutions (KARI, the World Agroforestry Center, KEFRI) and NGOs. Through its community
driven approach, the project would enable community organizations to seek technical assistance, guidance
and advocacy support from the partnering civil society organizations and other providers.

Many of the civil society organizations participating in the implementation of the project are legally
registered and members of the umbrella organization COSOFAP, which is chaired by the provincial
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. Civil society participation will be facilitated by district
steering committees and district agriculture development offices. While the overall implementation of the
project will be coordinated by KARI, the project envisages the participation of the World Agroforestry
Center, farmers, NGOs, and other community organizations all of which would benefit from the
strengthened institutional capacity and participation in IEM.

Furthermore, the entire process of planning and implementation would be participatory. At the
village/community level, VDCs will be the main bodies for planning and implementing approved
development interventions. To ensure safeguards, community representatives from the constituent
villages will be represented in the village development committee.

Local communities will also be involved through the monitoring and evaluation process. Initially, focus
group discussions with local leaders and community members will be used to introduce the project to the
area and to assist the local community with the identification of the major natural resource management
constraints faced by the community. Focus groups will be asked to rank problems and possible
interventions for these by consensus and results will be synthesized as reference documents for each
community. As outlined in the M&E plan, farmers will also be responsible for the selection of the net
project area.

Finally, to ensure adequate and continued stakeholder participation, key performance standards would
provide for output and impact indicators to measure farmer and community participation, capacity
building of the community institutions, indicators for incomes and poverty reduction, and sustainable
agricultural production and productivity.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

The project will pursue the promotion of local partnerships of rural community organizations and various
stakeholders such as the service providers (public, non-Government and private), input/output trade,
faith-based organizations, local government village and area level entities. Through its community driven
approach, the project would enable community organizations to seek technical assistance, guidance and
advocacy support from the partnering civil society organizations or other providers. Many of the civil
society organizations participating in implementation of the project are legally registered and members of
the umbrella organization COSOFAP.


                                                                                                           26

6.4   What institutional arrangements are planned to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The participatory nature of the project will ensure the project achieves it social development objectives.
Farmers and farmer groups will guide the entire process and would be in charge of planning and
implementation of the development interventions.

6.5 What mechanisms are proposed to monitor and measure project performance in terms of social
development outcomes? If unknown at this stage, please indicate TBD.

The key performance measuring criteria would include output indicators to assess improved rural
livelihood's and economic performance of local, small scale farming systems, gender, and implications
for demand for labor. Details would be finalized during project appraisal.

7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?

     Policy                                                            Applicability
     Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              Yes
     Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      Yes
     Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       No
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         No
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     Yes
     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      No
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                             Yes
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 No
     Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      Yes
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*           No



7.2 Project Compliance
(a) Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with safeguard policies which are
applicable.

An Environmental and Social Management Framework will be developed to address the issues around
natural habitats, resettlement and environmental management in project implementation. The
Environmental and Social Management Framework will detail the roles and responsibilities of relevant
institutions and individuals involved in developing and implementing various aspects of the project.

8. Business Policies
8.1 Check applicable items:
Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP 6.30, BP 6.30, GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP 12.10, BP 12.10, GP 12.10)
Financial management (OP 10.02, BP 10.02)
Involvement of NGOs (GP 14.70)

8.2 For business policies checked above, describe issue(s) involved.
NGOs would play an important role in supporting community-based planning and implementation of the
development interventions. They would engage in a number of activities depending on the expressed need


                                                                                                          27

of the farmer organizations and the competencies of by the concerned NGOs. NGOs, singly or along with
other providers, would have a role in farmer training and capacity building, providing technical assistance
in preparation of community action plans and micro or small projects, technical/specialist support during
implementation, monitoring implementation progress, advocacy and facilitation. Funding would be
available under the proposed project to meet costs of NGO participation and support as above.

F.     Sustainability and Risks

1. Sustainability:

The project strategy has been designed based upon lessons learned from previous experiences in order to
ensure the sustainability of GEF-supported activities beyond the GEF funding period. Sustainability will
be achieved through: (i) focusing on capacity building of local technical resource services, and producers;
(ii) recognizing and capitalizing on the crucial role of local governments and local producer and
community organizations to organize, promote, monitor and assess implementation; and (iii) utilizing
existing institutional structures to implement project activities and deliver outputs. Additionally, the
project will fund community-based sub-projects, including some community infrastructure, the required
funds for which would be judged against the community's demonstrated ability to maintain the assets
over the long-term. With a view to further ensure sustainability of the activities beyond the project period,
the project builds upon existing initiatives in government and non-governmental institutions, thus
reducing the risks associated with the establishment of new initiatives.

The principal concern with regards to financial sustainability is the maintenance of investments resulting
in effective gains in incomes and improved ecosystem management in the target communities, to the
extent that farmers in the area will be economically and environmentally self-sustaining over time. The
project's financial management system is designed to support efficient and effective delivery of outputs.
Furthermore, the project will place funds in the hands of communities and facilitate provision of technical
assistance through public or private sector. By making application and screening procedures for
community proposals as simple as possible and by providing ample funds for capacity building at all
levels, it is expected that project funds will flow at a relatively faster speed.


1a. Replicability:

It is expected that the experiences gained in farmer-led initiatives for defining appropriate practices
related to the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources will be replicated within Kenya and
potentially in other countries with similar agro-ecological situations. Replication will be more effective as
a result of the project's emphasis on capacity building at both the community level by providing technical
assistance to promote adoption of integrated ecosystem management activities and at the government and
local institutional levels by training personnel and staff. In particular the project would enable and
enhance the ability of the target local institutions and communities to develop carbon finance proposals,
measure baselines, and establish the financial and administrative processes required to enter into carbon
sequestration contracts. This is intended to become a best practice guideline for future replication.

Replication Plan: Dissemination of best practices to other countries in and outside the region will be done
by both the project staff and key stakeholders directly involved in project development and
implementation. The project support for the dissemination of lessons learned, designed and implemented
under Component 2, would be consistent with the GEF Outreach Strategy. A budget will be earmarked
for such public outreach activities. In particular, resources would be allocated to create awareness within
a wider audience about the project's activities, its impacts and principle lessons. Such awareness would be
created through: (i) public awareness campaigns for local rural communities, farmer's associations,
farmer-to-farmer contacts, extension agents, NGOs and other stakeholders; (ii) consultations and


                                                                                                           28

 information dissemination workshops; (iii) participation of project staff in national and international
 seminars and outreach workshops; (iv) training of extension workers and rural development practitioners
 (NGOs, local development authorities, MoARD extension staff); (v) preparation of outreach material
 (pamphlets and brochures) for the general public; (vi) preparation of audio visual material for media
 campaigns; and (vii) community level documentation centers.

    2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
        Annex 1)

Risk                                         Risk Rating     Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Beneficiaries or may redirect the funds     M                To reduce such risk, the generation of funds would
available to purposes other than                             be strongly tied to measurable indicators to ensure
generating environmental services.                           the proper use of funds.

Community members are not able to           N                Project is designed to maximize community
work together to manage communal                             participation and to ensure that capacity building
resources                                                    support is available to communities.

Insufficient technical assistance resulting N                Association of research institute as implementers
in non-adoption of technologies intended                     would minimize this risk.
to promote IEM.
From Components to Outputs
Difficulty in identifying changes which     M                The project will develop an effective M&E system
will have the desired effects                                to monitor the effects of the project interventions
                                                             and to adjust the list of interventions and targets
                                                             based on observed outputs.

Untimely input delivery.                    N                Simplified Bank procedure will applied with
                                                             procurement taking place locally to ensure timely
                                                             delivery.
Implementing agencies already overtaxed M                    Project funds will enable hiring additional staff.
with existing and pipeline work loads                        Also implementation and coordination role would
resulting in less effective program                          be put in place in the field.
coordination.
The large number of transactions            H                Implementation of a project financial management
involved, the small value and multiplicity                   system that ensures self regulation by communities
of contracts, and the scattered locations of                 and optimal use of established government
the subprojects makes ex-ante controls                       administrative systems
across all individual sub-projects difficult

Community groups may lack the                                Incorporation of capacity building component in
necessary capacity.                                          project design.
Community representatives may not be        M                Early identification of project focal points and
truly representative of the community (i.e.                  involvement of communities in decision making
elite capture of institutions and political                  processes
interference)

Risks associated with the handling of       M               Self regulation through active community
substantial cash transactions including                     involvement and inclusion of cash holding limits in
theft and fraud                                             CDD financial manual




                                                                                                               29

Overall Risk Rating                       M

Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects

  There are no serious issues where the Government and the Bank differ.

G.    Main Loan Conditions


1. Effectiveness conditions

(a)     The Government will have appointed a Project Coordinator, a Finance Officer, a Procurement
        Officer, and a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer with experience and qualification satisfactory to
        IDA.

(b)     The Government will have established the project accounting and financial management system
        satisfactory to IDA.

(c)     The Government will have opened the Project Account in a commercial bank and deposited
        therein the initial deposit of KSH...............

(d)       The Government will have appointed an external auditor for the project satisfactory to IDA.


2. Other:

(a)     The Government will have completed the work program, including the budget and procurement
        plan for the first year of project implementation, satisfactory in form and substance to IDA.


Other assurances obtained at negotiations.

(a)     Preparation and furnishing to IDA annual progress reports on procurement activities under the
project.

(b)     The Government will furnish to IDA a realistic and satisfactory project implementation plan
(PIP).



 H.     Readiness for Implementation

  Drafts of the PIP and procurement plan will be ready during negotiations.


 I.     Compliance with Bank Policies

  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




                                                                                                       30

                                             Annex 1: Log Frame Matrix

                         KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management


Hierarchy of Objectives       Key            Performance Data Collection Strategy       Critical Assumptions
                              Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:    (from     Goal     to    Bank
                                                                                        Mission)
To foster economic growth
and reduce poverty within the · Per capita income           · National statistics       Sound natural resource
framework of the PRSP by                                                                practices exist and
developing sound natural                                    · National environment      information dissemination
resource management                                         report                      about benefits can be
practices                     · Percent and headcount of                                generated.
                              people living below the       · Annual sector reports
                              poverty line
                                                            · Bank reports
GEF              Operational Outcome           /    Impact
Program:                      Indicators:
Project Development                                                                     · Continued institutional and
Objective: Improved           · 80% of targeted             · National Environment      political support for the
productivity and              communities adopting and      reports                     implementation of the
sustainability of land use    implementing integrated                                   project.
systems in Nzoia, Yala and    ecosystem management          · Annual Reports
Nyando river basins.          interventions in project                                  · Sound national policy and
                              intervention area and in      · Local level surveys       administrative framework in
                              surrounding villages                                      place.

Global Objective:             Outcome          /    Impact Project reports:             (from       Objective      to
                              Indicators:                                               Purpose)
                              · Reduced erosion and         · Project sponsored         · Number of beneficiaries
Improved regional and on-and sediment delivery into         biophysical evaluations and are sufficient to produce
off-farm biodiversity, carbon watercourses draining into    field inventories           significant impact
sequestration, and            Lake Victoria: 10% percent
rehabilitation of degraded    reduction in erosion rates    · Local level surveys       · Completion and
lands and catchments.         from farming plots receiving                              implementation of National
                              interventions, improved                                   Environmental Policy.
                              phosphorous parameters in
                              major waterways feeding into
                              Lake Victoria.

                              · 20 % reduction in
                              phosphorous loads in key
                              waterways

                              · 5 % reduction in
                              encroachment rate in critical
                              habitats in or around project
                              areas

                              · co-system richness - 10 %
                              increase in abundance and


                                                                                                               31

                              diversity on farms in project
                              area, 5 % increase in
                              ecosystem richness indicator
                              (off-farm)

                              · Sequestration of 100,000
                              tons of carbon in 30,000 ha
                              of SLM project area
Output        from       each Output Indicators:             Project reports:              (from       Outputs         to
Component:                                                                                 Objective)
1.Capacity Building for        · Number of community         · Project reports
Community Driven Integrated based organizations or                                        · Capacity building, creation
Ecosystem Management:          groups established based on a · Supervision mission         of PAPs and extension
Improved capacity for local    community driven              reports                       support will result in
communities, farmer            development model.                                          implementation of IEM
associations, and national                                   · Evaluation reports          interventions by communities
institutions to formulate      · 50% community               (midterm and final)
integrated ecosystem           participation in village land                              · Adequate Government
management plans               management planning           · District and national plans financing for interventions.
                               exercises
Identification of non-farm                                                                · Community leadership for
sites of global importance and · Number of community                                       adoption of low cost
the development of land        participatory action plans                                  interventions by
management plans including     (PAPs) created.                                             communities.
upstream-downstream
linkages.                      · Number of farmers,
                               extension experts, and
                               service providers trained.

                               · Number of persons and
                               institutions at local and
                               national level trained or
                               participating in IEM
                               planning.

                               · 40% of community plans
                               including conservation
                               strategy for endangered or
                               endemic species

                               · Inclusion of global
                               environmental benefits
                               (upstream-downstream
                               linkages) in community
                               plans.

2. Scaling up and Financing    · Number of PAP sub-
IEM Interventions:             projects implemented          · Project reports             · Extension services,
Implementation of                                                                          research activities and farmer
community driven IEM           · Number of IEM activities    · Supervision mission         field schools have large
activities and PAP identified  funded.                       reports                       impact on farm management
sub-projects.                                                                              activities.
                               · 20% increase in organic     · Evaluation reports



                                                                                                                 32

                               matter content of soils in    (midterm and final)          · National capacity
                               plots where the improved                                   sufficiently developed to
                               SLM technologies have been                                 coordinate and implement
                               adopted                                                    project activities.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation · Above and below ground
for project Impact:             carbon sequestration in      · Project reports             · Monitoring systems can
Cost effective monitoring and project areas monitored and                                  accurately capture
evaluation to measure social,   assessed.                    · Bank Supervision reports    environmental benefits
economic and environmental                                   (semi-annual)
impact of project activities.   · Social and economic
                                impact of project activities · Evaluation reports          · Data and indicators
                                monitored and assessed       (midterm and final)           produced by the project are
                                                                                           available, registered and
                                · Environmental impact of    · Disbursement report         maintained in project
                                project activities monitored                               database.
                                and assessed                 · Project sponsored
                                                             biophysical evaluations and
                                · Net-net accounting and     field inventories
                                carbon tradeoffs identified
                                                             · Carbon monitoring
                                · Feasible and accurate      verification protocol
                                procedures for accounting
                                and evaluating carbon
                                absorption resulting from
                                project activities
Project administration
Support implementation,        · Disbursements               · Progress report (annual and · Financial resources
monitoring and evaluation of                                 quarterly)                    adequate
project components to          · Adherence to project work · Disbursement report
measure social, economic,      plans                         (quarterly)                   · Technical capability of
and environmental impacts of                                 · Bank supervision report     staff adequate
project activities                                           (semi-annual)
                                                             · Audit reports (annual)

Project     Components        / Inputs: (budget for each Project reports:                 (from     Components        to
Sub-components:                 component)                                                 Outputs)
1. Capacity Building for        USD 4,700,000                · Progress reports (annual    · Communities able to
Community Driven Integrated                                  and quarterly)                mobilize to form groups and
Ecosystem Management                                                                       formulate PAPs
                                                             · Bank supervision report
sub-component 1.1                                            (semi-annual)                 · Effective Government and
a) Community mobilization                                                                  NGO services
for PAP formulation

sub-component 1.2
c) Capacity building for
service providers and district
and focal development
committees for integrated
ecosystem management

d) Establishment of local



                                                                                                                  33

learning centers and farmer to
farmer linkages

sub-component 1.3
e) Capacity building for
carbon finance administration
and market development

2. Scaling Up and Financing   USD 1,750,000    · Progress reports (annual ·       Maintenance      of
IEM Interventions                              and quarterly)             investments taken on by
                                                                          communities
a) Support to community                        ·       Bank supervision
identified PAP sub-projects in                 report (semi-annual)
improved land management
                                               · Community Participatory
b) Support to community                        Action Plans
ecosystem management
activities
3. Establishing a Monitoring  USD 1,650,000    · Progress reports (annual
and Evaluation System                          and quarterly)

a) Biophysical monitoring                      ·       Bank supervision
                                               report (semi-annual)
b) Net-net accounting for
carbon sequestration

c) Monitoring of project
activities and impact

Project Coordination          USD 1,250,000    · Disbursement report      ·       Policy environment
                                               (quarterly)                supportive of project
                                               · Bank supervision report
                                               (semi-annual)
                                               · Audit reports (annual)




                                                                                               34

                                      Annex 2: Incremental Cost Analysis

                  KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management.


1. Project Objectives and Design

The project seeks to improve the sustainability of land use systems in Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia river
basins through adoption of an integrated ecosystem management approach. In order to achieve this the
project will pursue an integrated ecosystem management approach to: (i) improve on and off-farm
conservation strategies; and (ii) improve capacity for local communities, farmer associations, and national
institutions to identify, formulate and implement sustainable land management activities capturing local
and global environmental benefits.

Project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby
communities direct and coordinate resources for investments, technical assistance and implementation of
ecosystem management activities.

2. Global Environmental Objective

The global environmental objective of the project is to promote integrated ecosystem management so as
to capture the benefits of reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the atmosphere, improved on-
and off-farm biodiversity, and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia
River Basins.

                        Summary Matrix of Main Features and Issues Addressed

                                                                        Western Kenya Integrated
                      FEATURES/ISSUES                                   Ecosystem Management
                                                                        Project

                    1. Focal area/global benefits
                              ·    biodiversity                         x
                              ·    climate change                       x
                              ·    international waters                 x
                              ·    ozone

                    2. Operational program coverage                     12


                    3. Spatial scale of conservation
                              ·    local/provincial                     x
                              ·    national
                              ·    regional

                    4. Domestic benefits
                              ·    same physical outputs
                              ·    same economic outputs
                              ·    greater benefits (see costs avoided/ x
                                   scope of analysis)


                    5. Threat analysis
                              ·    proximate                            x
                              ·    intermediate                         x



                                                                                                        35

                             ·     ultimate
                             ·     difficult to define


                    6. Baseline strategy/activity
                             ·     sustainable
                             ·     not sustainable                x
                             ·     trend: towards sustainable
                             ·     difficult to define


                    7. Alternative strategy/activity
                             ·     substitution to baseline       x
                             ·     additional to baseline



3. Baseline

Traditional land management in western Kenya has relied on the fallowing of unproductive fields to
restore fertility and decrease pest related losses. A rapid increase in population density, however, has led
to wide scale abandonment of fallowing, making the practice untenable. The scale of population increases
in Western Kenya in the past half century has also had significant effect on land and water quality. High
rural population growth coupled with stagnating urban job growth has accelerated the search for new
agricultural land, resulting in a high rate of conversion of woodlands, forests, and wetlands into
agricultural production. Furthermore, at the local level, there has been little restriction on encroachment
onto steep slopes, wetlands, and forests, despite the existence of laws and regulations against such
practices. As such, evidence from studies indicate the scale and rate of land and water degradation and
biodiversity loss in Western Kenya is extremely high.

Land Degradation: Studies conducted in the context of the Lake Victoria Integrated Land Management
project uniformly indicate the occurrence of severely accelerated land degradation in the Nyando River
Basin. Large quantities of sediment ­ discernible in satellite images ­ are being deposited at the outlet of
the Nyando River basin in the Winam Gulf of Lake Victoria (Fig. 4.1; reported in Science, 2000).

Fig 4.1. Nyando sediment plume (~40 km2) in Winam Gulf, Lake Victoria
Source: based on Landsat ETM data Feb. 2000




Measurements performed on sediment cores collected in the Nyando estuary show that sedimentation
rates of the basin have increased to fourfold over the last 100 years (Fig. 4.2; Walsh, unpublished data). In
addition, data show the lower portion (< 1400 m a.s.l) of the basin, and a large area located between the



                                                                                                           36

northern boundary of the Mau and the southern boundary of the Tinderet forests, may now be particularly
vulnerable to erosion following significant rainfall events (e.g. El Niño).

Fig 4.2. Estimated 100-year sedimentation rates in the Nyando River Basin

                                )                          2.0
                              -1 ry                                                          1986
                                                           1.8   1912

                                   mc(etar                 1.6                     1964

                                                                                                 1997
                                                           1.4

                                                           1.2
                                          noi              1.0
                                             attne                                median = 1.1 cm yr-1
                                                           0.8

                                                  m        0.6
                                                   di
                                                     se.tsE0.4

                                                           0.2

                                                           0.0
                                                             1900   1920  1940    1960    1980       2000

                                                                          210
                                                                            Pb date
                 (Walsh, World Agroforestry Center)

Using Cesium-137 measurements, a preliminary sediment budget (Table 4B. 1) indicates that sediment
source areas currently occupy >60% of the basin, and that rates of soil loss in source areas have not been
offset by rates of sediment accretion in sink areas of the basin. This has lead to an export of high
sediment loads (e.g. 3.2 x 106 Mg yr-1 of sediment to the Nyando River), and has severely compromised
water quality in the four main rivers (Nyando, Sondu-Miriu, Yala and Nzoia) in the project area.

Table 4B.1. Sediment budget estimates for the Nyando River Basin (1963 ­ present)


                                                                         Average           Range

                    Sources:
                    Erosion rate (Mg ha-1 yr-1)                              43.5          40.7 ­ 69.5
                    % of basin                                               61.1          58.3 ­ 62.4

                    Sinks:
                    Accretion rate (Mg ha-1 yr-1)                            45.5          37.5 ­ 61.3
                    % of samples                                             38.9          36.4 ­ 41.1

                    Net erosion rate (Mg ha-1 yr-1)                           8.83         3.81 ­ 27.5
                    Total soil loss (Mg x 106 yr-1)                           3.17         1.36 ­ 9.86
                    Sediment delivery ratio (%)                               20.1         8.43 ­ 39.5

                 Source: World Agroforestry Center

Water Quality Degradation: Land degradation of the above described magnitude has significant
negative impacts on soil fertility and water quality in the surrounding area. For example, eutrophication of
Lake Victoria has led to rapid colonization of the lake by water hyacinth and decreased fish and aquatic
plant diversity. The economic impact of this has been great, for example, operations to keep hydroelectric


                                                                                                             37

generating turbines clean is costing Uganda $600,000 per year. The fishing industry, which employs
500,000 people in the riparian countries, has also been severely affected. In addition, erosion and
sedimentation have induced flooding (which now occurs annually in the Nyando basin) resulting in
increased water related diseases.

Biodiversity Loss: Existing rural activities and poor land management practices have also affected
biodiversity in two ways: (i) by fueling the demand for more agricultural land and therefore altering
natural habitats; and (ii) by altering soil chemical properties and therefore reducing soil and plant
diversity. Western Kenya is an area with unique habitats and biodiversity of local, national, and global
significance. (See Annex 11)

Evidence from areas most affected by erosion and sedimentation show soils universally depleted of major
soil nutrients (N, P, K) and exchangeable cations, rendering them unsuitable for conventional agricultural
land-uses. Similarly, erosion affects soil physical properties such as texture and bulk density, which
significantly decrease topsoil infiltration capacities and suitability for plant production. Increasing
heterogeneity in the landscape will be necessary to create more niches for different types of species and
increase aboveground and belowground biodiversity.

3.2 Movement Toward a Sustainable Baseline

The Government of Kenya has recognized the rapid decline in the natural environment and stagnation in
agricultural production of Western Kenya as key development priorities. As a result of this recognition, a
number of jointly funded soil fertility and land rehabilitation initiatives are being implemented by
Government, international donors, NGOs and community based organizations.

While these projects represent a move towards sustainability, full fledged ecosystem sustainability
remains elusive. Many of the initiatives focus primarily on improving agricultural production at the farm
level with little focus on broader ecosystem management. In addition, these projects leave many areas un-
addressed since certain types of ecosystem degradation take place on land that is not farmed (e.g.
abandoned land, roadsides, river banks) and result from agricultural production systems that inadequately
account for negative environmental externalities.

Capacity Building for Community Driven Integrated Ecosystem Management:
GEF funding will build on similar activities in Western Kenya focused on increasing local capacity to
disseminate improved technologies and extension messages. GEF funding will be unique in that it will be
the only project to focus on an integrated ecosystem management approach.

The National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Program II, which will be funded jointly by SIDA and
GoK, will be implemented in 43 districts in the country, 8 of which are located in western Kenya. Total
financing for the project is USD19.9 million (SIDA estimated to contribute USD 5 million) with relevant
co-financing equaling USD1.3 million (USD1.0 million GoK, USD 0.3 million). The relevant objectives
of this project are to: (i) increase local participation in research and extension ; (ii) empower local
communities; and (iii) introduce environmentally sustainable land management practices.

The Lake Victoria Land Management Project includes land management interventions in the project area
with relevant co-financing from SIDA. This project aims to provide extension workers, policy makers
and researchers with information, methods, technologies and approaches for improving land productivity
while enhancing local and regional environments in the Lake Victoria basin. More specifically, the
project aims to: identify and evaluate land management `hot spots' in the basin; evaluate technologies,
institutional arrangements and policies for alleviating poverty while protecting the regional environment;
quantify the impacts of promising management interventions on human welfare and the environment;


                                                                                                         38

enhance the links between research and extension services working on improved land management in the
basin.

Scaling up and Financing IEM Interventions:
GEF funding will build on USD 0.5 million government financing currently being used for localized
interventions for community based land management activities. Specific relevant activities include small-
scale local investments in improved soil management.

Monitoring and Evaluation for Project Impact:
GEF funding will build on GoK co-financing of USD 0.25 million which will be committed as in-kind
contributions based on government extension and staff costs related to monitoring land management in
the project area. Additional baseline funding results from a trust fund grant in the amount of USD 0.4
million for developing local and national capacity for the design and monitoring of carbon finance
activities.

4. The Proposed Alternative

Current interventions centered on erosion control and improved soil fertility could slow the pace of
degradation, but, given the scope and scale of the problem, further interventions will be needed to reach
ecosystem sustainability. Baseline data obtained as part of the project preparation implies a sustained,
large-scale rehabilitative effort would be required to reduce non-point source pollution loads and restore
primary production capacity of critical river basins. Self-reinforcing interactions between soil erosion,
fertility depletion, loss of infiltration capacity and woody vegetation cover decline preclude the possibility
of spontaneous recovery of this area. While restoration of the Basin to its historical state would be
impossible or costly in many cases, targeted measures are needed to protect these areas from further
deterioration.

The GEF alternative seeks to achieve greater ecosystem sustainability by scaling up current land
rehabilitation interventions and broadening them to include integrated ecosystem management practices.
By focusing on an integrated ecosystem management approach, the proposed GEF alternative addresses
not only agricultural production, but also the larger ecosystem in which operates. The IEM approach will
focus on increasing agricultural productivity as well as capturing benefits in terms of biodiversity,
reduced GHG emissions and improved international water quality. Through setting such integrated
targets, this project captures the additional off farm benefits generated by agroforestry and soil fertility
activities, namely, the mitigation of GHG accumulation in the atmosphere, increased on-farm
biodiversity, and reduced sedimentation and nutrient loads in watercourses. By increasing the
sustainability of current agricultural lands, the project also reduces the need for encroachment into
protected areas, thereby conserving off-farm biodiversity.

Other interventions may have a marginal impact in the above areas but without an explicit focus on
environmental service functions, the impact is likely to be limited. Thus, the incremental value provided
by the GEF alternative includes: (i) those environmental benefits generated by the project's focus on
integrated ecosystem management (including improved ecosystem health and the maintenance of
ecosystem functions); and (ii) the increased capacity for communities and districts to participate in the
design and implementation of integrated ecosystem management processes. The GEF alternative also
contributes to the sustainability of agricultural production and thereby furthers poverty reduction goals.

Additionally, one possible outcome of the project is the creation of certified carbon emission units, which
could, in future, create a source of funds for communities engaged in agroforestry activities and, in turn,
increase the sustainability of such activities. The GEF alternative will help break constraints in knowledge
and coordination that prevent development of carbon financing options.


                                                                                                            39

5. Scope of Analysis

The incremental cost analysis includes the significant changes caused by the decision to undertake the
alternative strategy instead of the sustainable baseline scenario. Two scenarios are costed: (i) the
sustainable baseline scenario with localized interventions in agroforestry and improved land management;
and (ii) the GEF alternative. Costs for the sustainable baseline are based on current land rehabilitation and
soil fertility activities described in sections above. Incremental expenditures associated with the GEF
alternative are based on inclusion of activities that provide environmental services to local, national, and
global communities in the areas of biodiversity, climate change, international waters and land quality.

6. Costs and Incremental Cost Matrix

Component 1: Capacity Building for Community Integrated Ecosystem Management. (Total cost
US$ 4,700,000, GEF financing US$ 900,000)

GEF funds will finance the costs associated with activities relating to integrated ecosystem planning by
communities and localities. Incremental financing is necessary for community awareness raising
activities, technical assistance, training, and preparation of Participatory Action Plans (PAPs). GEF funds
will be used for institutional capacity building, primarily training and equipment, to incorporate
environmental service functions into land planning and management activities. This will also include
developing institutional capacity to explore carbon finance opportunities.

Component 2: Scaling up and Financing IEM Interventions (Total cost US$ 1,750,000; GEF
financing US$ 1,250,000)

GEF will fund activities to scale up agroforestry, control erosion into watercourses draining into
international waterways, develop biodiversity resources, and sequester carbon so as to reinforce global
environmental benefits and address land degradation on an integrated ecosystem scale. These activities
will expand both the scale and scope of existing activities, and represent incremental costs above the
baseline. GEF funds will also be used to finance technical assistance, procurement of necessary inputs
and supplies, and investments identified through PAPs for those activities that exceed sustainable baseline
activities (farm level soil fertility and land management interventions).

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation for Project Impact (Total cost US$ 1,650,000; GEF
financing US$ 1,000,000)

GEF funds will finance the costs of monitoring and evaluation of biophysical impact from project
activities, particularly the impact on net carbon absorption, which is currently not being measured in
western Kenya. GEF financing will include monitoring of greenhouse gasses, biodiversity, wetlands,
erosion and nutrient loss, and pests and diseases. GEF funds will also finance the incremental costs
generated by monitoring socio-economic impacts associated with the GEF alternative.

Project Administration (Total cost US$ 1,250,000; GEF financing US$ 750,000)

GEF funds will be used to finance the operating costs associated with the GEF alternative, specifically
those associated with community level ecosystem planning, implementing of ecosystem management
plans, and monitoring of environmental benefits.




                                                                                                           40

Incremental Cost Matrix

                    Sustainable Baseline (SB)    Alternative (A)               Increment (A-SB)
                    (to address land             (to adapt & modify
                    degradation issues)          baseline activities to
                                                 include a integrated
                                                 ecosystem management
                                                 approach)
Global             ·    Increased agro-          ·   Greater protection of     ·   Improved natural
Biodiversity            biodiversity due to          natural habitats              habitats
Benefits                localized adoption of
                        agroforestry activities  ·   Increased agro-           ·   Improved agro-
                                                     biodiversity and use of       biodiversity and
                                                     indigenous species in         increase in density of
                                                     agroforestry and soil         indigenous species
                                                     fertility improvement
Global Climate     ·    Unmeasured carbon        ·   Development of carbon     ·   Greater carbon
Change Benefits         sequestration benefits       monitoring system             sequestration
                        from increased biomass
                        and vegetative cover     ·   Increased above and       ·   Monitoring of carbon
                                                     below ground carbon           sequestration rates
                                                     sequestration
Global             ·    Erosion control benefits · Greatly increased           ·   Reductions in sediment
International           from localized               erosion control through       and nutrient loads in
Waterway Benefits       improvements in              interventions targeted at     watercourses draining
                        erosion runoff and soil      key watersheds                into Lake Victoria
                        fertility improvements
Domestic Benefits  ·    Economic benefits due · Increased economic and · Improved rehabilitation
                        to increased agricultural    environmental benefits        of natural systems and
                        productivity                 from      functions    and    greater sustainability of
                                                     services    provided by       agricultural production
                                                     improved        ecosystem

Activities/Costs by (US$)                        (US$)                         (US$)
Component:
1. Capacity         3,800,000                    4,700,000                     900,000
Building for       ·    Institutional costs      ·   Institutional costs       ·   Community PRA
Integrated              (government extension        (training, staff costs,       activities
Ecosystem               and research staff)          services) of integrated
Management              associated with              ecosystem management      ·   Identifying IEM
                        community based land         approach to community         interventions and plans
                        management                   and river basin               for 3 river basins
                   ·    Project to empower           planning.
                        local communities in     ·   Scaling up of local       ·   Building KARI and
                        the allocation of            empowerment and               other institution's
                        research and extension       expansion of decision         capacity to measure
                        resources with a focus       making control over           environmental service
                        on ensuring                  resources.                    functions (equipment,
                        environmental            ·   Scaling-up and                training, etc.)
                        sustainability.              refinement of land
                   ·    Project to fund small-       management
                        scale and localized land     investments.
                        management
                        investments.
2. Scaling Up and   500,000                      1,750,000                     1,250,000



                                                                                                          41

                    Sustainable Baseline (SB)     Alternative (A)            Increment (A-SB)
                    (to address land              (to adapt & modify
                    degradation issues)           baseline activities to
                                                  include a integrated
                                                  ecosystem management
                                                  approach)
Financing IEM       ·   Provision of inputs for   ·   On farm, community,    ·   Inputs (seedlings, small
Interventions           localized interventions       and intra-community        scale infrastructure,
                        in community based            interventions focused      tools, etc.) associated
                        land management               on ecosystem               with community PAPs
                                                      management and             and intra-community
                                                      environmental services     ecosystem management
                                                                                 activities
3. Establishing a             650,000                      1,400,000                   750,000
Monitoring and      ·   Government extension      ·   Monitoring and         ·   Monitoring of
Evaluation System       and staff costs               evaluating the impact      biodiversity, GHG
                        associated with               resulting from IEM         accumulation, and
                        monitoring localized          interventions.             socio-economic
                        interventions in land     ·   Establishing the           changes resulting from
                        management.                   capacity for local         project activities
                    ·   Project to develop the        communities to measure
                        capacity to design and        carbon sequestration.
                        assess the feasibility of
                        carbon finance projects.
Project                       500,000                      1,500,000                  1,000,000
Administration      ·   Operating costs           ·   Operating costs        ·   Operating costs
                        associated with               associated with IEM        associated with IEM
                        government research           approach                   plans, community PRA,
                        and extension services                                   monitoring and
                                                                                 evaluation and IEM
                                                                                 services delivered by
                                                                                 project partners
Total                        5,450,000                     9,950,000                  4,500,000

References

Swallow et al. 2001. Improved land management in the Lake Victoria basin: Annual Technical Report
July 2000 to June 2001. ICRAF and MoARD. ICRAF Working Paper 2001 ­ 4.

Walsh M, Shepherd K, Verchot L, Albrect A, Noordvijk M van and Palm C (in progress). A rapid
method for assessing soil carbon saturation deficit. To be submitted to Soil Science Society of America
Journal.

Walsh MG and Shepherd KD (in progress). Remote sensing of soil physical degradation in the Lake
Victoria Basin. To be submitted to Remote Sensing of Environment.

Walsh MG and Shepherd KD (in progress). Screening for soil degradation in the Lake Victoria Basin.
To be submitted to Journal of Environmental. Quality.

Walsh, M.G., K.D. Shepherd and A. Awiti. 2002. Historical effects of land cover and soil erosion on
organic carbon stocks and C:N ratios of soils in western Kenya. Unpublished manuscript. in prep.




                                                                                                        42

                        Annex 3: STAP Technical Review and IA Response

                  KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management.

Yokohama, 3 January 2004

Hiroshi Kadomura
Emeritus Professor, Tokyo Metropolitan University
Special Advisor, Open Research Center,
Graduate School of Geo-Environmental Science, Rissho University

Email address: hkd@n04.itscom.net
Postal address: 1-39 Sumiregaoka, Tsuzuki-ku, Yokohama 224-0013, Japan

Introduction

This is a STAP review report on Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management Project (WKIEMP).
Background information and knowledge for this review are based on: reviewers own           experience of
geomorphological and geo-ecological field work in Western Kenya and other parts of tropical Africa,
including patterns and processes of land degradation/desertification; consultative work on desertification
control and rural development programs conducted by the Japanese governmental organizations and
NGOs; and a member of the International Panel of Expert on Desertification (IPED/INCD). Most of
directly relevant material and information closely related with the proposed project came from the web
pages published by: World Bank, FAO, UNDP, UNEP, Government of Kenya, particularly KARI,
KEFRI, KWC, and KMD, WAC/ICRAF, USAID-Kenya, SIDA-Kenya, GTZ-Kenya, JICA-Kenya,
CARE-Kenya, KWDP, KEEP, ReliefWeb, The Daily Nation, and East African Standard. Among others,
the web pages of Improved Land Management in the Lake Victoria Basin (SIDA-ICRAF/MoARD); Lake
Victoria Environment Management Project (LVEMP) (IAD/GEF); and National Agricultural and
Livestock Extension Project (NALEP) (GoK/SIDA) were particularly useful. However, the views
expressed here are my own and any errors that remain are also my own.

2. Background to and Objectives of the Project

The background and the objectives of the project to be reviewed are described in The Terms of Reference
(TOR) for a SATP Review as follows:

Background

Western Kenya supports one of the densest and poorest populations in the world, with up to 1200
persons/sq. km in some rural areas, and over 58 percent of households living in absolute poverty.
Conversion of woodlands, forests, and wetlands into agricultural production has accelerated in recent
years with significant negative impact on the natural resource base.

Poverty reduction, land degradation, and sustainable agriculture are intricately linked in Western Kenya.
Experiences from Central Kenya, where there is evidence of high productivity, high profits, and good
land management, also are supportive of this relationship.

Objectives of the Project



                                                                                                         43

The proposed project would be implemented in Western Kenya and seeks to improve the productivity and
sustainability of farming systems through a set of interventions designed to promote adoption of
improved land management techniques and value added production in selected watersheds in the Nyando,
Yala, and Nzoia River Basins of Western Kenya.

In order to achieve this, the project will:

  (1) rehabilitate degraded lands through interventions focused on improving soil fertility, agroforestry,
      and introduction of value-added cropping systems; and
  (2) improve the capacity of local communities and institutions, farmer associations, and national
      institutions to identify, formulate, and implement sustainable land management activities capturing
      local and global environmental benefits.

The global environmental objective of the project is to promote integrated ecosystem management so as
to combat land degradation, capture the benefits of reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the
atmosphere, improved on and off farm biodiversity, and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into the
Nyando, Yala and Nzoia River Basins.

Project Implementation and Expected Results

The project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby
communities would decide on resources for infrastructure investments, technical assistance, and
implementation of ecosystem management activities. The project is expected to demonstrate the value of
such approach and will help leverage Government, IDA or other resources for scaling up project
successes in the future.

3. Required Analysis and Specific Assignment

The TOR requires the reviewer to conduct following analysis and review:

Analysis

The consultant should expound on global and regional experience to date, on current best practices, and
that evaluate the risks, constraints and benefits of the approach adopted in the project. The consultant
should also point out the weaknesses of the project proposal, the difficulties that are likely to be
encountered in the implementation of the project, and provide constructive operational suggestions and
alternative approaches that could strengthen the project. The analysis would include impact of the project
on biodiversity, climatic changes, and international waters. The recommendations of the analysis will be
incorporated into the proposed project.

Specific Assignment

The consultant will:

  (a)   Review the scientific and technical soundness of the project including the degree of involvement
        of stakeholders. More specifically, will the approach taken in the project proposal achieve the
        objectives of conserving biodiversity? What are the risks and constraint associated with the
        approach? Is there any gap in the project? Are there any controversial aspects about the project?
        Have all the threats to the ecosystem been adequately considered? Does the type of interventions
        proposed require further research? Are there legal instruments aspects that should be dealt with?
        How will the model of sustainable use outlined in the project be developed? How effective will


                                                                                                         44

         the proposed model be? Is there sufficient evidence in the document that the project offers the
         best long-term solutions?

  (b) Identify the global environmental benefits that will result from the interventions. Does the area of
         intervention have a global importance in terms of ecosystem?
  (c)    Review how the project fit within the context of the goals of GEF;
  (d) Review the importance of the area of intervention from a conservation perspective in the project
         area.
  (e)    Review the scope for replication of the project. Could the intervention be replicated elsewhere on
         the basis of experience and learning?
  (f)    Review the potential for continuation of the changes the project aims to achieve. How will the
         project activities and impact be sustained after the completion of the project?
  (g) Review if the project design is consistent with the operational strategies of other focal areas and
         avoid negative impacts in focal areas outside the focus of the project.
  (h) Review if the linkage to other programs and action plans is sufficiently addressed.
  (i)    Review other beneficial or damaging environmental effects of the project intervention.
  (j)    Does the project contain adequate mechanisms for participation and influencing the management
         of the project?
  (k) Review if adequate attention been paid to capacity building aspects?
  (l)    Review the innovativeness of the project.

4. General Comments and Suggestions on the Project Design

General comments, with suggestions for the improvement of the project design, which have been derived
from glancing through the Project Appraisal Document, are summarized as follows:

1) The objectives of the project are clear. Methodological frameworks and techniques to be applied, and
implementation processes planned sound appropriate for realizing the objectives. The expected results of
interventions will contribute not only to the better soil and water resources management at local level with
enhanced capacity building of local populations, but also to the global environmental issues closely
related with the four Focal Areas of GEF; Land Degradation, International Waters, Biological Diversity,
and Climate Change. All these suggest that the proposed project deserve to be funded by GEF.

2) However, the present form of the project design still includes a number of inadequacies, weaknesses,
difficulties, insufficiency, gaps, and other shortcomings at various degrees, as exemplified below:

3) The title of the project "Integrated Ecosystem Management" is too broad in its meaning and seems to
be unsuitable, since the interventions in the present project will focus on the land management related
with agricultural activities, and will not cover natural ecosystems such as forests, wetlands, protected
areas, and game reserves. In view of this, the most suitable alternative title may be "Integrated
Agroecosystem Management."

4) If the title "Integrated Ecosystem Management" remains unchanged, the interventions should be
extended beyond the cropping lands and even to the above excluded areas. Extensive affrorestation and
reforestation activities in the fringes of Mont Elgon, Kakamega, North Nandi, South Nandi, Northern
Tinderete, Tinderete, Londiani, and other forests, and degraded lands will be most preferable and realistic.
The creation of riparian green corridor networks along river courses, and wise management of wetland
ecosystems both in the upper and lower reaches of rivers are the major options which will afford room for
consideration. These interventions will contribute greatly to the basin-level ecosystem management by
increasing the biodiversity and the capacity of carbon sink than the projected interventions alone.



                                                                                                         45

5) If these interventions will be out of the scope of the present project, it is necessary to address the
necessity of these activities and linkages and/ or complementary actions with programs and projects
dealing with these aspects.

6) It should be noted that the most serious weakness of the proposed project may be the lack of the visible
grand design foreseeing the project goals for the whole target basins. Concrete procedures and timetables
for intervention processes need to be prepared in connection with the below-mentioned comments 8).

7) The spatial coverage of the target basins seems to be still too large to be covered with the limited
number of Focal Areas and to realize the projected programs within five years with limited resources.

8) No concrete procedures, how to extend the methodologies and techniques for erosion control and soil
fertility management acquired through the forerunning programmes in the Nyando River Basin to the
Nzoia and Yala River basins, are given. The applicability of the "Nyando model" in erosion control and
soil management to other basins with different physical, social, and cultural aspects should be carefully
tested during the early appraisal stage.

9) No detailed proposals are found for the two most important elements of the project, i.e., agroforestry
and value-added cropping systems. For the clarification of these systems, for instance, possible new,
alternative tree species (including new variety fruit trees) and cropping systems (types, methods, grafting
technologies, etc.), and their effectiveness to increasing the income as well as to local and global
environmental services need to be illustrated explicitly, on the basis of ample background data
accumulated in the WAC and KARI.

10) The word "on and off farm biodiversity" used elsewhere in the text is vague and needs annotation
what it means in terms of biodiversity conservation for both plants and animals including soil organisms.
"Agrobiodiversity" also needs clarification, with its assessment methods and indicators.

11) For biodiversity in the farming systems, issues related to alien species, particularly invasive alien
species should be addressed.

12) For the contribution of agroforestry and improved land management to the reduction of emission of
GHGs and carbon balance, particularly the issues regarding the creation of certificated carbon emission
units and the development of carbon credit option, thoughtful examination should be given to these
matters, in relation to the progress made in the realization of actions based on the Kyoto Protocol
/UNFCCC. For details of most recent information, consult the UNFCC-COP9 document
"FCCC/SBSTA/2003L.27 Draft decision - /CMP.1 Modalities and Procedures for afforestation and
reforestation project activities under the clean development mechanism in the first commitment period of
Kyoto Protocol."

5. Comments and Suggestions on Specific Assignments

  (a)     Review the scientific and technical soundness of the project including the degree of involvement
          of stakeholders. More specifically, will the approach taken in the project proposal achieve the
          objectives of conserving biodiversity? What are the risks and constraint associated with the
          approach? Is there any gap in the project? Are there any controversial aspects about the project?
          Have all the threats to the ecosystem been adequately considered? Does the type of interventions
          proposed require further research? Are there legal instruments aspects that should be dealt with?
          How will the model of sustainable use outlined in the project be developed? How effective will
          the proposed model be? Is there sufficient evidence in the document that the project offers the
          best long-term solutions?


                                                                                                          46

 Comments and Suggestions:
 Scientific and technical soundness: Generally good. Suggestions for the enhancement of the scientific
       and technical bases are scattered in this and other sections of the report.
 Involvement of stakeholders: Fairly well considered.
 Biodiversity conservation: Well addressed. However, the effectiveness of the project intervention may
       not be overestimated. Exclusion of the conservation of forests, wetlands, and other important
       ecosystems from the project intervention is problematic (cf. 4. 2-5).
 Risks and constraints: One of the most critical risks, that may hinder the successful achievement of the
       interventions, will derive from the vastness and complexity of the targeted basins, and time
       constraints (cf. 4. 6-8). Cautious attention should be paid to avoid the risks of repeating
       unsatisfactory performance of the LVEMP.
 Gap: Logical linkages among the project components need to be strengthened.
 Controversial aspects: 1) The word used in the title "Ecosystem" (cf. 4. 3); 2) Exclusion of forests,
       wetlands and other natural bio-ecosystems (cf. 4. 4-5; 6. 6); and 3) Methodologies for setting net
       Focal Areas and related plots (cf. 6. 7-9).
 Threats to ecosystem: Besides the threats to Lake Victoria, those to forests and their animals by
       cropping land encroachment, woodfuel collection, and other activities within the river catchments
       are not well considered. Threats to the wetlands, river bed, and riparian ecosystems are almost
       neglected.
 Further research: Needed particularly on the methodologies and procedures for the selection of net
       Focal Areas and related plots (cf. 6. 7-9); feasible methodologies and procedures for extending
       the "Nyando model" to the Nzoia and Yala River Basins (cf. 4. 6-8); and the issues related to the
       carbon credit option (cf. 4. 12)
 Legal instruments aspects: Not well addressed. Thoughtful investigation into issues related to the land
       ownership and other legal aspects in land and water management is strongly recommended.
 Sustainability of the model: At the farm-level interventions, the model can only be maintained through
       the application of low-cost, easily-mastered techniques, or improvement of appropriate
       indigenous technologies that are used for daily life. On the other hand, the operation of
       monitoring and assessment systems requiring high cost and skills can only be achieved by the
       routing commitments of the governmental institutions with the donor support.
 Effectiveness of proposed model: Each component (sub-model) of the project such as soil and water
       management, agroforestry with improved fallow systems, and value-added cropping systems may
       be effectively implemented to meat the respective objectives. The effectiveness of proposed
       model as a whole may depend on better coordination and integration among the components.
 Sufficient evidence for the best long-term solutions: Not enough. Mention should be made of how the
       objectives of the project will be achieved through time and in the three different River basins and
       within a basin, by exemplifying expected evidential effects.

 (b)    Identify the global environmental benefits that will result from the interventions. Does the area of
       intervention have a global importance in terms of ecosystem?

 Comments and Suggestions:
 Among the three GEF focal areas of global importance, the contribution to International Waters may be
 accomplished by reducing sediment influx to Lake Victoria, hence to the Nile. In contrast, the benefits
 to the other two areas, Biodiversity and Climate Change are difficult to estimate and may not be
 overestimated. For these two areas, there is much room for further investigation and improvement.

 (c)   Review how the project fit within the context of the goals of GEF;

Comments and Suggestions:


                                                                                                         47

The project, while focusing on Land Degradation issue, inclusively addresses the possible contribution to
International Waters, Biodiversity, and Climate Change. If weaknesses involved in the last two areas (cf.
3) will be allowed, the project fits well the context of the GEF goals.

   (d) Review the importance of the area of intervention from a conservation perspective in the project
          area.

Comments and Suggestions:
It is rational to give a high priority to the hotspots of land degradation and soil fertility loss in setting the
Focal Areas to be intervened. On the other hand, however, the Focal Areas are planned to be selected at
randomly from the three altitudinal zones. Since this approach is rigid and rough, an alternative, flexible
approach need to be considered as suggested in 6. 7-9).

   (e) Review the scope for replication of the project. Could the intervention be replicated elsewhere on
          the basis of experience and learning?

Comments and Suggestions
Yes, it could be particularly replicable to the tropical humid to sub-humid, densely populated and
intensively cultivated areas, which are characterized by high soil erosion risk due to the combined effect
of high rainfall erosivity and highly erodible soil conditions. In replicating to the rain forest areas where
slush and burn cropping systems prevail, some modifications may be necessary according to cropping
systems, physical and socioeconomic conditions.

   (f) Review the potential for continuation of the changes the project aims to achieve. How will the
          project activities and impact be sustained after the completion of the project?

Comments and Suggestions
Cost-effective on-farm activities may be sustained by the empowered farmers, extension workers and
other stakeholders, as long as farmers' economic incentives and government's political will maintained.
Such items needing costly investment and high-technologies as monitoring and assessment of soil
erosion, sediment transport, carbon balance, etc. may not be maintained without continued financial
assistance. For this problem, mention should be made of possible permanent and practical observation
systems after the completion of the project.

   (g) Review if the project design is consistent with the operational strategies of other focal areas and
          avoid negative impacts in focal areas outside the focus of the project.

Comments and Suggestions
It is not clear what the question, particularly "other focal areas" means.

   (h) Review if the linkage to other programs and action plans is sufficiently addressed.

Comments and Suggestions
Not sufficiently addressed. Past (at least during the past 10 years) success stories, influential programs
and action plans in the related fields, including small-scale ones, should be listed and lessons learnt be
summarized.

  (i)     Review other beneficial or damaging environmental effects of the project intervention.

Comments and Suggestions



                                                                                                                48

Downstream effects of soil and water management and soil fertility improvement activities need to be
critically checked. Environmental effects of use or introduction of exotic plant species in erosion control,
agroforestry, and cropping systems also need careful investigation (cf. 4. 11).

  (j)    Does the project contain adequate mechanisms for participation and influencing the management
         of the project?

Comments and Suggestions
The action plan for this matter stated in "Sub-component 2.1: Strengthen Local Development and NRM
Planning" and elsewhere will meet the question.

  (k) Review if adequate attention been paid to capacity building aspects?

Comments and Suggestions
The action plan for this matter stated in "Sub-component 2.1: Strengthen Local Development and NRM
Planning", "sub-component 2.2: Enhanced Capacity for Developing Carbon Finance Proposals", and in
"E. Summary of Project Analysis: 3. Technical" will meet the question. Of biophysical measurement for
carbon financing, concerned target groups or implementers need to be clarified.

  (l)    Review the innovativeness of the project.

Comments and Suggestions
The project has several innovative aspects, including: 1) Intending to fulfill local and global
environmental benefits at the same time, through the local achievement of integrated land management
activities with a view to increased income generation and capacity building at farmer's level; 2) For the
global benefits of the project, the contribution to the four GEF Focal Areas (Land Degradation,
International Waters, Biodiversity, and Climate Change) is explicitly addressed; 3) Adopting a river
basin-oriented approach with hierarchically arranged net focal areas to be intervened; 4) Adopting a set of
new techniques for monitoring and assessing soil erosion and sediment transport; and 5) Seeking the ways
to increase the rate of on-farm carbon sink/stock for the global benefits and to be involved in the
processes of the carbon credit options of the Kyoto Protocol/UNFCC, for creating of found for ensuring
sustained commitment even after the end of the project. However, most of these still need further study
and on-farm verification.

6. Additional Comments and Suggestions

Following additional comments and suggestions have been prepared for further improvement of the
project design, and for the effective implementation of the project.

1) The project will be implemented under unavoidable effects of changing climate and globalization. For
     climate impacts, the targeted river basins of Western Kenya have frequently been attacked by adverse
     climate events, particularly extremely heavy rains, floods, and severe drought, such as the 1997/98 El
     Nino-related heavy rains resulting in unusual floods, drastic soil erosion, and rapid sediment
     transport, and the 1999/2000 La Nina-related drought. Mention should be made of the latest floods
     occurred in the three targeted basins during late April-September 2003, with the worse results of
     persistent inundation in the lowermost reaches of the Nzoia River. Although the main cause of the
     food events was heavy rainfall in the headwaters, particularly in the Cherangany Hills and on the Mt.
     Elgon slopes, deforestation and land degradation, which might have changed hydrological regime and
     accelerated downstream river bed sedimentation, have been blamed for an important factor
     contributing to the extension of flood damage. In view of this, it is advisable that the project design
     will include response strategies to cope with these adverse climate impacts, within the framework of


                                                                                                            49

   soil and water conservation component. Close linkages with flood hazard assessment and drought
   monitoring information systems operated by the GIEWS/FAO, FEWS NET/USAID (particularly the
   Pilot Flood Risk Monitoring Project for the Nzoia River), and RANET-Kenya should be considered.

2) Thoughtful attention should be paid to the diversity in the physical conditions in the target region, in
   terms of landforms, geology, soils, and vegetation, by river basins and within a basin, in selecting
   Focal Areas and related sites to be intervened.

3) Careful attention should also be paid to the diversity and complexity in socioeconomic aspects, in
   particular socio-cultural aspects derived from ethnicity and tradition by rivers basin and within a
   basin, in selecting Focal Areas and related sites to be intervened. For the ethno-sociological aspects, a
   good summary can be found in "Improved Land Management in the Lake Victoria Basin: Annual
   Technical Report July 2000-June 2001, Working Paper 2001-4/ICRAF" and "Design Principles for
   Land and Watershed Management in Western Kenya, Discussion Paper 2001/ICRAF". (These
   documents also include various relevant suggestions used for the improvement of the project design).

4) Strengthen the linkages with the ongoing and planned related projects and programs on natural
   resources management and agricultural development.

5) Reinforce the quantifiable baseline data, both physical conditions and human dimensions. Quantify
   key performance indicators as much as possible both for the baselines and the goals/targets of the
   achievements. For the Yala and Nzoia River Basins, even the baseline data are almost completely
   lacking.

6) Although the tracts of protected areas, wetlands, large-scale commercial agricultural areas, urban
   areas, etc. will be excluded from the net project area (p. 66), the roles played by these tracts in the
   basin hydrological cycle and controlling of and affecting on sediment yield and transport should not
   be ignored. Water collecting stations should be selected systematically so as to enable to estimate the
   contribution to sediment budget not only from targeted areas, but also non-targeted areas including
   these tracts. Intimate linkages with other programs and projects which cover the excluded areas
   within the targeted basins are strongly advisable.

7) The framework of hierarchical arrangement of the net target areas, FAs-Clusters-(Control Plots)-
   Stocking Plots may be innovative, but appears to be highly rigid and mechanical. Selection of
   locations and numbers of areas and plots to be intervened and monitored should be flexible according
   to the size, complexity in physical conditions, land use types, and other socioeconomic conditions,
   including ethnic and cultural aspects. Seriousness of ecological degradation with both in- and off-site
   effects should be properly used for an important criterion defining priority areas.

8) Macro physical setting and land surface division according to the elevation zones, i.e., Lowland,
   Midland, and Highland, although this zonation is correlated with some baseline indicators (p. 66), is
   too rough to depict the spatial variation of ecosystems. This altitudinal zonation primary corresponds
   with temperature regime and dose not necessary relate with other physical factors such as rainfall, soil
   and its fertility, vegetation, etc.

9) In view of this, more sophisticated and detailed approach need to be adopted for setting the Focal
   Areas and for subsequent monitoring and assessment. A suggested alternative approach is the
   geomorphology-based land system mapping technique that will produce meso-scale land system units
   delineated by the combination of landforms, geology, and soil types. These land units may be
   described as Mt. Elgon Volcano, Cherangany Hills, Hasin Gishu Plateau, Nandi Highlands, Nandi
   Escarpment, Kitale Plateau, Kakamega Plateau, Maragoli Hills, Nzoia Bottomlands, Nzoia-Yala


                                                                                                          50

    Deltaic and Marshy Plain, Tinderet Mountain, Nyando Escarpment, Kano Plains, etc. and will give
    more realistic images. A synoptic map covering whole region can be compiled easily based on
    existing material, the Explanatory Soil Map of Kenya (1:1,000,000) by rearranging its legend, with
    the help of satellite data.

10) For the Nzoia and Yala River Basins, erosion risk maps, which is based on the same techniques and
    procedures as applied in producing the map for the Nyando River Basin, are need to be prepared.
    "Hotspots" of land degradation and other related issues should be demarcated on the maps.
    Compilation of soil, vegetation, and carbon use maps for the Nzoia and Yala River Basins is also
    indispensable.

11) In addition to the above basin-scale maps, prepare an eco-climatic (or agro-climatic) zone map
    covering the whole target basins. Mapping of the spatial distribution of rainfall erosivity and its
    probability is also desirable.

12) As a general rule in the humid and sub-humid tropics in equatorial Africa, in the Western Kenya
    Highlands and Plateaus, underlying rocks have been deeply weathered and have provided thick
    erodible material. Therefore, in assessing soil erosion vulnerability, in addition to the nature and
    erodibility of topsoil, those of weathering profile of underlying rocks should be considered.

7. Concluding Remarks

The present form of Project Design needs heavy revision, in full consideration of the comments and
suggestions elaborated in this review report. The present document is complicated in the arrangement of
contents, and includes much duplications, lengthy and repetitious descriptions. More readable text written
with concise and luminous languages is preferable for achieving rapid, effective consultation, and also for
the effective implementation of the project.




                                                                                                         51

Appendix 1: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management Project Response to STAP Review

Reviewer comments                                     Response
The title of the project, integrated ecosystem        The project has included a greater focus on non-
management, is an unsuitable description of the       agro-ecosystem areas including critical habitats and
project's activities, which are focused solely on the other non-farm intervention sites.
agro-ecosystem.

Should the project choose to focus on agro-           The project document has been revised to reflect a
ecosystems only, the project should discuss the       greater focus on the larger ecosystem. The project
necessity of broader ecosystem interventions and      will be implemented within a framework of
the linkages or complementarities between the         government and non-governmental cooperation and
project and other programs and projects addressing    will involve a range of stakeholders. The project
such issues.                                          will draw on local government and non-
                                                      government fora for both planning and
                                                      implementation of project activities. The project
                                                      should, therefore, be linked to ongoing or future
                                                      activities dealing with other aspects of the
                                                      ecosystem (forests, wetlands). The project
                                                      document has been updated to further describe this
                                                      process and the and the need for more linkages with
                                                      other aspects of ecosystem conservation and
                                                      management, see p. 15 and 21.


The spatial coverage of the target basins seems to be The spatial coverage of the project is suitable to test
too large to be covered with the limited number of    a variety of approaches in different agro-ecological
Focal Areas and to realize the projected programs     zones. The project was never intended to cover the
within five years with limited resources.             entire target basins and as such, the project team
                                                      believes that the learning opportunity provided by
                                                      three basins is likely to outweigh the benefits from
                                                      increased coverage on just one river basin.




No concrete procedures, how to extend the             As suggested, the project will draw on the
methodologies and techniques for erosion control      experience of other programs in the different basins
and soil fertility management acquired through the    during planning and implementation. The project
forerunning programs in the Nyando River Basin to     document relies heavily on Nyando data because
the Nzoia and Yala River basins, are given. The       baselines were completed prior to project
applicability of the "Nyando model" in erosion        preparation for the Nyando basin only. It is
control and soil management to other basins with      expected that Yala and Nzoia baselines will be
different physical, social, and cultural aspects      provide guidance for project activities in their
should be carefully tested during the early appraisal respective basins. The project will be implemented
stage.                                                in stages starting with the Nyando Basin followed
                                                      by the Yala and the Nzoia basins in the next two
                                                      years. In addition, the project utilizes a community
                                                      driven development approach to address the
                                                      physical, social and cultural differences in the
                                                      project area. The project document has been
                                                      updated to emphasize this aspect of the project, see
                                                      page 20.

No detailed proposals are found for the two most      As suggested, data and clarification on agroforestry
important elements of the project, i.e., agroforestry and value added cropping systems will be added to



                                                                                                              52

and value-added cropping systems. For the              the project implementation manual.
clarification of these systems, for instance, possible
new, alternative tree species (including new variety
fruit trees) and cropping systems (types, methods,
grafting technologies, etc.), and their effectiveness
to increasing the income as well as to local and
global environmental services need to be illustrated
explicitly, on the basis of ample background data
accumulated in the WAC and KARI.

(i) The word "on and off farm biodiversity" used       (i) The distinction is made to capture impact of the
elsewhere in the text is vague and needs annotation    project, which will have effects on biodiversity off
what it means in terms of biodiversity conservation    farm in critical habitats and the conservation and
for both plants and animals including soil             increase of biodiversity on farms than in other parts
organisms. "Agrobiodiversity" also needs               of the ecosystem. The project design has been
clarification, with its assessment methods and         revised to more precisely define biodiversity and the
indicators.                                            mechanisms for the project to support conservation
                                                       or mitigation strategies, see page 6.
(ii) For biodiversity in the farming systems, issues
related to alien species, particularly invasive alien  (ii) The project intends to promote the use of
species should be addressed.                           indigenous species and the introduction of alien
                                                       invasive species is not envisaged. The project
                                                       document has been changed to reflect this more
                                                       explicitly, see page 21.

For the contribution of agroforestry and improved      The carbon monitoring protocol developed by the
land management to the reduction of emission of        World Agroforestry Center for the project builds on
GHGs and carbon balance, particularly the issues       existing standards and develops new methods for
regarding the creation of certificated carbon          measuring agroforestry based carbon stocks.
emission units and the development of carbon credit Because of the lack of global knowledge about
option, thoughtful examination should be given to      agroforestry based carbon sequestration, the project
these matters, in relation to the progress made in the will engage in "learning by doing" to develop an
realization of actions based on the Kyoto Protocol     accurate monitoring system.
/UNFCCC, particularly "forest CDM".


Biodiversity and climate change are difficult to       The project has developed a more elaborated
estimate and may not be overestimated. For these       monitoring and evaluation protocol to estimate
two areas, there is much room for further              environmental benefits using PDF-B funds. The
investigation and improvement.                         M&E protocol has been reviewed by the Carbon
                                                       Finance team with in the Bank and was found to be
                                                       of acceptable quality. One outcome of project
                                                       activities will be improved capacity to monitor
                                                       environmental benefits. We will be happy to share
                                                       the M & E plan.


The approach to choosing focal areas is rigid, an      The focal area design was chosen on the basis of
alternative, flexible approach need to be considered   extensive field survey which looked at the diversity
as suggested. In particular, thoughtful attention      in soil conditions, vegetation and socio-economic
should be paid to the diversity in the physical        aspects. The result of the survey is well documented
conditions in the target region, in terms of           and has been used to underpin the project design.
landforms, geology, soils, and vegetation, by river
basins and within a basin as well as the diversity
and complexity in socioeconomic aspects.



                                                                                                             53

Success stories, influential programs and action       This is a pilot project and in a way the first of its
plans in the related fields, including small-scale     kind. In other words, there are not many projects
ones, should be listed and lessons learnt be           where one can draw lessons from to enhance the
summarized.                                            impact of the project. The project document,
                                                       nonetheless, will reflect further lessons learned at
                                                       appraisal. See p. 17 for other changes

Downstream effects of soil and water management        The project relies on a participatory approach which
and soil fertility improvement activities need to be   involves multiple stakeholders. This should help
critically checked. Environmental effects of use or    prevent negative downstream effects as should the
introduction of exotic plant species in erosion        technical expertise of project implementing
control, agroforestry, and cropping systems also       agencies. The M & E plan stipulates for periodic
need careful investigation                             monitoring of project activities and taking
                                                       midstream actions as required.


Reinforce the quantifiable baseline data, both         Quantifiable indicators to determine project
physical conditions and human dimensions.              outcome will be agreed upon during appraisal.
Quantify key performance indicators as much as         Further, baseline data will be gathered for the
possible both for the baselines and the goals/targets  remaining two basins during the first year of the
of the achievements. For the Yala and Nzoia River      project. This is also reflected in the M & E plan
Basins, even the baseline data are almost completely developed for the project. Some estimates have
lacking.                                               been, for more detail see Annex 1 of the project
                                                       document.

Although the tracts of protected areas, wetlands,      The project monitoring and evaluation plan will
large-scale commercial agricultural areas, urban       reflect the suggestion that water collecting stations
areas, etc. will be excluded from the net project area should be established so as to estimate the
(p. 66), the roles played by these tracts in the basin contribution to sediment budget not only from
hydrological cycle and controlling of and affecting    targeted areas, but also non-targeted areas including
on sediment yield and transport should not be          these tracts, see annex 9.
ignored. Intimate linkages with other programs and
projects which cover the excluded areas within the
targeted basins are strongly advisable.

As a general rule in the humid and sub-humid           This suggestion will be incorporated in the
tropics in equatorial Africa, in the Western Kenya     monitoring and evaluation section of the project
Highlands and Plateaus, underlying rocks have been document as well as the plans for baseline
deeply weathered and have provided thick erodible      monitoring for the Nzoia and Yala river basins, see
material. Therefore, in assessing soil erosion         page 20.
vulnerability, in addition to the nature and
erodibility of topsoil, those of weathering profile of
underlying rocks should be considered.

Thoughtful investigation into issues related to the    The Environmental and Social Management
land ownership and other legal aspects in land and     Framework currently being developed will
water management is strongly recommended.              addresses how social and environmental impacts
                                                       from the project will be managed.




                                                                                                              54

55

                                 Annex 4: Detailed Project Description

                  KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management.

Selection of Project Interventions Sites

The project will operate within three catchments of the Lake Victoria watershed, namely the Nyando,
Yala, and Nzoia basins. Three focal areas per river basin, each representing a different geographic or
biophysical aspect of the watershed will be selected. The selected focal areas will be approximately 100
square kilometers and represent 8.5 percent of the Nyando basin, 8.9 percent of Yala basin, and 2.3
percent of Nzoia basin. On average, focal areas will cover 10 communities. The criteria for selection of
communities will include the following: (i) the degree of food insecurity and land degradation; (ii)
presence of critical mass of technical expertise and community interest; (iii) availability of sufficient
baseline data to allow assessment of impact; and (iv) the presence of other activities to which the project
can be complimentary. Selection of communities will be performed by stakeholders who are members of
the district development committees.

Integrated Ecosystem Management Approach

The project will utilize and integrated ecosystem management (IEM) approach. The overall goal for the
project is to improve ecosystem performance in terms of biological productivity, integrity, maintenance
and sustainability while at the same time ensuring that these improvements can be adopted by farmers and
decision-makers at various levels and they actually result in poverty alleviation and farmers
empowerment.

The proposed project would support interventions that specifically address the following constraints that
impede the adoption of IEM approaches in Kenya:

·   Absence of necessary data and information required by resource managers, planners and decision-
    makers to mainstream an IEM-based approach into production activities;
·   Weak policy framework and enabling environment supporting the adoption of IEM approaches;
·   Weak institutions at national, regional, and local levels with weak capacity to adopt and implement
    policies formulated in support of IEM objectives;
·   Insufficient technical assistance and financial resources to reduce the perceived risks faced by
    resource managers in the decisions leading to the adoption of non-traditional land management
    strategies in support of IEM objectives;
·   Difficulty in integrating activities related to sustainable ecosystem management that transcend local
    boundaries because of lack of co-ordinated planning across these boundaries.




                                                                                                          56

                       Figure 1 Integrated Natural Resources Management Framework


Project Components

The project will have three main components.

Component 1: Capacity Building for Community Driven Integrated Ecosystem Management

Activities in the first component will focus on two areas of capacity building. The first involve enhancing
the capacity of communities to formulate decentralized action plans called Participatory Action Plans
(PAPs) and providing technical assistance to promote adoption of integrated ecosystem management
approaches. The second area of capacity building aims to enhance the capacity of government and local
institutions to develop proposals and establish the financial and administrative process required to enter
into carbon sequestration contract arrangements. These applications will utilize a demand-driven
approach to mobilize communities and to enable them implement small scale interventions which will
progressively improve their livelihoods while conserving natural resources and providing global
environmental benefits.

The expected environmental benefits from the first component are: (i) an acknowledgement of key
ecosystem management issues within and across communities; (ii) creation of inter and intra-community




                                                                                                          57

land degradation mitigation and biodiversity conservation strategies; and (iii) development of
mechanisms for creation and management of carbon assets.

Sub-component 1.1: Strengthening Local Development and IEM Planning

Activities in this sub-component will utilize a community driven approach to identify major constraints to
rural poverty mitigation and natural resource conservation, and begin planning small scale interventions
with a focus on an ecosystem management. The primary output will be decentralized action plans called
Participatory Action Plans (PAPs).

The development of these PAPs is expected to strengthen the integration of stakeholders including
smallholders, NGOs, local government, and others, by promoting their participation in decision-making
process at the local, district and provincial levels. The project will support farmer associations and
community /farmer organizations through institutional learning involving awareness building, training,
and community mobilization. Emphasis will be on farmer innovators who are community leaders. Project
investments will also support the identification of sites of global environmental importance and the
inclusion of these sites in land use planning.

Community mobilization and priority setting: Community priorities will be identified using Participatory
Rural Appraisal (PRA) methods based on an ecosystem management approach. Community PRAs will be
implemented with technical and institutional backstopping from KARI, World Agroforestry Center,
KEFRI, and MoA. PRAs will be inclusive of different community groups, including women and non-
farmers. Gender considerations are particularly important, To reflect women's concern, the project will:
(i) ensure that women's are represented in the various committees at all levels; (ii) set quota for funds
directed at women; and (iii) include gender dimension in all training programs.

Development of work plans. Planning meetings with community members, extension agents, service
delivery groups or governing agencies will be held to determine community priorities. Once the priorities
are identified, village development committees will develop a detailed work plan for submission and
review by location development committees. Development of a work plan will require technical input
from service providers and implementing partners.

Integrated ecosystem management interventions will be selected as to their capacity for concurrent
productivity improvement and environmental enhancement.

Processing and approval of community proposals. Communities will prepare simple proposals in the
format demonstrated to them at the early stage of the project implementation. These proposals are
submitted to the development committees at Location level who will appraise the proposals against set
criteria. The various proposals will be submitted to the district steering committees and the project
coordination office. The district development committee will assess proposals against set criteria
including level of community contribution, amount of money requested compared to the number of
beneficiaries, gender sensitivity, appropriateness of proposals in terms of environmental, social and
economic considerations and availability of service delivery agencies. Funds for the execution of the
proposals will be transferred as an advance to communities through the district administration.

Timeline for Initiating and Processing of Proposals

                     Activity                                  Time (weeks)
                     Mobilization                              2
                     Participatory Rural Appraisal             1
                     Preparation     and   submission     of 2


                                                                                                         58

                     community proposals
                     Screening and approval of proposals       1
                     Collection of community contribution 2


Contractual arrangements. A contractual agreement for the agreed activities will be in effect between
district administration and village development committee (for fund to be directed to the community) or a
service provider. Contractual agreements will include the project duration, project component and total
indicative budget, a clear statement on what the project can or can not support, how the project should be
implemented, the roles and responsibilities of all parties, and the financial management and procedures.

Communities will be required to contribute a share of total costs, either as cash or in kind. It is anticipated
that most community groups in the project area will have access to bank accounts and will manage some
funds. Where this is not possible, the district administration or a designated body (location office) will
disburse the total amount of funds allocated for community sub-projects. The project will support the
training of community leaders in book keeping, and development of simplified accounting procedures.

Capacity building for Integrated Ecosystem Management Planning. Although local government and
private sector organizations may have been exposed to improved land management interventions, many
have little experience with an ecosystem management approach, particularly one that focuses on
watershed management. Workshops and trainings will be held to sensitize focal area stakeholders and
improve their capacity for ecosystem planning at the district, location, sub location, and community level.
These workshops will also focus on developing upstream-downstream linkages especially between
improved land management and critical biodiversity.

Capacity Building for Technology Dissemination. Support will be provided to stakeholders (KARI,
KEFRI, MoARD, NGOs, local development authorities) to disseminate technologies for community land
management interventions. The activities supported will include development of awareness packages,
community level documentation centers, training of extension workers and rural development
practitioners (NGOs, local development authorities, MoARD extension staff), and development of
extension messages. In addition to technical support and backstopping, this level of support will perform
key roles of interfacing among farmer organizations, the project coordination office (PCO), and
government departments.

Sub-component 1.2: Enhanced Capacity for Developing Carbon Finance:

In order to facilitate the participation of targeted communities in the global carbon market, the project will
build the capacity of local institutions, communities, and government. In particular, the project will
enhance the ability of target local institutions and communities to investigate carbon finance
opportunities, measure baselines, and establish the financial and administrative processes required to enter
into carbon sequestration contracts.

Institutional and administrative strengthening. Participation in the carbon market will require a new set
of administrative and institutional arrangements at the local and national level. This will require a reliable,
and transparent management structure, as well as a community based system for use of the credits for the
collective benefits of the community. The project will test and recommend administration arrangements.
Project support would be given for studies, workshops and partnership building activities. The project
will also provide funds to create the scientific capacity in KARI to monitor and evaluate change in carbon
stocks in the project area, with the eventual aim of gaining experience on how to participate and trade
carbon credits on the international trading market. KARI will establish research collaboration with World



                                                                                                             59

Agroforestry Center, and proceed in a "learning while doing manner", with the eventual emergence of a
strong unit in KARI responsible for research on land resource management and the environment.

Targeted Research. Project resources will be provided to undertake some targeted research to develop
procedures by which carbon and other GHGs can be monitored in a cost effective manner. The
procedures must be spatially and temporally applicable, with reference to land management change over
large landscapes. This requires specialized expertise involving mathematical modeling , remote sensing
and spectral analyses, ecosystem stratification, and GIS experience. Some expertise is already available
in KARI. This will be further developed under the project through research collaboration with World
Agroforestry Center.

Component 2: Scaling up and Financing IEM Interventions

The second component will support implementation of improved land management activities identified
in Sub-component 1, as well as financing the investments identified in the PAPs. The financing
mechanisms will involve contribution (financial and in kind) by the communities in the form of a
"matching grant" to ensure sustainability of the investment. In addition, the community will be required
to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU). Details of the MoU will be finalized in the PIP. The
component will fund activities such as technical and extension assistance for farmers and community
organizations, farm infrastructures to ensure better production and environmental management, improved
seeds/germplasm, fertilizer and other supplies, and other related investments.

Expected environmental benefits are: (i) increased carbon sequestration through use of cover crops, and
tree planting; (ii) decreased sediment load in surrounding watercourses due to reduced erosion; and (iii)
improved awareness and conservation of biodiversity at community level.

Service delivery and technical backstopping. Implementation support for community identified sub-
projects will be provided by a range of stakeholders including government (KARI, KEFRI, MoARD) and
Non-Government actors (CBOs, NGOs). District level administration staff will play a key role in
coordinating service delivery particularly district agriculture, livestock and social services officers.

Where appropriate, and to optimize project costs and minimize duplication of efforts by the different
stakeholders, project activities will draw on the practical lessons from other ongoing projects in the area,
currently being managed through KARI offices in Kisii and Kakamega, as well as the World Agroforestry
Center office in Kisumu. These include the Soil Management Project (SMP), Agricultural Technology
and Information Response Initiative (ATIRI), Legume Research Network Project (LRNP), and the SIDA
sponsored Lake Victoria project.

IEM technologies. A sub-set of IEM approaches will draw on a range of sustainable land management
technologies and services. These would include participatory adaptive on-farm research with farmers,
farmer field schools, farmer-to-farmer exchanges and field days, development of village nurseries to
support agro-forestry, development of local and indigenous bio-diversity resources, improved fallow,
input delivery, alternatives to control land degradation, construction of catchments and land management
interventions to sequester carbon in agricultural landscapes.

Component 3: Establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation System

The integration of development objectives with global environmental objectives requires several
monitoring protocols with several objectives and at several scales. Monitoring procedures have been
developed for a number of the project activities, but some targeted research will be required for
monitoring GHGs. Project resources would be used to support the costs of developing a detailed but cost


                                                                                                          60

effective monitoring and evaluation system, particularly with respect to global environmental services of
carbon sequestration, biodiversity and international waters. The monitoring and evaluation system would
regularly monitor a set of indicators that would serve as benchmarks against which changes could be
measured periodically. To this effect, the project will make full use of the baseline surveys developed
under PDF-B as a reference to measure progress. It is also proposed that the M & E system include
external review in addition to the MTR.

Results from the targeted research activities will be generic for humid tropical regions, and thus could be
applicable to many other regions with similar ecosystems. The expected environmental benefits are: (i)
measurement of changes in carbon stocks and biodiversity levels over the project lifetime including a net-
net accounting of GHG accumulation; (ii) incorporation of environmental monitoring into local
monitoring and evaluation exercises; and (iii) improved capacity for monitoring carbon stocks.

Sub-component 3.1 Socio-economic Impact Monitoring

Community level monitoring of action plans (PAPs), will use the "impact monitoring and assessment"
tools. Progress on the social, economic, agricultural and environmental objectives of the action plans will
be assessed through farmer interviews at regular intervals. Poverty levels will be assessed at the start of
the project based on the 1999 census, but in addition project staff will collect household data, including
livestock populations, to assess change in poverty during the term of the project.

Sub-component 3.2. Biodiversity and River Basin Impact Monitoring

Biodiversity will be monitored through on farm surveys using simplified data forms derived from the
"Alternatives to Slash and Burn "program (see technical annex).The surveys will be conducted during the
monitoring of focal areas. Water quality, erosion, and sediments will be monitored in close collaboration
with the SIDA funded project "Improved Land Management in the Lake Victoria Basin".

The change in livestock numbers will be used to estimate change in CH4 and will contribute to estimates
on N2O. Erosion and nutrient loss will be also monitored using standard procedures. Finally, the
incidence of pests and diseases and the impacts of these on the welfare of farmers in the project area will
be monitored.

Sub-component 3.2. Monitoring of GHGs

The monitoring procedures for GHGs will consist of a mix of field surveys and remote sensing as
important parts of baseline development (see technical annex). Application of remote sensing data will be
tested for spatial and temporal monitoring of carbon, integrated with a structured system of field
validation (ground truthing).

Remote sensing. In each of the project focal areas, ground measurements will be carried out using a
spatially clustered sampling plan related to pixel size and spatial coverage of images available
(QuickBird, ASTER, TM). Fifteen clusters per focal area will be selected at randomly located
intersections on a 500 X 500 m grid. All locations will be geo-referenced and entered on a GIS for future
follow-up surveys.

Field Surveys. Each cluster will be sampled for above and below ground biomass (carbon). Soil carbon
will be analyzed using diffuse reflectance spectrometry (non destructive) calibrated against a standard soil
reference library. In addition, surface observations will be made on parameters such as land use, erosion
status, hydrology, and ecological condition. PAP intervention plots, identified by farmers, will be paired
with closely located control plots in which no project sponsored interventions are being carried out.


                                                                                                           61

Impact assessment will be done using control intervention pairing, in which before-after observations are
paired with observations at control sites. Results will be aggregated by types of management
interventions.

Data analysis and targeted research. Results from the field will be used to develop new allometric (tree
growth) tables representative of western Kenya as well as other humid tropical regions. These tables are
required to give reliable estimates of carbon sequestration for agroforestry interventions. In addition,
equations will be developed to provide scientifically sound estimates of biomass production and soil
carbon sequestration.

Other GHGs, N2O and CH4, will be initially assessed using IPCC coefficients and procedures (Tier 1) but
data will assembled and studies initiated to systematically move to develop generic coefficients for humid
tropical regions (Tier 2). These will be applicable for all countries bordering Lake Victoria, and other
similar ecosystems. At the completion of the targeted research, results will be summarized into simplified
look up tables and coefficients, so that continued monitoring can proceed in a cost effective manner
beyond the term of the project.

The procedures will be applied at the start to establish the baseline and at the end to estimate the project
impacts (carbon sequestration is a relatively slow process). Final results will be calculated on a "net-net"
accounting basis to establish the change in carbon stocks developed by the project.




                                                                                                            62

                              Annex 5: Estimated Project Costs

              KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management




           Project Cost by Component             Local        Foreign         Total
                                              US$ million    US $ million  US$ million
Capacity Building for Community Driven            1.5             3.3          4.8
Sustainable Land Management
Scaling up IEM interventions                      1.5             0.5          2.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                        0.75             0.9          1.65
Project Administration                           0.75            0.75          1.5
Total Baseline Cost                               4.5            5.45          9.95
Physical Contingencies
Price contingencies
Total Project Costs                               4.5            5.45          9.95
Total Financing Required                         2.25            2.25          4.5



            Project Costs By Category            Local        Foreign        Total
                                              US$ million    US $ million  US$ million
Goods                                            0.75           1.5          2.25
Works                                            0.75           0.25          1.0
Services                                          0.5            0.9          1.4
Training                                          0.5             0           0.5
Community sub-projects                            2.0           2.8           4.8
Total Project Costs                               4.5           5.45         9.95
Total Financing Required                         2.25           2.25          4.5




                                                                                      63

                                 Annex 6: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary

                   KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management.


The project does not normally lend itself to classic economic and financial analysis because the expected
institutional strengthening and capacity building benefits cannot in any reliable way be quantified in
monetary terms. Also the demand-driven nature of investments leaves undetermined the specific
investments that will be made under the project, thereby making impossible any rigorous ex-ante
estimation of costs and benefits for the entire project. It is possible, however, with reasonable
assumptions, to assess the profitability of the various types of investment that are likely to be made under
the project and to indirectly estimate approximately the break-even economic rate of return (ERR) below
which the project would not be economically viable.

Given the difficulty of quantifying certain ecosystem interventions, the analysis has been confined to a
sub-set of activities, namely the profitability of various agricultural enterprises in which the communities
and farmers groups are likely to invest in through adoption of improved soil fertility practices. In
particular the analysis reviewed the ex-post cost and benefits data of soil fertility management
technologies tested on farm and on station during the past decade in Western Kenya by World
Agroforestry Center and KARI, and whose adoption the project is expected to upscale. Actual and
potential adoption data for said technologies in Western Kenya were also reviewed to assess the
likelihood of their profitability and economic viability from the point of view of adopters. Available data
on the potential biophysical and economic impact of adoption of the technologies on Lake Victoria,
primarily fish yields were also reviewed, as well as potential earnings from carbon trading.

4. 1.    Financial Costs and Benefits

The profitability of World Agroforestry Center/KARI/KEFRI sustainable land management technologies
in western Kenya

Biomass Transfer of Tithonia Versifolia with or without phosphorus application. Biomass transfer
of tithonia, as a soil fertility management technique, is one of the main technological breakthroughs
achieved by World Agroforestry Center/KARI/KEFRI research activities in Western Kenya in the 1990s.
Financial returns have been analyzed for maize, kale, and tomatoes. A study (Place et al.) found that for
maize in researcher managed trials the application of tithonia biomass at 0.91 or 1.82 tons of dry matter
per hectare (during the first season) increased yields and profits substantially. The biggest increases
occurred, however, when tithonia was integrated with phosphorus fertilizer. The returns to land and labor
were highest when 1.82 tons per hectare of biomass (dried-equivalent) were applied along with 50
kilograms of phosphorus per hectare (e.g. the returns to labor were four times compared with the
unfertilized continuous maize treatment). Nevertheless, it was also found that extension farmers in the
region tended to adopt the technology more for application in high-value vegetables fields than in maize
fields. The study confirmed (Table 1 below) that the biomass transfer system is more profitable on the
higher valued crops as compared to maize. Due to high costs of labor and pesticides, vegetable
production is not profitable in the absence of soil fertility amendments. The addition of tithonia alone
(row 4 under each crop) was not profitable for kale (Brassica oleracea cv acephala) production but was
profitable for tomatoes. This most likely reflects the fact that phosphorus status of soils varies somewhat
in the region. As was the case with maize, the largest impacts occurred when phosphorus was added. For
both crops, the most profitable systems appeared to be tithonia combined with a low dose of phosphorus.

Table 4.1 Economic analysis of biomass transfer on kale and tomatoes in Western Kenya (farmer-managed trial)




                                                                                                             64

 Tithonia fresh     N input from     P input from       Costs for       Costs for     Return to         Return to
     weight           tithonia      rock phosphate        labor           capital        Land            labor
    Tons/ha            Kg/ha            Kg/ha             $/ha             $/ha           $/ha           $/day
Kales
        0                0                 0               571             286            -857           -0.47
        0                0                33               571             339            116             1.12
        0                0                65               571             393            311             1.44

       10                49                0               628             286            -801           -0.26
       10                49               33               628             339            985             2.39
       10                49               65               628             393            820             2.14

                                                        Tomatoes
        0                0                 0               929             500           -1012           -0.08
        0                0               32.5              929             554            -728            0.20
        0                0                65               929             607            752             1.68

       10                49                0               985             500            201             1.12
       10                49              32.5              985             554           1854             2.68
       10                49               65               985             607           1677             2.51


The results of other studies (Jama et al, 2000) indicate that under farmer management conditions tithonia
biomass transfer is not profitable or economically attractive for low-valued maize production at relatively
high rates of application (Table 4.2), but confirm that it is very profitable with kale ­ a high-valued green
vegetable. Application of tithonia biomass to maize, however, can be profitable, particularly at relatively
low rates of tithonia application (Jama et al., 1999).

Table 4.2 Financial analysis for application of tithonia biomass to maize and kale (Brassica oleracea) under farmer-
management conditions in western Kenya

      Crop            Number of       Mean tithonia           Labor cost for      Mean increase
                      farmers         Application rate        Application         in net revenue
                                      (t fresh weight ha-1)   (US$/ha)            (US$/ha)
      Maize                 62                  19                   257                   -153
      Kale                  23                  14                   180                   708
Source: Jama et al (2000) adapted from World Agroforestry Center (1997)

There are some constraints and risks to the use of tithonia biomass transfer including: (i) lack of
awareness by farmers about proper use; (ii) considerable labor is required for cutting and transporting
biomass to fields; (iii) the wide-scale use of tithonia will likely be constrained by its supply as field
boundaries and contours, now used for planting tithonia hedges, are likely to be put to more competitive
uses in the future as in the central highlands of Kenya with higher-valued crops and trees as the demand
for land increases; (iv) nutrient mining by tithonia, the latter is not a legume and therefore does not fix
atmospheric nitrogen , it obtains its nitrogen through effective retrieval of nutrients from the soil, biomass
transfer is therefore only a cycling of nutrients within the farm and landscape; (v) potential to become a
pest, tithonia is a prolific seeder, which can colonize farmlands, become a weed in crop fields and
increase labor for weeding (Jama et al., 2000).

Improved fallows. Fallow, improved with tephrosia, crotalaria , sesbania and other leguminous shrubs
and trees, is another major soil fertility management technology developed and validated in Western
Kenya during the 1990s. According to surveys conducted in 1998 and 1999 (Place et al), about 79 % of
farmers reported that subsequent crop yields were positively affected by the fallows, through soil fertility
improvement and weed reduction (notably striga).




                                                                                                                    65

Tephrosia and Crotalaria fallows. Table 4.3 presents an analysis of two farmer-managed trials in western
Kenya (Place et al). The first trial was for four seasons and the second trial was for three seasons. The
crop following the fallow was maize or maize/bean. In the first trial, the natural fallow system was found
to be unproductive and not financially attractive compared to all other systems. The tephrosia fallow
without phosphorus inputs was the most financially attractive by both returns to land and returns to labor
criteria. The crotalaria system, favored by most farmers, gave poor results in the first season and thus was
superior to the continuous cropping practice only in returns to labor. For this system, the addition of
phosphorus increased returns substantially. A second trial involving more farmers (about 30) found that
the crotalaria fallow system without any additional fertilizer was far superior to that of the continuous
cropping system. The returns to land and labor were 45 percent and 33 percent higher respectively.

Table 4.3 Financial analysis of improved fallows on maize and beans for three seasons in Western Kenya
(farmer-managed trial)

Land Use System       P rate       Average total Average total Total           Return         Return
                                   yield: maize    yield: beans    Costs       to             to
                                                                               land           labor
                            Kg           Kg              Kg              $          $/ha           $/day
Trial 1 (total N = 34)
Continuous                  0           4390             969            585          405            1.74
Cropping                   250          5025            1191           1047          108            1.14
Natural                     0           2626             519            442          148            1.36
Fallow                     250          3573             681            904         -131            0.63
Crotalaria                  0           3964             855            484          397            1.87
Fallow                      50          5191            1035            588          528            2.13
Tephrosia                   0           5122             962            495          588            2.31
Fallow                      50          5440             867            588          534            2.14
                                             Trial 2 (total N = 61)
Continuous                  0           4160              0             388          242            1.53
Cropping                    50          4505              0             481          189            1.40
Crotalaria                  0           4498              0             313          351            2.04
Fallow                      50          4414              0             404          249            1.71


Sesbania fallows. Studies on Sesbania tree fallows also indicate that the rotation of Sesbania sesban, a
fast growing nitrogen-fixing tree, with maize, complemented with P (phosphorus) application can
generate attractive returns to land and labor and be more financially profitable than local practices where
sufficient rainfall is available (>= 500 mm rain in each of 3 seasons at Ochinga in Table 4.4 below), but
not financially attractive where rainfall is relatively low (< 300mm in each post fallow season, in
Muange in Table below).

Table 4.4 Effect of previous land-use system and phosphorus on net benefit, net cash return, and return to labor for
seven seasons at two sites in Kenya

                Net Benefit               Return to land                           Return to labor
 Previous land use system       No P       + P           Difference     No P         +P          Difference

                                $/ha       $/ha          $/ha           $/day        $/day       $/day/ha
 Ochinga

 Maize monoculture              -52        -56           -4             0.68         0.67        -0.01
 Natural fallow-maize           273        105           -168*          1.10         0.82        -0.28**
 Sesbania fallow-maize          170        334           164*           0.92         1.06        0.14

 SED                            235                                     0.26
 Muange




                                                                                                                    66

 Maize monoculture             109        19           -90              0.82       0.71     - 0.11
 Natural fallow-maize          161        46           -115             0.94       0.73     - 0.21*
 Sesbania fallow-maize         -81        66           147*             0.50       0.75     0. 25*

 SED                           124                                      0.15
* = significant at P=.20; ** = significant at P=.10; SED= standard error of the difference
Source : Jama et al., 1998

Fallows with different sources of Phosphorus

The use of different sources of phosphorus, such as TSP (triple super phosphate) and PR (phosphate rock)
does not affect the profitability of the improved fallow systems, as shown by Pommels (2000) in the
following table.

Table 4. 5 Enterprise budget analysis for different sources of P (50 kg/ha)

      Land use        P source    P            No. of          Maize        Total    Return    Return to
      system                     Rate      Observations        Yield        Costs    to Land    Labor
                                Kg/ha            #             Kg/ha        $/ha      $/ha      $/day
      Continuous      Control     0              10            4160         388        242       1.53
      Cropping          RP        50             4             3835         455        114       1.25
                        TSP       50             24            4505         481        189       1.40
      Crotalaria      Control     0              7             4498         313        351       2.04
      Fallow            RP        50             6             5118         388        358       2.06
                        TSP       50             20            4414         404        249       1.71
      Max SED                                                                           98       0.26
      Min SED                                                                           49       0.13
Source: Romelese, 2000.

Improved fallows appear to be an attractive financial alternative to the traditional cropping systems,
regarding both returns to land and labor. The Tephrosia fallow appears to be the most financially
attractive. Improved fallows with a small dose of P (50 kg/ha) appear to perform financially superior to
large doses of P under continuous cultivation and natural fallows in western Kenya.

Economic Costs and Benefits

The incremental aggregate income (or GDP values added) that the project would generate in western
Kenya over the next twenty years as a result of the project was estimated as follows:

Project Beneficiaries and Base Income

It was assumed that the project would cover 10 districts or 60 villages in five years, each village
containing about 500 households. A base average income of one dollar ($1) per day and per household
was assumed on the basis of statistical reports and discussions with district officers during project
preparation. It was also assumed, based on current statistics, that this income would continue to grow at a
rate of 5% per annum in absence of the project. The income stream without the project is as shown in
Table 4.6 below.

Table 4.6 Aggregate income stream without the project


Year                               1          2         3          4       5     6       7     8        9 10 - 20
Districts Joining                  2          2         2          2       2     0       0     0        0   0
Districts covered at Year End      2          4         6          8      10     10     10    10       10  10



                                                                                                               67

No of Villages (6/District/year)   12       24      36       48    60     66      73     80      88      97
Base Income Per household per
day(US$)                            1       1.05   1.10     1.16   1.22  1.28    1.34    1.41   1.48    1.55
Av. Number of households per
village                           500       500    500      500    500   500     500     500    500      500
number of days per year           365       365    365      365    365   365     365     365    365      365
Base annual Income Per village
(US000$)                          183       192    201      211    222   233     245     257    270      283
Total base Villages Income,
beginning of year (US$m)          2.19      4.60   7.24     10.14 13.31 15.37   17.76   20.51  23.69    27.36
Base annual income growth in
absence of project                0.05      0.05   0.05     0.05   0.05  0.05    0.05    0.05   0.05    0.05
Total villages Income at year end
without project ($m)              2.30      4.83   7.61     10.65 13.98 16.14   18.64   21.53  24.87    28.73

Productivity and income growth rates with the project

The rural economy in western Kenya being mostly a labor intensive economy, it was assumed that as a
result of the adoption and implementation of the new technologies, labor productivity on farm and off-
farm, and thereby income would grow at the same rate as the returns to labor. The labor productivity
growth rates or rates of growth of returns to labor caused by the new technologies , as suggested by the
previous financial analysis are in the range of 33 percent to 77 percent as computed in Table 4.7 below.

Table 4.7 Growth rates of the return to labor due to World Agroforestry Center/KARI technologies

 Crop and                 Control    Control     Average      New        New          Average      Growth
 Tecnology                Return 1   Return 2    Control      Return 1   Return 2     New          rate of
                                                 Retun                                return       Return
 Kales/Tithonia           1.12       1.44        1.28         2.39       2.14         2.26         + 77 %
 Tomatoes/Tithonia                   1.68                                2.51                      +49 %
 Maize/Crotalaria         1.53                                2.04                                 + 33%
 fallow
Source: Tables 4.1; 4.3 and 4.5

Since the technologies are not likely to be widely adopted by all beneficiaries, the 33 percent to 77
percent higher and lower bounds of the productivity growth rate have been adjusted downward by using
the average adoption rates of the technologies as coefficients.

Adoption of the Agro-forestry Technologies in Western Kenya

The results of surveys over the years shown in Tables 4.8 and 4.9 below indicate that 10 to 25 percent of
farmers in pilot villages involved in the research process have adopted the technologies and that 5 to 14
percent of farmers in non-pilot villages have also adopted the technologies. Although the adoption rate is
relatively low, it provides an indication that there exist in Western Kenya farmers and villages (probably
those who suffer most from land degradation, most progressive and most risk takers) who find the
technologies financially profitable or economically viable, given their own circumstances, otherwise
there would be no reason for adoption. Swinkels (1997) in his potential adoption studies in Western
Kenya found that a break-even increase of at least 21 percent in maize yield by the improved fallows
would be necessary to induce the adoption of the technology in maize fields.

Table 4.8 Use of Agroforestry in the Pilot Villages Over Time (% of 1,538 households)

         Year / Season      Biomass Transfer Improved Fallow



                                                                                                           68

         1997 Long            10.8                  **
         rains
         1997 Short           10.4                  **
         rains
         1998 Long            20.9                 20.5
         rains
         1998 Short           20.0                 20.8
         rains
         1999 Long            25.9                 23.1
         rains
         1999 Short           6.8                  21.9
         rains
         2000 Long            12.3                 13.5
         rains
         2000 Short           7.4                  14.0
         rains
         2001 Long            16.7                 15.2
         rains
         2001 Short           11.2                 13.1
         rains

**data not available

Table 4.9 Use of Agroforestry in Non-Pilot Villages over time (% of 360 households)

             Year       Biomass transfer     Improved fallow
             1997             6.1                   4.1
             1998             8.0                   7.2
             1999             14.7                 13.7
             2000             19.9                 13.0
             2001             21.6                 12.4

There are other more traditional soil and water conservation technologies that appear to be more adopted
by communities in Western Kenya, as demonstrated by the results (Table 4.10) of an adoption survey in
the Rongo catchments in Western Kenya.

Table 4.10 SWC Technologies adopted, implemented, and proportion of households advised in Rongo
catchments (N= 94 farmers)

 Type of technology       Proportion of   Proportion          Proportion        Proportion of
 adopted                  households (%)  of Male              of Female        Farmers advised by
                                          implementers        Implementers      extension
 Stone wall                     69                61                 3                   3
 Sisal strip                    45                40                 3                   3
 Roof catchments                43                41                 2                   0
 Woodlot                        20                18                 2                   2
 Fanya Juu                      17                15                 1                   3
 Unploughed strip               16                14                 1                   2
 Euphorbia strip                13                -                   -                  0
 Hedge strip                     3                3                  0                   0
 Grass strip                     3                2                  1                   0
 Banana strip                    1                0                  1                   0
 Fanya chini                     1                0                  0                   0
 Cut off drain                   1                3                  0                   0
 Retention ditch                 1                -                   -                  0
 Water pond                      1                -                   -                  0
Source : World Agroforestry Center, 2000


                                                                                                       69

Incremental aggregate income estimation based on the conservative adoption rates of 14 to 18 percent of
households, and on three levels of productivity growth rate were made and resulted in the following
income stream as shown in Table 4.11 below. It is also assumed that after the project ends, the number of
villages where the technologies are adopted would grow by 10 percent every year until year 2010.

Table 4.11 Expected aggregate Income stream, with the project


Year                                1      2       3        4      5       6      7       8     9   10-20


Minimum productivity growth
rate(pgr) with project            0.33   0.33     0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33  0.33    0.33   0.33  0.33
Medium productivity growth rate
(pgr) with project                 0.5    0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5     0.5    0.5     0.5   0.5    0.5
Maximum productivity growth
rate(pgr) with project            0.77   0.77     0.77    0.77    0.77    0.77  0.77    0.77   0.77  0.77
Average technology
adoption/impact ratio             0.14   0.14     0.15    0.15    0.16    0.16  0.17    0.17   0.18  0.18
Rate of adoption expansion to
non-project villages/yr           0.00     -        -       0      0      0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1    0.1
Min pgr- villages income at year
end with project,$m               2.39   5.01     7.91    11.07 15.45 16.83 19.49 22.51 26.06 32.56
Med-pgr villages income at year
end with project ,$m              2.44   5.12     8.09    11.33 15.81 17.25 20.00 23.10 26.79 33.39
Max-pgr villages income at year
end with project ,$m              2.52   5.29     8.39    11.74 16.38 17.91 20.82 24.04 27.94 34.72

The incremental aggregate income streams, by productivity growth rate assumption, derived from the
above tables were as shown in Table 4.12 below. Project cost based on disbursement plan up to year five,
and based on beneficiaries maintenance cost contributions post-project period are also shown in the table
below.

Table 4.12 Aggregate incremental income streams due to project, project investment cost ($m) and computed
economic rates of return (ERR)



Year                        1     2      3      4       5       6        7      8        9    10-20 ERR %
Minimum Productivty
growth-
incremental aggregate
income                    0.09  0.18   0.30    0.43   1.47     0.60    0.85    0.98    1.19    1.38 10
Medium Productivity
growth-
incremental aggregate
income                    0.14   0.29  0.49    0.68   0.96     1.11    1.36    1.57    1.92    2.22 22
Maximum productivity
growth-                                                                                             41
 incremental aggregate
income                    0.22   0.46  0.78    1.10   1.53     1.77    2.17    2.51    3.07    3.55


Project Cost ($m)         0.50   1.00  1.50    2.00   1.50     0.20    0.25    0.30    0.35    0.40




                                                                                                        70

Break ­even Point                                                                                      12


Break-Even Economic Rate of Returns

The resulting economic rates of returns from the low to high productivity growth rates are 10 percent, 22
percent, and 41 percent respectively. The break even ERR that would justify investment under the project
is 12 percent. This means that a productivity growth rate higher than 33 percent would be needed in order
to economically justify the project.

4.3      Social Costs and Benefits

The project is also expected to generate additional income from at least two of its externalities: carbon
sequestration and reduction of sediment loads into Lake Victoria.

Carbon sequestration

Carbon dioxide emission reduction is estimated to reach about 200,000 tons at the end of the project
implementation period (World Agroforestry Center,...) with a value of about one million US dollars
($870,000) at the end of the project, and much more in the tenth year, based on conservative prices
between 4 and 6 dollars per ton. The CO2 emission reduction was calculated as shown in Table 4.13
below.

Table 4.13 Carbon sequestration benefits


Year                                   1       2        3      4       5     6        7       8      9    10
Carbon stock for 2500 ha in 1000
tons                                                                  31                                  32
CO2 emission reduction for 2500 ha
in 1000 tons                                                         114                                  117
Area cultivated per household in
hectares                                                               1                                   1
Area cultivated by all household in
hectares                                                            30000                                48,315
Area where technologies are adopted
in hectares                                                         4,800                                8,697
CO2 emission reduction in adoption
area, in 1000 tons                                                   218                                  409
Expected CO2 Emission Reduction
1000tons, all villages                                               218                                  409
Expected net CO2ER price $ per ton
of CO2                                                                 4                                   6
Expected carbon revenue, all villages
($M)                                 0.00      -        -      0     0.87    0        0       0      0    2.45

Lake Victoria

Several studies provide estimates of annual sediment load into Lake Victoria. For example, it is estimated
that the annual sediment load into the Sondu Miriu river is 150t/km2; while it is 423t/km2 in the Nyando
river [World Agroforestry Center, 2000]. Unfortunately, no analysis of the impact of the sediments on the
economy of Lake Victoria, in particular on fish production has been found. It was assumed, for the




                                                                                                         71

purpose of this analysis, that the economic impact of the project on sediment load reduction and on fish
production in the lake is negligible or nil.

The Project Break-even Social Rate of Return

The results obtained by adding carbon sequestration benefits to the economic benefits suggest that the
break-even social rate of return of the project is about 12 percent. The project would have to increase the
annual growth rate of income in Western Kenya from an assumed 5 percent income growth rate (without
the project) to at least 8.4 percent in order to economically and socially justify the investment planned
under the project. The minimum expected productivity growth from available improved technologies
rate of 33 percent and low adoption rate of 14 to 18 percent produce a social rate of return of at least 15
percent, while the medium and high productivity growth rates of 50 percent and 77 percent suggest much
higher social rates of returns of 28 and 47 percent respectively, even after assuming relatively
conservative adoption rates of 14 to 18 percent. The rates of return do not take into account of the
potential economic gains from improved technologies for the Lake Victoria's economy. Thus, the project
appears economically viable.

Table 4.14 Aggregate incremental income stream, including carbon income, project costs stream ($m), and
computed social rates of return (SRR).


                                                                                                        SRR
Year                        1        2      3        4       5      6      7       8       9      10     %
Minimum Productivty
growth-                                                                                                  15
incremental aggregate
income                     0.09    0.18   0.30     0.43     1.47   0.69   0.85   0.98     1.19    3.83
Medium Productivity
growth-                                                                                                  28
incremental aggregate
income                     0.14    0.29    0.49    0.68     1.83   1.11   1.36   1.57     1.92    4.67
Maximum productivity
growth-                                                                                                  47
incremental aggregate
income                     0.22    0.46    0.78    1.10     2.41   1.77   2.17   2.51     3.07    6.00

Project Cost ($m)          0.50    1.00   1.50     2.00     1.50   0.20   0.25   0.30     0.35    0.40

Break ­even Point                                                                                        12


Table 4.15 Variation in Social Rate of Return of Project to Real Village Income Growth (%)

Assumed real Assumed           Real annual     Assumed real Implied Real      Resultant Social Benefit/Cost
annual growth Productivity     growth in       annual growth Village Income Rate of Return     Ratio at 12
in village      Growth rate of village         in village     Increase over   (SRR )           percent
income          SLM            income, with income            the project                      Discount Rate
without the     technologies the project       resulting from period
project         1/                             the project    2004-2009

      5.0             77            16.5            11.5            72.3             47              2.70
      5.0             50            12.2             7.2            41.5             28              1.82
      5.0             33             9.1             4.1            22.2             15              1.26
      5.0             30             8. 4            3.4            18.2             12              1.00
1/ applied to only 14%-18% of farmers (adoption rate), SLM = sustainable land management



                                                                                                          72

4.4 Sensitivity Analysis

Variation in base income growth rate without the project

As shown in Table 4.16 below the break-even social rate of return (SRR) needed to justify the project
remains invariable at 12% no matter what base income growth rate is assumed between 0 and 5 percent
per year. The higher the assumed base income growth rate, however, the lower the incremental income
growth rate needed to justify the project. The latter declines from 4.7 percent for a base income growth
rate of 0 - 3.4 percent for a base income growth rate of 5 percent.



 Assumed base real     Break even social      Benefit/Cost ratio   Resulting        real Incremental       real
 income growth rate rate of return needed                          income growth rate income growth rate
 without the project   to justify the project                      with the project      needed to justify the
                                                                                         project
         0%                     12%                    1.0                4.7%                    4.7%
        1.0%                    12%                    1.0                5.4%                    4.4%
        2.0%                    12%                    1.0                6.1%                    4.1%
        3.0%                    12%                    1.0                6.9%                    3.9%
        4.0%                    12%                    1.0                7.7%                    3.7%
        5.0%                    12%                    1.0                8.4%                    3.4%



Variation in base income level and in its growth rate

As shown in table 4.17, the change in the base income per household from $1/day to 50 cents/day or to
$1.5/day, combined with changes in its growth rate without the project (0%, 2%. 4%) has very little or no
impact on the break-even rate of return needed to justify the project. The lower the base income, however,
the greater the growth rate of income needed to justify the project and vice versa.

Table 4.16 Variation in base income level and in its growth rate

 Base income per       Assumed annual         Break-even Social    Resulting total       Incremental       real
 household per day     growth rate of the     rate of return (SRR) income growth rate    income growth rate
 without the project   base income without needed to justify the   per year with the     needed per year to
 ($/household)         the project            project              project               justify the project
        0.50                     0%                    12%                9.2%                    9.2%
        0.50                     2%                    12%                10.2%                   8.2%
        0.50                     4%                    11%                11.0%                   7.0%
        1.00                     0%                    12%                4.7%                    4.7%
        1.50                     2%                    12%                4.7%                    2.7%

Overall, the model appears to provide a robust estimate of the break-even social rate of return (12
percent) needed to justify the project.


References

World Agroforestry Center, 2000: Improved land management in the Lake Victoria basin: linking land
and lake, research and extension, catchments and lake basin, final technical report-startup phase-July
1999 to June 2000, World Agroforestry Center working paper 2000-2, Nairobi.



                                                                                                            73

74

                            Annex 7: Financial Summary

              KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management




                                    Implementation Period
                         Year 1   Year 2   Year 3  Year 4 Year 5 Total
Total financing
required
Total Project
         Investment       0.6       1.1     1.4      0.8  0.75   4.65
         Costs
         Recurrent        0.4       0.4     0.2      0.2   0.2   1.6
         Costs
Total Project Costs        1        1.5     1.6      1.0  0.95   6.25
Total Financing           0.6       1.0     1.4     0.75  0.75   4.5

Financing
    IDA
    Government            0.6       1.0     0.7     0.25   0.2   2.75
    Other                 2.2       .35     .15       0     0    2.7
    GEF                   0.6       1.0     1.4     0.75  0.75   4.5
Total Project Financing   1.0       1.5     1.6      1.0  0.95   9.95

                                 Annex 8A: Procurement Arrangements

                   KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management.


Procurement of goods and works for all IDA financed components will be carried out in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services by firm or individuals
financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1977 and January 1999,
and May 2002). The appropriate World Bank standard bidding documents will be used for all
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and the World Bank's standard Request for Proposals (RFP) for
the selection of consultants.

In recent years, Kenya has increased its national procurement capacity and there is currently no conflict
between the Government's Procurement Regulations and the Bank Guidelines. Following the findings
and recommendations of a Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) conducted in 1997, the
Government of Kenya received Bank assistance to implement CPAR recommendations. Using the
proceeds of the grant, Government initiated a procurement reform program resulting in National Public
Procurement Regulations in March 2001. The Regulations govern all public procuring entities and include
the production of standard bidding documents for works and goods, and allow the Bank procedures to
take precedence over other procurement provisions in the national regulations.

Community Procurement. Most of the procurement in the project will be in the form of small
transactions taking place locally at the Sub-location, Location and District levels. Each participating
district will receive funds in tranches before applying for a second fund tranche.

Procurement arrangements will take into consideration the "learning by doing" nature of the project, as
well as the central focus on community funds. The arrangements will aim at efficient procurement for a
quick disbursement and delivery of goods. Simplified procurement, disbursement, accounting, and
auditing would be used in line with the Africa Region's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement, March 1998, and Bank Procurement Guidelines, January 1999, section 3.15 Community
Participation in Procurement. Local shopping, single-source selection, obtaining quotations, and direct
contracting would be allowed under specified procedures.

Accessing resources does not guarantee access to required materials, therefore, each districts may have to
devise its own solution within the agreed procurement manual that will be prepared by the Government.
The procurement elements by disbursement category and procumbent methods are summarized in the
tables below, as are consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods. The selection
methods and thresholds will be determined after the types of required consultancies and their cost
estimates have been identified by the implementing institutions.

The project provides funds for beneficiary executed projects at community levels. Financing will depend
on application received from communities and their procurement details will depend on the needs
identifies by the communities. Procurement of these would be carried out in accordance with simplified
procurement procedures referred herein above. The project coordination office will be responsible for
ensuring compliance of these guidelines. Ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted
periodically by the Bank and through independent technical audits carried out by independent consultants.
The Bank's standard procurement bid documents will be used for procurement of works and goods,
except for those sub-projects executed at village levels.



                                                                                                         76

Goods. The project will finance the procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, office equipment and field
equipment. Goods to be procured will be lumped into lots estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more and will
be procured under ICB procedures. Goods that can not be lumped together into lots of US$100,000 and
cost no less than US$100,000 more than US$50,000 per contract and are available locally can be procured
using NCB procedures. Procurement for the off-the-shelf goods or standard commodities costing
US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract will be procured through prudent local shopping on the basis of
quotation from at least three suppliers. In case goods are not available in the country, international
shopping procedures will be followed. Goods may also be procured from UN agencies provided each
contract does not exceed US$50,000.

Consultant Services. Consulting service financed by the project will be for studies, technical audits,
monitoring and evaluation, technical assistance to communities, training of staff and local communities.

Consultants services will normally be procured through the selection of short-listed firms on the basis of
Quality and Cost-based selection (QCBS), except for technical matters where direct procurement will
apply due to the specialized nature of the technical assistance. Consulting services for preparation of
training will be based on consultant qualification (QBS) based on work experience and competence
relevant to the assignment. Services for tasks such as organizing seminars and workshops shall be
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants. Short-lists of consultants for contracts for
community sub-projects estimated to cost less than US$20,000 each may consist entirely local nationals
selected from at least three qualified firms or NGOs.

Single Source Selection. This will be used only under exceptional circumstances for the selection of
services of specialized nature provided the aggregate amount of such service do not exceed US$ 250,000
over the life of the project.

Prior Review. All goods and works contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or more will be subject to
IDA's prior review of bidding documents, including draft contracts and technical specifications prior to
inviting bids and bid evaluation prior to contract award. In addition, the evaluation of technical proposals
must be cleared with IDA before the financial proposals are opened.

Post Review. All contracts not subject to prior review will be subject to post-review.
Once a year, a procurement accredited Bank staff will conduct a post review of a sample of contract not
subjected to prior review. The Borrower will maintain a procurement register related to procurement to
assist in such ex-post review and for a review by the project staff. The overall procurement risk
assessment is expected to be high.

Capacity Building. The main role of the project coordination office located in the project area will be to
assist communities to execute procurement done at their level. The project office will be strengthened
with additional training as required. The annual procurement plan will include a procurement plan by
procurement method. The annual report will also contain an overview of all procurement to date and an
evaluation of procurement problems encountered during the year under review.

Procurement Manual. A project implementation manual will be prepared by the client in form
satisfactory to the Association. The manual will consist reference to specific procedures. The manual will
be finalized as a condition of negotiations. The manual will include illegibility criteria, procedure for
calling bids, selection of contractors, service providers and contract award, supervision and financial
management and disbursement procedures.

Assurances obtained at negotiations. The following assurances were obtained during negotiations: (a)
the use of IDA's standard bid documents and standard evaluation reports; (b) annual review of the


                                                                                                          77

procurement plan and arrangements as part of the annual reports; (c) the procurement plan will be updated
bi-annually and submitted to IDA; and (d) the establishment of a procurement register recording contract
information, updated procurement plan, and compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.

      Procurement Phase                           Time (weeks)
      Preparation of bidding documents
      Preparation of bids by bidders
      Bid evaluation
      Signature of contracts
      Payments

Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure       Procurement Methods                                                 Total Cost
Category          ICB               NCB           SSS               Others
Works
Goods
Services
Funds for Sub-
Projects
Operating
Costs
Total



Table 2 Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

Expenditure Category       Contract Value         Procurement Methods        Contracts Subject to
                           Threshold (US$                                    Prior Review
                           thousands)
1.Works
2. Goods                                          ICB                        Prior Review
                                                  NCB                        Post Review
                                                  NS                         Post Review
3. Services                                                                  All TORs or sole source
                                                                             contracts are subject to
                                                                             IDA Prior Review

                                                                             Prior Review
3.1. Individuals                                  Individual Consultants     Post Review

                                                  QCBS                       Prior review
3.2. Firms                                        QBC                        Post Review
                                                  LCS
4. Funds for Sub-                                 Conform to procedures      Subject to Post reviews
Projects                                          detailed in the            based on random
                                                  Implementation Manual      sampling



Procurement Arrangements by Institution. The following institutions and groups will play distinct
roles in the implementation of the project: (1) KARI is the overall project implementing agency; (2)
Project Coordination Office in Kisumu will be responsible for overseeing and facilitation of sub-projects


                                                                                                        78

implemented by district interest groups (DIGs), and community development committees (CDs); (3)
DIGs and CDCs will be implementing priority sub-projects identified by their respective constituencies;
and (4) research institutions will be carrying out research activities in their respective fields. The roles of
these four institutions and community groups in the implementation of the project as well as their
responsibilities in the procurement function with respect to their activities in the project and appropriate
procurement methods to each level are summarized in the Table below.

Institution/      Role in project implementation                  Role in procurement        Appropriate
Group                                                                                        procurement
                                                                                             method1
1. KARI           Overall management of the project              Development of              · ICB
                  including                                      procurement procedures
                                                                 that are suitable to each   · NCB
                                                                 group of project
                                                                 beneficiaries
                  a. management of project account;              a. Organizing appropriate
                                                                  training courses to all
                                                                  project implementing
                                                                  institutions
                  b. Transfer of funds into the accounts of      b. Procurement of           · International
                  other implementing institutions/groups on      relatively large contracts       Shopping
                  arrangements to be agreed and defined in a of goods and works where
                  Project Operational Manual                     centralized procurement is  · Procurement of
                                                                 more suitable                    consultancy
                                                                 economically,                    services through
                                                                 consultancy services of          QCBS, QBS and
                                                                 national nature and              Single sourcing
                                                                 procurement of
                                                                 requirements that can be
                                                                 supplied from outside
                                                                 Kenya
                  c. Supervision of project implementation;.      c. Carrying out periodical
                                                                 reviews of the physical
                                                                 project outputs and
                                                                 procurement
                                                                 documentation to
                                                                 ascertain that governing
                                                                 procurement procedures
                                                                 are adhered to
                  d. Assisting project beneficiaries in the
                  following areas:
                  (i) Carrying out need assessments of
                  project beneficiaries and implementers
                  (ii) Carrying out capacity assessment of
                  the beneficiaries in implementing sub-
                  projects
                  (iii) Assisting interest groups at district and
                  community levels in establishing DDIGs
                  and CDCs to be responsible for the

1Appropriate thresholds for the different procurement methods will be set determined at appraisal, i.e. after
requirements of the implementing institutions of project components have been defined. Procurement under
community sub-projects will be carried out in accordance with the Africa Region's Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement. The provisions of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Consultants' Guidelines
will apply to procurement under project components implemented by public institutions


                                                                                                                 79

Institution/       Role in project implementation                Role in procurement          Appropriate
Group                                                                                         procurement
                                                                                              method1
                   implementation of their respective sub-
                   projects
                   (iv) Development of an Operational
                   Manual
                   (v) Training all project implementing
                   institutions/groups in the areas of financial
                   and procurement management of the
                   project
2.       Project a. Receiving sub-project proposals from         Assisting DIGs and CDCs · Local
Coordination       District Interest Groups (DIG) such as        in contracting out              Competitive
Office (PCO)       farmers' groups and Community                 qualified local institutions    Bidding
                   Development Committees (CDCs), and            for carrying out any
                   presentation of such proposals to a District  services that DIGs and      · Local Shopping
                   Technical Group (DTG)2 for evaluation         CDCs may not be able to
                   and approval of sub-project proposals.        undertake without           · Direct Purchase
                                                                 external assistance
                   b. Submission of lists and brief details      Carrying out periodical     · Direct selection
                   including budget estimates of approved        reviews on the records of       of service
                   sub-projects to KARI and advising KARI        DIGs and CDCs to ensure         providers to assist
                   on amounts of approved budget to be           compliance to the laid          District Interest
                   transferred to each sub-project in tranches   down procedures                 Groups (DIGs)
                   c. Receiving periodical implementation        Creating and updating           and Community
                   progress reports including utilization of     databank of prices of           Development
                   each tranche from DIGs and CDCs               commonly used inputs in         Committees
                                                                 the sub-projects to be used     (CDCs)
                                                                 as a guide by the DTG in
                                                                 evaluating proposed sub-
                                                                 project costs
                   d. Preparation and submission of its own      From its annual work
                   annual work plans and budgets to KARI         plans, preparation of
                                                                 annual procurement plans
                                                                 specifying inputs that are
                                                                 locally available and be
                                                                 procured by PCO and
                                                                 procurements that will be
                                                                 appropriate to be
                                                                 undertaken by KARI on
                                                                 its behalf
                   e. Accounting for its budget                  Procurement of goods and
                                                                 services that are available
                                                                 from local market
                   f. Supervision of sub-projects and, with
                   assistance of DTG, provision of technical
                   advice to DIGs and CDCs as needed
3. DIGs and a. Based on the priorities of their needs,           Procuring required inputs   · Local
CDCs               preparation and submission of sub-project     to approved sub-projects        Competitive
                   proposals including cost estimates to PCO     in accordance with the          Bidding
                                                                 procedures of the
                                                                 Operations Manual


2DTG will be constituted from representatives from relevant Government departments, locally based private
institutions, and development partners


                                                                                                                  80

Institution/       Role in project implementation                 Role in procurement           Appropriate
Group                                                                                           procurement
                                                                                                method1
                   b. Preparation and submission of               Seeking assistance of         · Local Shopping
                   periodical implementation progress reports     PCO in contracting local
                   including utilization of funds received        institutions for services
                                                                  that they feel they are
                                                                  beyond their capacity
                   c. Compliance to the Operations Manual in                                    · Direct Purchase
                   the management of sub-project funds
                   d. Establishing and maintenance of                                           · Direct
                   simplified good record keeping system that                                        Contracting
                   is compliant to the procedures to be spelt
                   out in the Operations Manual                                                 · Force Account
4.     Research a. Preparation and submission of annual           From their annual work        · Local
Institutions       work plans including budget estimates to       plans, preparing annual            Competitive
                   KARI                                           procurement plans                  Bidding
                                                                  indicating which
                                                                  requirements that can be      · Local Shopping,
                                                                  procured locally by
                                                                  themselves and those that     · Direct Purchase,
                                                                  only be supplied from
                                                                  outside the country, and      · Direct
                                                                  hence KARI would be           Contracting
                                                                  more suitable to be
                                                                  procure on their behalf
                   b. Submission of periodical                    Establishing and
                   implementation progress and expenditure        maintaining a good record
                   reports to KARI                                keeping system

The Bank's role will be (1) provision of technical advice in setting up appropriate institutional arrangements, and in
the development of an Operational Manual to ensure its consistency with the Bank procurement guidelines; (2)
assessing the procurement capacities of the institutions and assisting in the capacity building of the institutions; and
(3) carrying out its fiduciary responsibilities through continuous prior reviews as needed and periodical post reviews
of procurement documentation at all levels.




                                                                                                                     81

               Annex 8B: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements

                  KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management


External Audit. The Government will appoint a qualified, experienced independent auditor on approved
terms of reference. The external audit will cover both the Grant as well as counterpart funds. The Grant
Agreement will require the submission of audited financial statements to the Bank within six months after
the year-end. The format to be adopted will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.

The auditor will be required to express an opinion on the audited financial statements in compliance with
International Auditing Standards (IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements).

In addition to the audit report, the auditor will be required to prepare a separate management letter giving
observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records,
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in the IDA Agreement

Internal Audit. Taking into account that the CDD setup of the Project, there is need for strong supervision
and quality assurance at all levels. In addition to the day-to-day supervision of accounting functions, the
PCO finance officer will be responsible for internal audit functions at DSG,, VDC and community group
levels.

Supervision. Financial management supervision will be carried out regularly by a World Bank accredited
FMS at least once a year. In addition, the Project will be required to submit quarterly FMRs to IDA. The
FMS will also review quarterly FMRs, and annual audit reports and management letters from the external
auditors.

Accounting System, Accounting Policies and Procedures. Community organizations will maintain
simplified manual accounting systems comprising a SOE analysis and cash book. Accountability
vouchers will also be retained by community organizations which will be required to prepare and submit
monthly returns to the DSG though the VDC. At the DSG, established government accounting systems
will be used in accounting for project funds. The PCO will invest in an accounting and financial
management system. The PCO project management system will be used to control funds and produce
periodic FMRs.

The format of accounting records and reporting to the PCO for consolidation by implementing agencies
will be defined in the Project Financial Procedures Manual.

Budgeting. For the purposes of the Bank credit financing, community implementing agencies will
produce annual procurement and disbursement plans that will be consolidated at the PCU and used to
monitor and plan cash flow needs. Community organization financing plans will be contained in their
project proposals. To facilitate standardization, the Project Financial Procedures Manual will include
templates of budget proposals. The DSG will be responsible for authorizing expenditures for their
respective components in accordance with the agreed budgets.

Financial Monitoring and Reports. The following quarterly FMR inputs will be produced by each
implementing agency, summarized at respective reporting levels and consolidated by the PCO:

        Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Category
        Uses of Funds by Project Component
        Physical Output Monitoring Report


                                                                                                           82

         Procurement Monitoring Reports

Simplified formats of FMR inputs by implementing agencies will be included in the Project
Financial Procedures Manual. The formats will be developed in consultation with each
implementing agency of the Project.

Project Financial Statements. In addition to the monthly bank reconciliation and quarterly
monitoring reports, the Project will produce annual Project Financial Statements for analytical
and audit purposes. These Financial Statements will comprise:

·    A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (showing IDA and counterpart funds as well
     as funds provided by community organizations as provided in funding agreements);
·    A Statement reconciling the balances on all Bank Accounts to the bank balances on the Statement of
     Sources and Uses of Funds;
·    SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by
     the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
·    A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters;
·    Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
     preparing the financial statements; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may be
     deemed appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view."

Monitoring. Project monitoring will take the following forms:
         Community organizations self monitoring mechanisms established in line with CDD funded
         project requirements;
         PCU finance officer's oversight and internal audit of other implementing agencies;
         Annual external audit of the Project finances.

Disbursement Arrangements. IDA credits in Kenya are generally controlled through Special Accounts
managed by PCOs. The Government, through the Ministry of Finance opens a separate Project Account
where counterpart funds are deposited in agreed amounts and managed by the PCO to fulfill counterpart
financing requirements. The Project will adopt similar structure. Funds will be released by the PCO to
DSGs on quarterly basis on evidence of approved community proposals. The PCO will directly meet own
administrative expenses. The DSG will channel funds directly to community bank accounts upon
acknowledgement of evidence of opening of project bank accounts and depositing of required counterpart
contributions. The chart in Appendix 1 illustrates the flow of funds arrangements for general project
management. Specific funds flow procedures will be included in the Project Financial Procedures
Manual.

Training Plan. The PCO finance officer will undergo training in Bank Financial Management and
Disbursements procedures. Implementing agencies' accountants, administrative and procurement staff
will be trained in Financial Management, including internal controls, information systems and computer
applications; and procedures relating to IDA procurement, accounting and reporting. Training must be
substantially completed before Project effectiveness. Ongoing training for implementing agencies'
personnel, mainly based on Financial Procedures Manuals, will be arranged and conducted throughout the
life of the Project by the PCU finance officer.

Risk Assessment

Country Risk Assessment. The results of the latest Kenya Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) dated April, 2001 indicated that "fiduciary risk in public spending is assessed as high. While a



                                                                                                       83

lack of compliance with established financial and procurement regulations have completely rendered
many initiatives aimed at strengthening the control environment ineffective, issues of limited execution,
inadequate monitoring, insufficient capacity and lack of enforcement also need to be resolved."

Government accounts are regularly late and incomplete. Inter-agency reporting is slow and sometimes
difficult to achieve, where hierarchical lines are blurred or are foreign to the day-to-day structures and
management of the institution. Accountability chains are weak, and penalties are extremely light or
nonexistent. A new Government is now in place with a commitment to ensuring compliance with
legislation, strengthening regulatory institutions and fighting corruption.

Project Risks. Specific Project risks here include:

(i)      The large number of parties and transactions involved, the small value and multiplicity of
         contracts, and the scattered locations of the subprojects that render problematical ex-ante controls
         across all individual sub-projects;
(ii)     Accounting difficulties arising from disbursement to the beneficiaries' bank accounts or to
         regional/sub regional accounts is based on progress reports while the supporting documents are
         best kept at the level where the expenses are incurred;
(iii)    Community groups may lack the necessary capacity;
(iv)     Community representatives may not be truly representative of the community (i.e. elite capture of
         institutions and political interference);
(v)      Risks associated with the handling of substantial cash transactions including theft and fraud.
(vi)     Liquidity at the central treasury delaying project implementation through lack of counterpart
         funds and/or inability to access counterpart funds because the project is not "inscribed" in the
         national budget; and
(vii)    Weak financial management and procurement capacity at the PCU delaying implementation;

Summary of country and project risks

                                           Risk Assessment
                                           High      Substan   Mode     Negligi   Comments
                                                     tial      rate     ble
Inherent Risk

1. Corruption                              X                                      *
2. Poor governance                         X                                      *
3. Weak Judiciary                          X                                      *
4. Weak Management capacity                          X                            *
Overall Inherent Risk                      X                                      *

Control Risk
1. Implementing Entities                                       X                  **
2. Funds Flow                                                  X                  **
3. Staffing                                                    X                  **
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures                          X                  **
5. Internal Audit                                              X                  **
6. External Audit                                              X                  **
7. Reporting and Monitoring                          X
8. Information Systems                               X
Overall Control Risk                                           X




                                                                                                          84

*       These will be mitigated by adoption of a comprehensive Financial Procedures Manual, supervision by the
        PCO finance officer, community ownership and direct implementation of planned activities, and inclusion
        of capacity building components in the Project.
**       Considered non significant as long as mitigating factors, as described in the FM Action Plan, are put in
        place.

The project financial management risk is assessed as being moderate provided that the proposed financial
management arrangements are implemented and the following financial management action plan are
satisfactorily addressed.

Financial Management Action Plan

                  Action                                            Due Date            Conditionality
      1           Financial Monitoring Report formats and input     Negotiations        Condition       of
                  by implementing agencies agreed.                                      Negotiations

      2           Recruitment of appropriately qualified and        Negotiations        Condition       of
                  experienced financial officer at PCU.                                 Negotiations

      3           Training for PCU and implementing agencies'       Effectiveness       Condition       of
                  financial managers and accountants on World                           Effectiveness
                  Bank FM and Procurement procedures.

      4           Financial management system installed at the      Effectiveness       Condition       of
                  PCU. This includes:                                                   Effectiveness
                           Procedures Manuals
                           Information System
                           Training

      7           Project accounts opened and initial deposits of   Effectiveness       Condition       of
                  counterpart funds made.                                               Effectiveness

      8           Relevantly qualified external auditor for the     Effectiveness       Condition       of
                  entire project appointed on approved terms of                         Effectiveness
                  reference.

      9           Ability of PCU to prepare FMRs and of             Effectiveness       Condition       of
                  implementing agencies to prepare FMR input.                           Effectiveness




                                                                                                              85

APPENDIX 1


FUNDS FLOW AND REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS


World Bank


Ministry of Finance*


Project Account

Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)*


Special Account

Project Coordination Unit (PCU)*


District Development Committee

Location Development Committee*

Village Development Committee*


Community Organizations

*Oversight entities

Legend



            - Direction of funds flow



    1. -        Direction of fund accountability reporting




                                                              86

                                  Annex 9: Monitoring and Evaluation Plan

                   KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management

Gross project area. The gross project area will include the Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia basins of the Lake
Victoria watershed. This large area, consisting of 19,898 km2, will include specific monitoring focal areas
(FA), for monitoring and evaluation of project and environmental objectives, as well as the remainder of
the area which will not receive the same degree of treatment but in which farmer/community associations
may want to participate.

Net project area. The net project area will consist of nine 10X10 km focal areas (FAs) specifically
designed for monitoring and evaluation. The location of FAs within basins will be stratified by elevation
zones including: Lowlands, 1134-1440 m, Midlands, 1440-1890 m and Highlands                1890 m a.s.l.
Considering the size of each FA in each elevation zone, the FAs will represent 8.5% of the land area of
Nyando, 8.9% of Yala a and 2.3 % of Nzoia. There is strong associations between this zonation and
variables related to population density, land use, soil condition and production ecology (Table 1).

                Table 1. Indicative differences between elevation zones in western Kenya.
                Table reports 95% CI's of mean zonal values.

                Variable                           Lowlands          Midlands        Highlands
                Housing units (no. km-2)1          111 ­ 142        62.3 ­ 85.1      23.3 ­ 33.5
                Ave. tree cover (ha km-2)1         8.47 ­ 10.0      18.7 ­ 22.6      23.0 ­ 30.6
                Tree cover on farms (ha km-2)1     2.58 ­ 3.39      2.30 ­ 3.52      0.72 ­ 1.13
                Cropland (ha km-2)1                14.6 ­ 17.9      11.1 ­ 15.3      8.95 ­ 12.6
                Commercial crops (ha km-2)1        1.12 ­ 1.66      1.43 ­ 2.04      1.51 ­ 2.25
                Ave. annual NDVI2                  0.29 ­ 0.33      0.38 ­ 0.43      0.52 ­ 0.61
                pH (water)3                        6.44 ­ 6.68      5.81 ­ 6.30            ­
                Clay (%)3                          37.1 ­ 42.8      29.2 ­ 36.4            ­
                CEC3                               17.3 ­ 21.6      11.5 ­ 16.8            ­
                SOC (g kg-1)3                      12.6 ­ 15.1      17.8 ­ 23.0      24.8 ­ 27.35
                Steady-state infiltration (cm hr-  1.67 ­ 3.05      5.28 ­ 13.0            ­
                1 4
                 )
                 1 Data from Ecosystems Ltd (1986) regional low-altitude aerial survey interpretation.
                 2 Normalized Difference Vegetation Index data from Africa Data Dissemination Service, GAC
                 decadal time-series (1985 ­ 2002).
                 3 Shepherd & Walsh (2002).
                 4 Thine et al. (in press).
                 5 Spectral library estimate.

The net project area (NPA) will be the area in which improved land management treatments will be
implemented, as selected by farmers, and in which the impacts of these treatments will be monitored. It is
the area over which baseline predictions will be made and monitored, consistent with current international
rules for eligible greenhouse gas sinks

Focal area locations will be selected randomly, nested within basins and elevation zones, but subject to
the following criteria: no part of any FA will impinge on 1990 baseline "forested lands"; FAs will not
impinge on large-scale commercial agricultural areas (e.g. rice irrigation schemes, tea estates, and sugar
cane plantations); FAs will not impinge on government lands such as protected areas and game parks;
FAs will not impinge on large wetlands or urban areas.




                                                                                                          87

Field Sampling Design within Focal Areas and Reference plots

Ground measurements within each focal area will be carried out using a spatially clustered sampling plan.
Fifteen plot clusters, based on QuickBird images (0.7 m resolution), will be selected at spatially stratified,
randomly located grid intersections in each image. Within each cluster, there will be 13 systematically
circular sampling plots, located along 3 radial line transects. All reference locations and plots will be
documented with digital photographs that will contain the precise geographic coordinates of each plot,
and these will be registered on a GIS compatible database to facilitate validation of field observations,
and assist in navigation during revisits.

Data collected at each cluster will include biophysical, site characterization data, above and below
ground biomass, erosion observations, etc. A 5-person team consisting of 1 person for data recording,
GPS data collection, and infiltration measurement, and 2 persons for soil auguring and vegetation
sampling, can comfortably complete 1 cluster in ~1 day depending on accessibility and local terrain
conditions.

Farmer-selected stocking plots. Five additional plots per cluster will be stocked with a variety of
farmer-selected tree species, as well as with a project-selected, indigenous reference trees. These
"stocking plots" will provide information about tree survival, growth performance, and carbon
sequestration traits across differing site conditions, and they will be used as demonstration plots and as
seed orchards for locally operated nurseries. Within each stocking plot, rectangular livestock-proof
enclosures will be established to assess the effects of tree performance vis-à-vis livestock browsing. This
is necessary for monitoring net primary production and net ecosystem production.

Stocking plots will be matched with an equal number of "control plots" located immediately adjacent and
under essentially identical pre-project site conditions3, and on which no project facilitated interventions
will be carried out. Both stocking and control plots will be monitored over the course of the project. This
will provide information on shifts in non-project related baseline measurements.

Table 2. Summary of proposed focal areas (FAs), stocking and control plots that will be established
over the course of the project4.

                   Focal areas                FA's            Clusters     Control   Stocking
                   No. per basin              3               15           5         5
                   Project total              9               135          675       675




The FAs will serve as the primary data collection sites for the project. The location of the FAs and all data
collected there from will be georeferenced and entered into a project GIS data base.

Remote sensing. Fifteen QuickBird satellite images5 will be acquired each FA, and georegistered.
Complete inventories of woody vegetation cover will be completed, using standard image interpretation
and supervised classification techniques. Additionally, the images will be used to identify FAO Land
Cover Classification System (LCCS) classes, housing units (thatch & modern roofs), the presence of soil
conservation structures, roads, water sources including stock tanks, springs, boreholes, lakes and rivers,


3Note that this assumption will be quantified prior to initiating plantings
4To ensure that stocking plots are managed in accordance to project guidelines, we anticipate the necessity of
compensating farmers for incurred production losses and labor inputs. Compensation
5http://www.digitalglobe.com


                                                                                                               88

roads, tracks and physically degraded or barren areas such as rock outcrops, gullies, landslides and
hardset areas.

In addition, ASTER images will be acquired, and new digital elevation models will be constructed. These
will be used to derive watershed boundaries at different levels of stream order, and secondary terrain
information such as slope, specific catchments area and plan and profile curvatures.

Monitoring rural livelihood and poverty. Participatory rural appraisal techniques will be used to
capture socio-economic indicators in each FA. Attention will first be given to villages within the FAs,
although additional villages may be included later. Initially, focus group discussions with local leaders
and community members will be used to introduce the project to the area and to identify the major natural
resource management constraints faced by the community. Focus groups will be asked to rank problems
and possible interventions for these by consensus. Results will be synthesized as reference documents for
each community.

The information collected will include household surveys, agricultural labor profiles, farm size, food
sufficiency, proportion of land for subsistence food crops, number and type of animals, improvements to
farm dwellings, distance to potable water, and willingness to participate in new technologies.

Ecosystem richness and (agro)-biodiversity. Two complimentary approaches for measuring
biodiversity will be used. The first, , called "ecosystem richness", calculated on the basis of the type and
number of farming systems in each FA (FAO LCCS Level 2). The second approach, called
agrobiodiversity, is a rapid field approach to biodiversity assessment, based on using pair-wise plant
checklists of useful, common exotic and indigenous plants. Agrobiodiversity will be assessed in terms of
abundance, density, and relative frequencies of plant species, and the importance of traditional,
indigenous plants.

Measuring impacts of land degradation on Lake Victoria. Monitoring of deforestation, sediment and
nutrient loads to lake Victoria will be achieved by integration of the project with the SIDA funded project
"Improved Land Management in the Lake Victoria Basin". Large scale diagnostics of land degradation
will be done using spectral analyses of soil samples, based on a reference soil spectral library. Areas will
be identified and mapped as erosion sources, sediment deposition basins, and reasonably stable areas.
Results are used to target land management interventions.

Deforestation will be monitored along forest margins using remote sensing. Land degradation and
sediment loads will be monitored in the FAs. Observations will be matched with field data and socio-
economic surveys collected at the monitoring sites. Interpretation will be done for deforestation hot spots,
sources of sediment, and impacts on soil fertility.

Sediment and nutrient loads will be monitored by collecting water samples at 14 day intervals during the
rainy season (less frequently during the dry season) at the headwaters, midway, and the mouth of each
river. Normalized turbidity units (NTU). Will be calculated, and results interpreted for human
consumption, recreation use, and impacts on aquatic life. Water collecting stations will be established to
estimate the contribution to sediment budget not only from project areas, but also non-targeted areas such
as protected areas, wetlands, large-scale commercial agricultural areas and urban areas.

Measuring and monitoring biomass

Above ground biomass. Sampling on each plot will include standing wood, under story, woody debris,
surface litter, and coarse roots. Samples of representative strata, collected from line intersect sampling,
will be harvested, weighed, and analyzed for carbon by dry combustion. Surface biomass from annual


                                                                                                           89

crops will not be included as these are assumed to have minimal impacts on carbon sequestration.
Allometric equations will be used to calculate above ground biomass and carbon. Available allometry
equations from FAO will be tested for accuracy, and as necessary, new, generic and regionally specific
allometric relationships will be developed. These will be specific to west Kenya, and also for other similar
humid, tropical regions in Africa.

Below ground carbon. Carbon sequestration from annual crops (agricultural areas) will be assessed as
change in soil organic matter. Soil organic matter and organic carbon will be analyzed by sampling four
top soils (0-30 cm) and 4 sub soils (30-50 cm) at the center and terminal end of each plot on the radial line
transects. Randomly selected subsets will be analyzed for total carbon, soil organic carbon, nitrogen, and
  13carbon, using element analysis and isotope mass spectrometry. All soil carbon stocks will be
expressed on a soil mass equivalent basis.

Soil condition and erosion classification. Soil carbon, other soil organic constituents, and selected other
soil properties will be measured using Diffuse Reflectance Spectra. This is a rapid. Filed method for soil
analyses, based on correlations against a reference spectral library. These measures are necessary to
estimate the rates of soil organic carbon sequestration, calculate carbon credits on a net-net basis, and to
predict estimates for the various soil management interventions. An index of soil erosion, EDI
(Erosion/Deposition Index), will be used to define and map areas subject to erosion, deposition, and
stable. This index has been found to be strongly related to soil management technologies. Because
underlying rocks have been deeply weathered and have provided thick erodible material, the weathering
profile of underlying rocks will also be considered.

A simple, bio-assey procedure for assessing the fertility status of the soil will be used to assess soil
fertility. Maize seedlings will be grown under controlled greenhouse conditions for 14 days. Root to shoot
ratios will be calculated from harvested biomass. Results will be correlated with land cover conversion,
EDI, as well as soil infiltration capacity.

Determination of soil infiltration capacity will be obtained using two single-ring infiltration cylinders per
plot, as well as tension adsorptions using pressure plates. Soil texture-structure indices will be determined
related to resistance to soil erosion.

Non-CO2 greenhouse gases

Tier 1 Level assessment of green house gasses. The current emissions of non-CO2 greenhouse gases
from the project focal areas will be estimated using the methods described in the IPCC "Revised 1966
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories" and "Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty
Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories". In general, the decisions made at each node of the
IPPC decision trees in the Good Practices Guidance will be presented. Equations for the Tier 1 estimate, a
table that summarizes the calculations, the source of the data to be used for the calculation and a
description of the sources of uncertainty in the estimate will be prepared. Procedures include estimating
CH4 from livestock, manures, and flooded rice, N2O emissions from manures, and direct and indirect
N2O emissions from soils, emissions from filed burning and agricultural residues, and CH4 uptake by
soils will be developed.

Targeted research to refine the IPCC coefficients. Some targeted research will be conducted to
develop coefficients suitable for Tier 2 assessment. Tier 2 accounting will also be used in the monitoring
and evaluation of the project.




                                                                                                            90

Measurement of N2O and NO fluxes. Surface fluxes of N2O and NO will be done using chamber
techniques to capture gaseous emissions in reference plots stratified by erosion phase and infiltration
rates. Samples will be analyzed by gas chromatograph.

A mechanistic model will be developed to explain rates of N cycling, specifically to rates of NH4   +

oxidation by nitrifying bacteria and NO3 reduction by denitrifying bacteria, as well as the amount of N
                                          -

that "leaks" out as gaseous N-oxides. It will be used to assess seasonal and inter-annual variability, N2O,
NO, and CH4. This will help to predict variability of nitrogen oxide emissions, including the effects of
deforestation, land-use change, animal populations, and manure management. This model can easily be
incorporated in ecosystem models such as CENTURY or NASA-CASA.

CH4 consumption by soils. Surface fluxes of CH4 will be measured using chambers techniques similar to
NO and N2O. A conceptual model, based upon the linkage between CO2 in the soil atmosphere and CH4
fluxes, and determined by soil water content and soil texture and by biological processes of O2
consumption, will be used to estimate consumption by soils under improved and traditional land use
practices.

Calculating baselines. Regional baselines will be assessed using mixed-effects models, intended
specifically for analyses of grouped data. Data from the multiple spatial scales, e.g. plot-level
measurements grouped within clusters grouped within FAs will be analyzed to assess baseline conditions
for carbon, other GHGs and carbon balance. Generalizations to higher levels of grouping (e.g. plots /
clusters / FA's / Elevation zones) are straight-forward. Concurrently, a carbon baseline will be calculated
using the CENTURY model. Net-net accounting to estimate the amount of potential carbon credits, will
be applied by estimating the total carbon status minus the atmospheric forcing functions of N2O and CH4.




                                                                                                          91

                            Annex 10: Root Causes of Ecosystem Degradation

    KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management

8.1 Context

The highlands of western Kenya are home to 12 million people, or 40% of the country's population, but
occupy only 15 percent of the land area. These lands have high agricultural potential, yet recent soil
degradation has led to incidences of abject poverty on the order of 30 to 50 percent of rural households
(Central Bureau of Statistics, 1998). Low yields and increasing population levels in western Kenya have
caused more marginal lands to be brought into production and have led to the degradation of remaining
natural forests, resulting in still greater rates of land degradation, habitat destruction, and biodiversity
losses. Current smallholder practices are no longer adequate to meet food needs or maintain the resource
base, a situation that must be reversed if social and environmental disasters are to be averted. Poverty
reduction, environmental quality, and sustainable agriculture are intricately linked in the area. Reversing
the downward trend will require a sustained annual growth rate in agricultural production of 4 percent
(Cleaver and Schreiber, 1994). This target can only be achieved through agricultural intensification. The
intensification must be achieved, however, in a manner which enhances soil fertility. It is only through
integrated ecosystem management (integrating management of production and environmental service
functions) that the dual issues of reversing/preventing ecosystem degradation and reducing rural poverty
will be addressed, and local, national, and global environmental benefits will be achieved.


Traditional land management in western Kenya has relied on fallowing of unproductive fields to restore
fertility and decrease pest problems. The rapid increase of population density makes this practice
untenable and has led to wide scale abandonment of fallowing. High rural population growth6 coupled
with stagnating urban job growth has accelerated the search for new agricultural land, resulting in a high
rate of woodland, forest, and wetland conversion for agricultural use. Locally, there has been little
restriction on encroachment onto steep slopes, wetlands, and forests, despite the existence in some cases
of laws and regulations against such practices.

Intensification of land use is necessary to achieve farming systems that are more sustainable than what is
available today. Farmer management of land is greatly affected by the potential rewards of different
agricultural choices. Increased profitability of agriculture increases the incentives for landowners to
invest in their land, with likely implications that less degradation will occur on their land and they will
have less incentive to leave smallholdings in search of larger ones. Experiences from Central Kenya,
where there is evidence of high productivity, high profits, and good land management, are supportive of
this relationship. The government has introduced reforms to enable markets to function better, but the
agricultural sector is still plagued by poor management of key commodity sectors, and inadequate
maintenance and expansion of infrastructure. Credit is a serious problem for the small farmer. Access to
inputs is hampered by lack of preferred inputs, late delivery, and high costs of inputs. Marketing
constraints are g are visible on the landscape through the absence of higher value crops.


Profitable agricultural opportunities are not a sufficient condition for good land management on farms.
The prevention of degradation, in the absence of traditional techniques of fallowing, requires new
innovations and the sharing of information. On the technical side, soil fertility replenishment, mitigation

6 Rural population birth and growth rates have eased of late, in part due to better education and increased burdens
on civilians to pay for health and education services.


                                                                                                                   92

of land degradation, and enhancing soil organic matter must be accompanied by appropriate conservation
practices, crop diversification and increased planting of trees on farms: in short, good land husbandry.
More sustainable agriculture will in turn provide environmental benefits that accrue at the local, national,
and global levels. Especially since current poor management practices are threatening biodiversity,
increasing sediment loads in key waterways and reducing GHG storage in above and below ground
biomass.
Improved agricultural practices must also increase farm profitability, which is essential if they are to be
adopted by farmers. Recognition of the social and economic needs and expectations of rural populations
must be an integral part of any proposed changes in agricultural practices. On the policy side, the focus
has been on the larger farmer and the assurance of adequate food supplies to urban areas (e.g. packages
centered around expensive seed and fertilizers). Similarly, flows of information are generally poor in
smallholder rural communities. Flows from research and extension to communities are inadequate, as are
flows between households and within households.


8.2 Current Problems at Household Level

At the farm household level, trends of declining agricultural productivity and declining environmental
quality have led to the emergence of poverty and pessimism towards agriculture resulting in reduced
number of feasible options for improving livelihoods. Many households have since disintegrated socially
through individual migration and diversification of livelihood strategies. Consequently, agriculture tends
to become more marginalized leading to the need for intensified efforts to invigorate productivity and
reverse degradation. The government of Kenya has a draft poverty eradication plan, but relies on external
funds to finance much of the plan.
Even if the economic climate for agriculture is improved, certain types of degradation may still occur
because they take place or originate on land that is not farmed (e.g. abandoned land, roadsides, river
banks). Such situations require collective action to solve, whether that be among households within a
village or among different villages. The hilly and sloping topography of Western Kenya contributes to
trans-farm degradation. Moves toward greater decentralization have begun but the legacy of a centrally
controlled style of governance in Kenya generally hinders communities from taking their own initiatives
as authority for initiative is vested in few office holders. Recent efforts (e.g. Lake Victoria project) offer
new platforms for bringing communities together, but these are still nascent.

KARI and the World Agroforestry Center have been working on ecosystem management problems in
western Kenya for the past 10 years. Several agroforestry practices exist that have been proven to be
helpful with overcoming soil fertility, weed, and erosion problems, particularly when these practices are
combined with other conservation measures (e.g. minimum tillage, integrated pest management, soil
fertility recapitalization). Agroforestry provides reasonable options for small-scale farmers to re-establish
the productivity of their land, diversify production, and reverse the downward spiral of poverty and
environmental degradation. The "Pilot Project on Soil Fertility Replenishment and Recapitalization"
initiated in 1997, has begun the work of scaling up the results of research through community-led
activities in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD), local and
international NGO's, and community-based farmer organizations.


The Government has funded this project since its inception. Under this project, 17 pilot villages with
2035 households in two administrative districts (Siaya and Vihiga) are participating. Adoption rates of
agroforestry technologies for soil fertility improvement, including improved fallows and biomass transfer
of Tithonia diversifolia (a green manure system) are on the order of 60-70 percent. Through a
collaborative network of partners, another 10,000 farmers scattered in 16 other districts in western Kenya,
have been reached and impacted. Farmers are now adding value to improved soil fertility by growing high



                                                                                                           93

value crops (vegetables, fruit trees), and those who can afford it are beginning to raise dairy animals.
These technologies have certainly had profound impacts on rural food security, incomes, and their general
welfare, and this is currently being monitored to quantify the nature and magnitude of these impacts.
Constraints to adoption have been lack of information and awareness about technology, adequate supply
of seeds and planting materials, training and follow-up. These are problems that will be addressed over
the course of this project.


In addition to solving these local problems of poverty and natural resource degradation, better farming
practices including agroforestry also provide global environmental benefits. The recent Land-Use, Land-
Use Change, and Forestry Report (2000) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has
identified conversion of degraded croplands into agroforestry as the land-use practice in the tropics with
the largest potential to sequester carbon. Estimates of carbon accumulation rates range from 2 to 9 tones
per hectare per year, depending on the climate and the nature of the agroforestry practice.
Agroforestry can also generate important global benefits in the area of international waters by decreasing
the impacts of poor land management practices on water quality in Lake Victoria. The area that is
proposed for this project is part of the Lake Victoria basin, whose products and services support some 25
million people in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Environmental degradation in the uplands inevitably
affects the lake, resulting in declining fisheries and increased infestation by the exotic aquatic weed, water
hyacinth (Eichhornia crasipes). For example, upland erosion in the Nyando River watershed causes a
sediment plume in the lake that is visible from space. The other rivers (e.g., Yala, Sondu) discharging
into the lake show similar effects of inappropriate land management practices in the watersheds. KARI,
World Agroforestry Center, and partners have been involved in the "Improved Land Management in the
Lake Victoria Basin Project", which concentrates on the Nyando and Sondu-Miriu river basins that empty
into Winam Gulf of Lake Victoria. This project seeks to decrease the significant sediment loads delivered
to Winam Gulf through improved land management practices, restoration of vegetation, and restoration
of the filter function of wetlands.

Furthermore, agroforestry can enhance biodiversity and agrobiodiversity in the agricultural landscape.
Studies conducted by the "Alternatives to Slash and Burn Programme" in the humid tropical areas of
Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin America show increased diversity of flora and fauna with the adoption
of agroforestry practices. Increased heterogeneity on the landscape creates more niches and increases
habitat for different species. Agroforestry also has the potential to contribute to biodiversity in protected
areas by providing wood to rural households and thus decreasing pressure on resources inside preserves.
Finally, agroforestry affects belowground biodiversity (agrobiodiversity). For example shifts in nematode
populations in improved fallow systems and communities appear to be more diverse and more even
(Desaeger et al., 1999). This increased evenness appears to decrease the pathogenicity of nematodes on
subsequent crops.




                                                                                                            94

                                   Annex 11: Biodiversity in Western Kenya

                    KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management

Kenya is home to 25,000 species of animal and 7,000 species of plants. Western Kenya has a variety of
forest, grassland and wetland habitats that include both common and endangered species. Several
ecologically sensitive sites are under threat from agricultural induced encroachment. Although Kenya has
a number of national parks or reserves, including large forest habitats in western Kenya, many smaller
forest fragments, grasslands and wetlands that are home to threatened or endangered species are not
formally protected. Forest fragments, grasslands, wetlands and riparian areas are critical natural habitats
that serve as important refugia for a variety of endemic and threatened species. Wetland areas around
Lake Victoria play an important role as water filters, fish nurseries and migratory and endemic bird
habitats. Traditional groves and other forest fragments are among the last remaining areas outside of
protected forest reserves where a high density of endemic plant species can be found. Western Kenya also
has a number of small riparian zones around the major rivers and their tributaries. Riparian areas often
form unique ecosystems that do not extend beyond the narrow boundaries of the river and are home to
species not found in the general catchment zone. Grass or shrublands are easy targets for conversion to
agricultural lands but are also important ecosystems for small mammal and bird species.

Agriculture related threats to critical biodiversity habitats in western Kenya include clearing or drainage
of land for cultivation, overgrazing, tree removal for local fuelwood use, sedimentation of wetlands, and
destruction of riverbanks through cultivation or removal of tree and plant vegetation. Many of the critical
habitats are in densely populated areas and are under threat from agricultural induced encroachment.

Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management Project

The project will be implemented in three river basins at upstream, mid and downstream intervention
areas. The project will impact biodiversity in three ways: (i) through protection of small but important
critical habitats in the primary project intervention area; (iii) through reduced pressure on secondary
project area; and (iii) through increased biodiversity in the on-farm environment. The primary project area
(nine100 km2 blocks in Nyando, Yala and Nzoia basin) does not include any protected areas and but the
larger catschment area, which can be characterized as the secondary project area, does include important
protected areas where the project is expected to have an indirect effect on biodiversity. Maps of the
project intervention area are found in Annex 12.

The project is expected to impact non farm biodiversity through decreased pressure on natural habitats
and reduction in sedimentation in wetlands. The globally significant biodiversity are determined to be
those species classified as threatened by the World Conservation Union (IUCN). The Table 2 below
presents a list of IUCN red list species7 found in western Kenya. Although a number of threatened species
are found in Kenya (over 75), relatively few have native habitats in the project area. The following
matrix presents western Kenya species categorized as endangered, vulnerable or at low risk for extinction
from agriculturally induced habitat loss or land degradation (including water pollution). Other types of
habitat endangerment such as natural changes in native species dynamics, hunting, or natural disasters are
not considered as they will not be affected by project interventions.



7"The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species provides taxonomic, conservation status and distribution information
on taxa that have been evaluated using the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria. This system is designed to
determine the relative risk of extinction, and the main purpose of the IUCN Red List is to catalogue and highlight
those taxa that are facing a higher risk of global extinction (i.e. those listed as Critically Endangered, Endangered
and Vulnerable)." Http://www.redlist.org

The following birds are commonly found in the Kenya's Lake Victoria Basin: Blue-breasted Bee-easter,
Blue Swallow, Swamp Flycatcher, Greater Swamp-warbler, White-winged Warbler, Papyrus Yellow
Warbler, Carruthers' Cisticola, Papyrus Gonolek, Red-chested Sunbird, Red-headed Quelea, Slender-
billed Weaver, Yellow-backed Weaver, Northern Brown-throated Weaver, Black-throated Seedeater and
the Papyrus Canary.

In addition, a number of species that are native to or have a migratory presence in Western Kenya are on
the IUCN red list as threatened by agricultural based land degradation : Blue Swallow (Vulnerable);
Imperial Eagle (Endangered), Corn Crake (Vulnerable), Turner's Eremomela (Endangered), Lesser
Kestrel (Vulnerable), Chapin's Flycatcher (Vulnerable); Speckle Throated Otter (Vulnerable). Chapin's
Flycatcher and Turner's Eremomela have a particularly small range, and are found primarily in forested
areas . However, forest fragments exist throughout the basin and Turner's Eremomela was initially
identified around the Yala river, one of the project's three river basins. The Blue Swallow is more likely
to be affected by project activities because its habitat is in grassland/shrubland areas that are often used as
agricultural areas. Snake species such as the African python are also common in the river basins.

Plant diversity on farm has also been reduced by low soil fertility, erosion and mono-cropping. Western
Kenya has over two hundred endemic plant species . The project activities will contribute to biodiversity
conservation through increased agro-biodiversity (on farm) as well as biodiversity enhancement in the
agricultural landscape (off farm). Soil fertility replenishment will enhance biodiversity by increasing
heterogeneity in the landscape leading to increased above and below ground biodiversity. Project
activities such as tree fallows and other agroforestry systems will also contribute to satisfying the demand
for fuel wood, leading to less encroachment on forests and woodlands. Studies conducted by ICRAF's
Alternatives to Slash and Burn Programme in the humid tropical areas of Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin
America show increased diversity of flora and fauna with the adoption of agroforestry practices.
Increased heterogeneity on the landscape creates more niches and increases habitat for different species.
Agroforestry also has the potential to contribute to biodiversity in protected areas by providing wood to
rural households and thus decreasing pressure on resources inside preserves. It is recognized that this
benefit is context specific, but there are situations in the proposed project area where this may apply.
Finally, agroforestry affects below ground biodiversity (agrobiodiversity) in ways are only beginning to
be understood. For example shifts in nematode populations in improved fallow systems and communities
appear to be more diverse and more even (Desaeger et al., 1999). This increased evenness appears to
decrease the pathogenicity of nematodes on subsequent crops. Other areas of below ground biodiversity
still need to be explored.

Project Intervention Area

The project will be implemented in three river basins at upstream, mid and downstream intervention
areas. Each of the nine project intervention areas are adjacent to or include a number of critical habitats.
Some are formally recognized as important bird areas and wetlands, others are informal sites that are local
forests fragments or grasslands. Primary project intervention sites have been tentatively identified and
include the following ecologically sensitive sites:

Nzoia Catchment
·    Highland area: Forested areas, project intervention site includes with tributary to Nzoia river
·    Midland area around town of Lugari: Former site of Lugari Forest Preserve (de-gazetted), forest
     fragments still present around area. Project intervention site includes two tributaries to Nzoia river.
·    Downstream area: Site is east of Port Victoria, 30 km from Yala swamp and small lakes such as Lake
     Kanyaboli and Lake Sare

Nyando Catchment


                                                                                                             96

·   Highland area: Site is near Nandi Hills. Forest fragments still in existence, site also includes
    Ainabngetuny tributary
·   Midland/lowland area: Site includes Nyando river and associated riparian zone
·   Lowland area: East of Paponditi town, east of Kusa swamp. Site includes Awach tributary

Yala Catchment
·   Highland areas: Site is east of Kapsabet town, includes tributaries to Yala river,
·   Midland area: Forest fragments, west of former Kaimosi forest preserve (de-gazetted), project
    intervention sites include tributaries to Yala river
·   Lowland areas: South of town of Siaya, no formal wetland areas, but is adjacent to isolated wetland
    remnants and seasonally flooded areas

Lack of data on smaller critical habitats prevents a full listing of biodiversity in the area but an overview
of biodiversity in the project area is included in Table 1 below. Community biodiversity surveys will be
conducted as part of the project's community NRM planning activities and baselines data collected on
species in the project intervention areas.




                                                                                                            97

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               larut rof                                                                                                                                                on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rof

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          seas                                                                                                            tn                                                                            tn                                                                                                           ,tn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            me                                                                            me                                                                                                            me                                                  larut rof                                                                                                 larut rof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ralut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cul
                                                                                                                                                           edcu                                                                                culri                                                               nage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ses,                                           dry                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oteudnoi                                                                                                                         culri                                                      nage                            ses,           culri                                                             nage                      ses,                                                                           ced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                agri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ag
                                                                    ats                                                                                        ind                                                                                                                                                     drai,                                                                                     theni                                              ,ging                                                     chaor                        ,ging                                            chaor                                                                                                         chao                                                   ag                                                        drai,                                ngit       ag                                                                                                              ngit                                                     duin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      drai

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   enc                                                                           enc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                es                                                                      drai,                                              es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ats                                                                                                                                                          ,


                                                                       Thre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              log lar log lar
                                                                                                                                                                  ltural                                                       ntemh on,iatntem ntemhoac purporallturicu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           adatrg renclar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dekn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tree ltu tree ltu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ltu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lturally                                                                                                                                                                                        Thre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rgrazing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on,iatntem ntemhoac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cal                                                                                    cal                                                                                                                                                              cui                                               on,iatntem ntemhoac purporallturicu vrharus on,iatntem ntemhoac purporallturicu vrharus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ntemh


                                                                           Major                                                                                        Agricu encroac Sedi encr ag ove                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lo a Lo a R a                                             cuirg                                                                         cuirg                              verbai rg                                                                                                                   Sedi encr ag papy Sedi encr ag papy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Agricu encroac                                                                                                                                                                              Major                                                                                       Sedi encr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sur                                                                                                                 icm                                                            ory

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   , p-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             species                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cher,at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Egret                                                                                                       ugefre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Papy                                                             p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         es,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        end,n                                                          gratim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Papy cy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            eatrG                                                           ciclids,a                                                                                         ariaslC,                                                                                                                                                                                                                 eciesps                                                                                                                     naryaC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  full
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Swam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p-warbler;                                                                                         w,ol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r,elb                                                               Victori                                specieni                                                  icusp                                                                                                                                                                                                                   full                                                                  edni                                                 rus                                                                                                        s:driB amwS,ry                                                                                                       thoyp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s;ur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       birds,                edni                                                                                                                                                                                  k,elonoG                                                           waS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ke                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Greater                                                                                                       naa                           Swam                                                                                         Swal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              La                                    om                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rme                                                 Papy                                                                                                        py C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rme                                                                                                                                                                                       sur ,
                                                                                                                                                                        edin                                                                                          War                                                                                                             hrco                                                 aethios                          edin                                                                                   edin                                                                                           species,                                                                 det                                                                                                                                                          pasu                                                         rus                                                      African:                                                           uelB                                                                                       det                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  narya
                                                                                Species                                                                                                                                                                                  wol                                                                    ane,rC                                                                                            teru cisu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 speciesein                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Papy C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          bird ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       py                          Greater
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pa                                                          fishd                                                                                                                          gratoryim beot                                                                                              Species

                                                                                       antt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Flycatcher,p                                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ochrom                                                                                                                              ryont                                                                                    antt

ea                                                                                                                                                                          termedeb                                                                                        Yelsur                                                                                                        Haplci pootrPr                                                   mbass deb            eterm                                                                                  etermdeb                                                                                                                                                                 ryont                                           k,elonoGsur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          gratoryi                                                                                                                                                                                         ler,b                            peryC:s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ant                                                      k,eoln                                                                                                                   d:na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tile

  Ar                                                                                       Impor                                                                                    To                                                                                            Papy Baillon's endem fo mo To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To                                                                                                 M i                                                                nve                                                   Papy Swam war                                                                                              Pl Go Flycatcher, Rep Hapl Grassl species Forests: i                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nve                                                                                     Impor

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s,t
                                                                                                type                                                                                  ed
    ervention                                                                                       tem                                                                                                                        ntemgarf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     enm                                                                                                                                                                                  type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s                                                                                                                                                                                                  ed                                                    ntemgarf                              ed                                      ntemgarf                                                 neoz                                                                                                                     s                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       agfr                                                           s                           Area                                                                                       tem                                                                           s

             Int                                                                                                                                                                        altitu                                                                                     ndal                                                                                                                                                                                                altitu                                                                                      altitu                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ndal                                                                                                       ndal                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dna                               land                                                                                                                                                                                                 ndal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rest                                                                          rest                                                   parii                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rest                                                            ub
                                                                                                       Ecosys                                                                                 Mid fo Wet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mid fo Mid fo R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Wet                                                                                                        Wet                                                                                                                                                                                         Fo grass sr                                                                            Project                                                                                   Ecosys                                                                          Wet

                Project
                                                                                                                                   nts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yala,                                                                                                                                                                                                        nts
                                                                                                                                                                                              o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              do                                                                                                                    do                                                                                                         do                                                                                                                                                                                                                do                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         do
                       Primary                                                                                                        tchme                                                                                                                                            a                                                                                                                                                                                                     ai                                                                                                                                                                                                an                                                                                                                    an                                                                                                         an                                                                                                                                                                                                                an                                                                 Secondary                                                                                                         tchme                                                 an

                              in                                                                             River                         Ca                                                  Nyand                                                                                    Yal                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nzo                                                                                       Yala                                                                                                    Ny                                                                                                                    Ny                                                                                                         Ny                                                                                                                                                                                        Nzoia, Ny                                                                                                                                                                         River                         Ca                                                 Ny
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the

                                                                                                                  n                          )
                                                                                                                                                                                                    um
                                                                                                                   catio                                                                                                                                                                   asiuBa/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u                                                                                                          u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n                          )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ari                                                                                                                                                                                              ral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sum                                                                                                        sum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            catio                                                                         sum
                                biodiversity                                                                            Lo                    (district                                               Kisu                                                                                          Si                                                                                                                                                                                               Lug                                                                                                                                                                                              Seve                                                                                                                   Ki                                                                                                         Ki                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lo                    (district                                             Ki
                                            of

                                                                                                                          e                            )                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        )                                              0
                                              areas                                                                        Siz                          (ha                                                <1                                                                                          008,                                                                                                                                                                                             061,2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             91                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50                                                                                                         001,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Biodiversity                                                                        Siz                          (ha                                            801,

                                                   rtanto                                                                                                                                                    Bird                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rtanto

                                                         Imp                                                                                                                                                     on                                                                                        andp                                       iol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,                                                                                                                       p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ab                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rest                                                                                                                                                         h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Imp
                                                            1:                                                                                                                                                     Ka r                    y                                                                   amws                                        ny                                                                                                                                                rest                                                                                  fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fo                                                                                                                                                                                        nyu andoyN                                                                                                                                                                                                                          p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ka                                                                                                                                                                                        ents                                          sio                             ents                                                                  get
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              bn                                        o,                                                                         amwS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gari gm                                                                                                               gm                                                                     na                                        og Awacariestu agn                                                                                                                                                                    amwS                                                                                                                                                                        fugiare                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          amwSatug
                                                              Table                                                           Area                                                                                 West Sanctua Yala Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lu fra Kaim fra Ai Mb and trib Du                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kusa                                                                                                                                                                           Local                                                                                                                       Table                                                           Area                                                                                  Ko

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ralut                                                rof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a a                                                                                                                   r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 each each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cul                                                                                                               andgn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             reeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fo                                                                                                                                is                                                                             at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         parts                                                                        have                                                                                                                                                                of as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tial                                                              which                                                                                                                                          rsu                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in i                                                                                n
                                                                   ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                          .s0991                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ecies
ses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         agri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                             cen                                                                     ydl


   purpo                                                                adrged                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  drai                    ses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ten
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                poachi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 declines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,                                                                                                                              ng                                                        duin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  occr                                                                             deyor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10                                                                                         tion                                                                                                                                                                            earlye                                                       ideve                                                                   rapi po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d                                                    is                                                                                                                              speth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c.46% c.25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Russia th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                                   to
        ral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          grazi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             anth                                                                                         persecu                                                                  tic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rreu                                                                                                                rongholdsts                                                                                                                                      ngeol destbe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        these
           ltu                                                                ltural                                                                                              galelIl,ntemh
                                                                                                                                                                                               oac                                                              ing
              ricu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 gg                                                                                                                                           on,iatntem ntemhoac purporallturicu                                                                                   nt,emh                                                                                                                     lturally                                                     ntemh                                                                                                                                                                                        reom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       int                                                         range                                                                                                                     there                                                                    n                                                         reason                                                                                                                                                        ot                                                                                                                                                                         nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                  Asia                                                                                                     gh                                                                                                                               occ                                                    n,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pe                                                                                                                                                                                      ishtr                                                                 noti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d                                                                                                                                                                   valent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                  ag                                                                Agricu                                                                                                        Encr lo                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sedi encr ag                                                                                                                Encroac livestock                                                                                                            Agricu encroac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        yb                                                                                             rest                                                                  for                                                                                                    outh                                                                                                                                ro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              uesni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       species'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            equival
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Eu atisatio                                                                                                          Europea                                                             Fo                                                                      d,e                                                                                                                                                                    quie,                                                                                                                                                        range.

                    fish                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sur                                                                        fish                                                                                                           s,r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     foe                                                                                                                                                                          was                                                             the                                                               ner                                                                                                                                                                                        re.ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ian

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Papy cy                                           cher,at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           estimates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Duike                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                anths                                                                                                                                                                            privd                                                                                                                                         fu                                                                  entmg                                                                          conttat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               As
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  across                                                            west                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ropeuE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lan                                                                  eastern                                                                                                                                      fra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Africa,h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           habi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  its
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ela,                                                                                               ela,                                                                                                                                                                   Fl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ela,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            outS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                        p-warbler,                                                        Leopard,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      but                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rest
                                                     determined                                                                                                                                       om                                                                                                 om                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        earneth                                                                                                                                                         fo                                                                               western                                                                                   ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             determined                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             species'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         w,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     population                                                                                                                                                                 earl                                                           esnil wi
                                                               be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dec                                                                                                                                                                                             inn                                                                 severel sti                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Flycatcher                                   k,elonoG                                                                    p-warbler,                                       om                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 clinedsah tivanretuamfo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             eroumun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              re                                                                                                                                                                             Follo                                                                          eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       srtap
                                  Swam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pmawS                                                               Erem                                                            Flycatcher,
                                                                 to                                                                                                                                     Erem                                                         Flycatcher                            Erem                                                                                                                                                                                          Swam            to                                                                                                                      e,kan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    w om                                                                                                                                                                 unc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ni
                                                                                                  antelope,                                                                                                 r's n r's n ur                                                     's                                                                                               's s ,                                                                                                                                                                r's n S                                                                's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nce                                                                                                                                                                        grounds

                                                                                                                                                                 ffalo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             narya                                                                                                                                                              ndil                 Swalloe                                                                       activity                                                                                                                                                                   latioupoplalms                                                                                   ssloethfo                                                                            ne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cal                                                                                                                               ni ctio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 orist                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Si

                                      Greater species Roan Bu Turne Chapi Turne Chapi Papy C Greater species Turne Chapi B Blu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             redun                                                                  sm                                                                                                                 d.re                                                  declines                                                                                  ng                                                                    yblsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  es'                                                                                                         .ai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hi                                           actices.rp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               change                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ons.it                           nge                                                                                                                                           nteri                                                                    pos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d                                                b                                                                                                                                                                                                                 eci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rest                                                                                           rest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hy                                                                                                   ru                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sp                                                                                      resua                                                                          Europe                                                                                             erabidsn                                                        aresnogier                                                           d.eti                                                                                                                                                                                      latio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ltural                                                                                                                                                                                                    verysi                                                                                    caol                                                                                 rapid                                                                                    wi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Enda                                                                                                                                              its

                                                                                                           land                                                                                             forest,                                                                  foe                       forest,                                                              foe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 busd                                              floode                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eseht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as                                                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              to ni ienil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            land-use i le.b                                                   opupd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ne                       agricultural                                                                                                                                                                             isth                                                                                                   Asniy                                                                                                                                                                    coeb                                                                                                                              lims                                                  agricu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an,17
                                                                                                               oodw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eastern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   calip                                                                                              calip                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                  rapa                                                            es nwonk                                                                                                                                                                      undergone                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1950,                                                                   e
                                                                                                                   en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 calip ansy                                                                                                                                                                                                             m                                                           noitac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fro                                                                                                                                                                             atth arilymirp                                                                                          ablbo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           prd                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ecies                                                              ndser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                          specisiht                                                                               wfe treatedis                                                                                  has
                                                                                                                     op,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sp t dec                                                                                                                                                                               anges                                                                                                                                   lt
                                                                                                                                                                      tse d lan d lan                                   troe                                                            antnom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              to                           troe                                                        antnom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                       troed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vulnerad                                                   of sti                                                                                                         it                                                                                                                                                    since                                                               ncsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s                                                                                                                                                                                                         gras,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tedam ,s                                                                                                                                                                        surveys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                widespread
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              esti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ratione                  oper                                                                                                                                                               isth                                                               noiat gnuini                                                                                                             chfo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lt                                                          ilar                                                                 resudl                                                           ngera                                                                            e                               ed,d                                                            eciesps                                                                                  years                                                              earsy
                                                                                                                        asslandrG                                     ickthd                                                altitu-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dsna                          threat                                                               list
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sitio                          altitu-                                                         sitio                        ndal                                                                                                                           altitu-                                                                        restofn
                                                                                                                                                                            an Mid tran Mid tran Wet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mid rai glades S grassl                                                                                                yllanosae                                        veriridna                                                                                            justifi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Eu                                                                                                                                                                 own                                                            pul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Red                                                                                                     is ne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  It g of Recent sh Po cont resu sim wou considere The som degra This ten t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       under
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          d

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kenya                                                                                                                                                                 ered                                                                                                                                                                               leb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ereg                                                                                                                                                                              leb

                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                  chuG                                                                                             ai                                                                                                 ai                                                                                        a                                                                                                                                 ai

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nzo                                                                                                Nzo                                                                                      Nzoi                                                                                                                               Nzo                                                                                                                           aiozN                                                                                                                                                      CN                        gory                                                                           nga                                                                                                                                                                               eran                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dan                                                                                                                                                                              eran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IU                          cate                                                                          End                                                                                                                                                                                Vul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   En                                                                                                                                                                                Vul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 western                                                                                                                                                                    ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in                                                                                                                                                                   Asia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i                                                                                                  i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Asia,,e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e
                                                                                                                                      a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Yala oC,)                                                          ng                                                                                                              East


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ver                                                                                                                ddli
                                                                                                                                       Sub                                                                                               Nand                                                                                               Nand                                                                                     asiuB                                                                                                                             agema                                                                                                                                                                                                                              found                                                  egn                                                                                                             pe,o                                                                                                                                                                                 rop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kak                                                                                                                        Busia                                                                                                                                                        Ra                                                                                                               Eur Africa                                                                                                                                                                          Eu Africa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kenya ri                                                                                              Europe, M Africa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               species                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                                                                                                          ,00021                                                                                             ,00081                                                                                             ,50001                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40                                                                                                                                  ,30081                                                                                                                       250                                                                                                       list                                            no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        m                      e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Crak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               elamo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     perial                                                                                                                                                                                   rn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r'sen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Red
                                                                                                                                                lan                                                                                                rest                                                                                               rest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Com                    Nam                                                                                        Im Eagle                                                                                                                                                                             Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tur Erem                                                                                         Lesser Kestrel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Foid                                                                                               Foi                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rest                                                                                                                      dsn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sw
                                                                                                                                                   Natioam                                                                                                 Nanht                                                                                             Nand                                                                                 rtoPo                                                                                                                                  Foagema                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IUCN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Grassla                                                                                                        3:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e                                                                                       ila                                                                                                                                                                                    crex                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   elamo                                                                    eri                                                                                                            anni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rn
                                                                                                                                                          Ru Park Sou                                                                                                                                                                                            North                                                                                 Si                                                                                                                                       Kak                                                                                                                      Busia                                                                                                     Table                                    Scientific              Nam Birds                                                                                 Aqu heliaca                                                                                                                                                                             Crex                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Erem tu                                                                                     Falco naum

yb                                                                            atth
  ed                                                                                                                                                                                     tatbi                                                                           di                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rare                                                                        its                                                                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ers,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10

                                                                                                                                                                                              ha                                                                           rapa                             unless                                                                                                                                                                             atth
    eclindevah                                                                    icted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ciallye manin
                                                                                       edrp                                                                                                     nda to                                                                                                            retu                                                                                              eb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to lpmi                                                                      y                                                                                                           esp

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  llis, ibr 'sig                                                                         ity)d                                                                                feed'th                                                          onotypicm

                                                                                           is
              to                                                                             It                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        are

                ely b                                                                          le.                                                                                              grasslstifo                                                                    lede                                   fueth                                                                                           arsep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ther
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hav ine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                        it h                                                                   itatba le.b                                                                                                   licoucam                                                                                    (tus                                                                                      eyth                                                                unde

                lik
                   isn                                                                            eran
                                                                                                      Vul                                                                                                  noiatd                                                                                                          tinu                                                                                                                                                                     its                                                                                                                                                                                                           adlo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ferredin conto                                                                                                                          ecies,                                                                                                            Vulnera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      As
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      silt                                                                                                                                                      treated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sp                                                                  on d

                      latio                                                                              as                                                                                                      gra is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                res                                                                                                                L.foeg                                                                                                                                                                              ities.                                                                   es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 de is                                                                                                                                                                                                               isht                                                                                                             eredi                                                                     ran
                           opup                                                                                                                                                                                  d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  an                                                                 Th                                        ected                                                                                                     fo                                                                                                                onsc                                                                                                                                                           creased                                                                                   activ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             som
                               taltoeht                                                                    speciesethse                                                                                             noi                                                                                                             proj                                                                                                   s                                                              pressu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tio                                                                                                                                                                                   ral

                                                                                                                                          years.                                                                                                                                       ites.s is                                                                                                                                                                                                                es                                                                                                                 nal ineth                                                                                                                                                                                ltu                                                                 is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to

                                       s,
                                         oni alifiqu                                                                                                                                                                   ruct niertniw                                                   g                                                                                                                                                    statu tenin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               therefore                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ricu                                                                 eci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dest                                                                                                             which,n                                                                                                                                                                   eth                                                   is                                                                                                                                                         tible                                                                                           ag ps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by                                                                                                                                                                                                               current                                                                  d                                                    It.                                                         stribuideth
                                         reg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            its                                                    latio                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ing                                                                 ine                                                                                    scep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            su                                                                                                                                                         ishT
                                            all                                                                        ich                                                                                                   ened                                                          d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                               insn

                                                   latio                                                                  wh oe atreht ansnd pallsmy
                                                                                                                                                10txenehtrev                                                                                                                                                                                        opu                                                                                            ethtu                                                              an,eg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ran                                                  eclind                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             creasedin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eclind                                                                                      es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n.e                                                                              abo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eci                                                                                       from                                                           success.
                                                                                                                          years,                            tinu si                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ed

                                                                                                                                                            con es                                                                                                                          ourg                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ted                                                     isn                                                                                                                                                            sp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   g

                                                        opupfoe                                                                 ten                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          isn                                                                                                                                                 enm                                                     latio                                                              serv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ob                                                                                     isht                                                                                                                                                        ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ltin
                                                                                                                                   in will                                                                                       speci                                                          ngi                                                                                                                                                        nownk                                                                                                                              pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       alread                                                                                                   is                                                                  frag po                                                                                                                       an                                                                                       as                                                                                                                                                        hunti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     resu
                                                                                                                                   %02 es                                                                                             ory b                                                        eedr                                                      its                action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rse                                                              their
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  little                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ictis.
                                                               tativ                                                               anth                     eclind                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gratim                                                           its
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ht                                                                          tioa                                                                              h                                                           itst allsm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ou                                                          ly                                                                  enebsah                                                                                  Africa,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    htu                                                                                     Riv                                                                               ydrH
                                                                                                                                       reo
                                                                    represen m si Thi o redu co Alth th p                                                         ilarm s bon                                                                                                                                                                                     ction                                                                                                  oug                                                          ugh                                                         ab                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           affects s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nserv                                                                                                                                          ro obr                                                                                                                            ere So
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Th in African this g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nue


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            elb                                                                                                                                                                                                                             el                                                                                                                                                                                             le

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eran                                                                                                                                                                                                                           erabnl                                                                                                                                                                                         erabnl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Risk                       Risk

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vul                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vu                                                                                                                                                                                             Vu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Low                        Low
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     hut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rn                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                So
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        heut                                                                                                                                   a,                                                                                                                                          da,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ngo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ralt
                                                                                                                                                                       Eastern, So Africa                                                                                                                                                                                                        Keny Rwand Uga Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Africa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Keny Eastern Africa Cen Africa

                                                                                                                                                                       w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ttero
                                                                                                                                                                        Swalloe                                                                                                                                                                                                                  'sni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       peole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           kle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ated                                                                                                                                                                                 ant                                                              erk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ro                                                                                                                                                                                  ni
                                                                                                                                                                               Blu                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ch Flycatcher                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Spec th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Su                         Black Fronte Dui


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  llis                                                                                                                                                                                  su                       suhpo
                                                                                                                                                                                  ndo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lico                                                                                                                                                                                rag
                                                                                                                                                                                     ruiH                                                                   Astrocaerulea                                                                                                                              Muscicapa l                                                                       nde                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            schatuso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mammals                                                                               Lutra macu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Neot m                   phaleC            nsorfirgni

                                               Annex 12: Maps8

                   KENYA: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management

Project area:




8All maps in this section were created by Kenya Agricultural Research Institute unless otherwise noted

Kenya's Lake Victoria Catchments




                                    102

Lake Victoria Basin Ecological Zones with Project Area Highlighted




                                                                      103

Nyando Basin with Project Intervention Sites Highlighted




                                         NYANDORIVERBASIN

                             Y
                             #Kaptumo


                                                    Y#Mtetei
        N
                          Y#Chemase
                                           Y
                                           # Songhor

                                  Y
                                  #Chemilil

                                        Y
                                        #Muhoroni                            Londiani
                                                                               Y
                                                                               #
             Y
             #Ahero                                           Kipkelion
                                                                  Y
                                                                  #
                                                         Y
                                                         #
                                                       Fort Tenan          Y Kedowa
                                                                            #




                                                                Y
                                                                #
                                                  Ainamoi        Chepsoen
               Y
               #                                 Y
                                                 #
         Paponditi
                               Sosiot                                    Road
                                       Y
                                       #                               Y
                                                                       # Town
                       Sondu                                             Intervention area
                      Y
                      #                                              Elevation
                                                                         1134-1440Lowland
                                                                         1440-1890Midland
                                                                         >1890 Highland




                                                                                        104

Yala Catchment with Intervention Sites Highlighted




                            Yala River Basin




                                                                   Y
                                                                   #
                                                                   Yala

                                                     Kapsabet
                                          Kapkangari     Y
                                                         #   Y
                                                             #    Y
                                                                  #
                                                                  Lessos
                                                   Y
                                                   #       Arwos
                             Chavakali Sabatia                           Y
                                                                         #
                           Yala        Y
                                       #  Y
                                          #   Y
                                              #Kaimosi                 Nabkoi
             Siaya          Y
                            #

             Y
             #                         Y
                                       #
                        LuandaY
                              #         Majengo



                                                       Road
                                                       River

        6 0 6 12 Kilometers                            Town
                                                      Y
                                                      #

                                       N               Yala River Basin

                                                       Intervention area




                                                                           105

Nzoia River Basin with project intervention areas highlighted




            NZOIARIVERBASIN


                                                                  Cheborowa
                                                                        #


                                                         # Moi'sBridge
                                  Kimilili
                           Chwele    #

                              #                           Soy              Iten
                                                           #                  #
                                             #Lugari

             N                                                     Chepkoilel
                                                                       #




                          ShiandaButsotso
                                    #                         Chepterit
                              #               Vihiga        #
            Sega                                #

               #
                             #Lunza                                BurntForest
                                                                          #
    PortVictoria
    #                                               River
                                                  # Town
                  Ng'iya                            Road
                     #                              Nzoiariverbasin
               8 0 8 16 Kilometers                  Interventionarea




                                                                                   106

Nyando Catchment Carbon Use9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ORGANIC CARBON DISTRIBUTION MAP IN THE RIVER NYANDO CATCHMENT AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                         #Kaitet Factory



                                                                                                                                                                               #Kipkenyo mkt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # Nandi Hills


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #Ketparak Farm


                                                                                                                                                                        #Ibanja                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kipkurere Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                      #Aldai sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kingware sch                                                                                                                                    Old Sikh                      Highlands  #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                  #Kaptumo mkt                                                                                                 Siret sche Stores                                                                              #                    No.1 Sawmills
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Soiyet#                                                                       #                                                                          Sawmill                                                                  TimboroaTimsales              #Timboroa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kabarchoge                                                                                                                                                              #

                                                                                                                                Chepkongony sch
                                                                                                                                         #                                                                                                                                                        Kipingai Farm
                                                                                                                                                         #Kiplitito sch                       Savani Tea Factory
                                                                                                                                                                                                #                                               # Matema                  Stores                  Mission #
                                                                                                                                                                                  #Kamngorian mkt

                                                                                                                                                                                                    # Labour Lines           #
                                                                                                                                                                      #Kaburo sch                                             Kapsimutwo Farm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kibleso
                                                                                                                                                      #Koyo mkt

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.Kipkurerei                                                                          #




                                                                                                                                         #Ndurio mkt
                                                                                                                                                                      #Kapsaos mkt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N.D.C Camp            Factory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # Kipsesin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #Timboroa TV Trans. Sta

                                                                                                                                #Kapkolei                                                 iroa                                                 Ngeron Dairy          #




                                                                                                                                   Disp
                                                                                                                                                                                    K.pich


                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                    Kapkwuong mkt            #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mberere    #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           labour lines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # Mberere                            Ainobngetuny


                                                                                                                                                                                                            #Chemelil Mission                                                                         Store #                                                  # Tinderet Factory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Twin Bridge                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sorgut Forest
                           N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mberere Estate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sawmill# Station   #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Camp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #Kamarero Guest House

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Songhor Shops                        #Songhor Vet. Office                                                                                                                            Malaget                                                                                    Kibleso
                                                                                                                                                            Chepswerta mkt                                                                                               #                       # Kipsitoi                                                                                                                                  #                                                                                   Sawmill
                                                                                                                                                                #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                                                       #Labour Lines       R. Mbogo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Labour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Godabuoro Shops
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R.Mbogo                                                                                                                                                                  Camp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #
                                                                                                                                            Kibigori
                                                                                                                                                   #                                                                                              Achego
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shop  #


                                                                                                                                                                     # Nyakunguru sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Stores#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Liloch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tamu Disp                   # Mompwo Farm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #
                                                                                                                                                    R. Nyando                                    CHEMELIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #Store
                                                                                                                                                                                                  #
                                                                                                                                                                          R. Osengeteti                                        #Godabuoro                                                           #Meswa Farm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           # Stores

                                                                                                                                                                                                     #Ngeny sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sawmill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Makindu mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #Labour LinesSta                                                                                                               #


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #


                                                                 #Kigoche Sch                                                                                                                                                                                   orni        Jeberen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #Coffee Res. Sta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #Kaula sch
                                                                                                                                                # Nyang'oma Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                               # Migere sch                                               R.Mu# MUHORONI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ho                                                                                                                                     #Factory                                                                                        Githee #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #                                                                                         Shop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # Mission            Songonyet Coffee Est                                                                   #
                                                                                   R. Nyando          Nyalenda sch                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                          Nyatao sch
                                                                                                        #                                                                                                                            Sugar Factory                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # Landhies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #      Landhies

                                                                                                                                                                    #Awasi mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LONDIANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Nakuru

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Angoro mkt       #Kileges mkt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Workshops
                                                                   #
                                      To Kisumu         AHERO       Onjiko sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                         #                                                                                                                                                                                         R.Nyando
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gomwet Pol P
                                                                                                                                                                                                            #            R.                                                                Sugar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #KORU
                                                                                                                                  Orem Sch                                                                                 Chebirir   #Thesalia Mission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Factoryteti
                                                                                                                                  #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Soil Conservation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                         R. Nyaidho                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Service
                                                                                                                                                             #Wang'anga Sch                                                                                                                      Lenge                                                                                                                            #



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #Chepsiria
                                                                                                                                                                                              R. Kaplelach                             Chemutum                                              R.                                                                                                                                   LUMBWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #                                                                                                            FORT TERNAN                                                                                     R.Nyando
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  # Koiyabei sch               #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mission Hosp                                     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       # Koitabrot mkt                                                                          MoW Camp#
                                                   #Kangimba sch
                                                                                             # Luora Ayweyo Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Siret Farm #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #Kedowa sch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tunnel Station
                                                       #Apondo sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #

                                                                        Awach                                                                                                                                                        #Kipsitet Chief's Office
                                                                                #
                                                                              Kano
                                                                                 Awach Mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mombwa Farm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #


                                                                                                                 #
                                 Ambaka sch                                    #
                                #                                               Rae Sch   (Reresik)                        Yogo Sch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #Senetwet sch                                                                                                                                    (Kipchorion)                                                                                   Kedowa


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chepseon farm
                                                                                                                                   #Katolo Sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R.Nyando         Tugunon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #                                #


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chepseon sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kenegut                                                   #Migere sch
                                                    Veterinary office                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tugenon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sc H/C#                                                                                             R.                                                                                                                                                              #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #Kaboloin sch                                                                                                                                  Wool shed
                                                               #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wenwa sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Singoronik                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #                                                                                       Buchenge sch
                                                                                                         # Wenwa sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sch                                                                                        #                           Chepsir Disp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #
     AIR
        OTC          R.Nyando                                                                                  Kiboko shops               R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        #Kedowa sawmills

                                                                                                                                #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kapkiam shops                                                                                          Kerisoi forest station
                                                                                   #Lisana sch                                   Cherwa sch Awach                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kericho                                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chepkonik sch                                    Ketitui sch                                                                                                     To
           VI                                                             R. Asawo                     #Kanyamlori                         #                                                                                                              #
                                                                                                                                                #          #Kapsarok sch                                                                                                                                                                                       ##Chebugen sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #Chief's office
             KEAL                                                                                        flour mill                      Kapsarok                                                                                                            Torit sch
                                            Nyalunya sch                                                                                                                                                                               Samutet shops
                                                                 #Wasare sch                                                               Pol St.                                                                                             #                    #

                                                      #                             Paplisana sch                                                                                                                                                                              Kaboswa(Kipsabet)#
                                                                                   #                                                                                                                                                                    #                                                                         Kapcheptoror sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #Kaboswa tea store                        #
                                      Ragen flour mill                                             Onyuongo                                                                                                                                      Sitotwet sch                R.
                      #                                                                                                      Ndori sch
                    Bugo sch         #                                                                                                                                                                              Soliat sch.
                                                                   #Kogola sch                                                   #
                                                                                                   sch                                                Kano(Reresik)                                                #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #Kabukyek                        Kapsoit shops
                                                                                                          #

                                   R. Kibuon                                                                                 .R                                                                                                                                              #                  # Telanet sch
                                                                             #Manyatta mkt                                                             Kapsomboch sch
                                              #Ragen sch                                                                                                         #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Legend
                                                                      #Olembo sch
                     #Mbugra sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     High

                           #Abwao sch            R.Ragen                                                                   asA Onywongo
                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                         wo                                                                                            R. Cheronget                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Moderate
                                                                                                     #Jonyoi        aurB(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Low
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Very low
                             #Okanowach mkt                                                                       a)
                                                                                       #Sigoti H/C                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                  #Kaplelatet sch                                                              Cheribo sch

                                                                                 Remo mkt
                                                                                   #


                       #Mbora sch
                                                #Rakwaro sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kalyangwet sch
                                                          #Nyakach DHq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #     Sosiot Pol P#
                                              #Nyamarimba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #      Towns / Markets
                                               mkt                                               # Nyaroka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sch.    School
                                                                                                                                                                           #Kabirigut Disp
                                                                                                       Maraboi sch#                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pol P.  Police Post
                                                                                                                                                        #H/Centre                                              #Kiptere sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DHQ.    District HeadQuarters
                                                                                                                                                 # Sikowon Hill
                                                                                                                                                                   #Musaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Disp.   Dispensary

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Scale 1:150,000                                                                                                                                                                                    Major Towns
                                                                                                                                                    #Tonungoi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       All Weather Roads Bound Surface

                                                                                                                                                                            #Kakibei sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10                                                          0                                                    10                                                  20 Kilometers                                                                                          All Weather Roads Loose Surface

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dry Weather Road

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Motorable Tracks

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Railway Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rivers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Soil survey       : C.R.K. Njoroge, B.K. Waruru, P.W. Kimotho and P.O. Owenga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Map compilation : B.K. Waruru and C.R.K. Njoroge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Map correlation : S.N. Wanjogu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Map digitization : L.K. Tanui and P.A. Okech




9Data on soil, vegetation, erosion rates, and carbon stocks were collected under the PDF B and will serve as the
baseline for the Nyando catchment. Similar baseline data will be compiled for Yala and Nzoia catchments.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               107

Nyando Catchment Erosion



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EROSION HAZARD MAP OF THE RIVER NYANDO CATCHMENT AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                     # Kaitet Factory



                                                                                                                                                                              #Kipkenyo mkt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             # Nandi Hills


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #Ketparak Farm


                                                                                                                                                                       #Ibanja                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kipkurere Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #
                                                                                                                                                                     #Aldai sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kingware sch                                                                                                                                      Old Sikh                      Highlands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                                                #Kaptumo mkt                                                                                                 Siret sche Stores                                                                              #                     No.1 Sawmills
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Soiyet #                                                                        #                                                                           Sawmill                                                                   Timboroa Timsales
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # Timboroa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #                                                                                                                                                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kabarchoge
                                                                                                                               Chepkongony sch
                                                                                                                                        #                                                                                                                                                       Kipingai Farm
                                                                                                                                                        #Kiplitito sch                     Savani Tea Factory                                                          Stores
                                                                                                                                                                                            #                                                # Matema                                           Mission  #
                                                                                                                                                                                 #Kamngorian mkt

                                                                                                                                                                                                # Labour Lines            #Kapsimutwo Farm
                                                                                                                                                                     #Kaburo sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kibleso
                                                                                                                                                     # Koyo mkt

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R.Kipkurerei                                                                            #




                                                                                                                                        #Ndurio mkt
                                                                                                                                                                     #Kapsaos mkt                                                                                                                                                         N.D.C Camp             Factory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #



                                                                                                                                                                                     pic
                                                                                                                                                                                       ho
                                                                                                                                                                                        ria                                                 Ngeron Dairy                        Kipsesin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   # Timboroa TV Trans. Sta

                                                                                                                              # Kapkolei
                                                                                                                                  Disp
                                                                                                                                                                                   K.
                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                   Kapkwuong mkt          #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mberere    #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        labour lines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # Mberere                             Ainobngetuny


                                                                                                                                                                                                         #Chemelil Mission
                N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Store #                                                  #  Tinderet Factory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Twin Bridge                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sorgut Forest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mberere Estate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sawmill#  Station  #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Camp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #Kamarero Guest House

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Songhor Shops                        # Songhor Vet. Office                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kibleso
                                                                                                                                                           Chepswerta mkt                                                                                             #                        # Kipsitoi                                                                                                                             Malaget#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sawmill
                                                                                                                                                               #                                                        R. Mbogo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #

                                                                                                                                                                                                   # Labour Lines                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Labour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Godabuoro Shops
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R.Mbogo                                                                                                                                                                   Camp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #
                                                                                                                                           Kibigori
                                                                                                                                                   #                                                                                           Achego
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shop #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Stores#
                                                                                                                                                                    # Nyakunguru sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Liloch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tamu Disp                    # Mompwo Farm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                    R. Nyando                                CHEMELIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             # Store
                                                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                                         R. Osengeteti                                      #Godabuoro                                                           # Meswa Farm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              # Stores

                                                                                                                                                                                                 #Ngeny sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sawmill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #                                                                                                                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Makindu mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #Labour LinesSta                                                                                                              #


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #Jeberen
                                                               #Kigoche Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #Coffee Res. Sta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #Kaula sch
                                                                                                                                                #Nyang'oma Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                            #Migere sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Githee#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.Mu#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           horoni                                                                                                                                  # Factory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        #                                                                                        # Shop
                                                                                 R. Nyando          Nyalenda sch                                                             #
                                                                                                                                                                         Nyatao sch                                                                                                                                                                                 # Mission            Songonyet Coffee Est
                                                                                                       #                                                                                                                          Sugar Factory                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     # Landhies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              #                  MUHORONI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #      Landhies

                                                                                                                                                                   #Awasi mkt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LONDIANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ToNakuru

                                                                                                                                                                                                        Angoro mkt       # Kileges mkt
                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Workshops
                                    To Kisumu         AHERO       Onjiko sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                       #
                                                       #                                                                                                                                                                                        R.Nyando
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gomwet Pol P
                                                                                                                                                                                                         #            R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sugar                #KORU
                                                                                                                                 Orem Sch                                                                               Chebirir   #Thesalia Mission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Factoryteti
                                                                                                                                 #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Soil Conservation
                                                                                                                                        R. Nyaidho                                                                                                                                        #                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Service
                                                                                                                                                            #Wang'anga Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               # Chepsiria
                                                                                                                                                                                           R. Kaplelach                             Chemutum                                               R.  Lenge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LUMBWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #                                                                                                                                                                                                               R.Nyando
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #                                          FORT TERNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # Koiyabei sch          Mission Hosp                                     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MoW Camp#
                                                 #Kangimba sch                                                                                                                                                                                      # Koitabrot mkt
                                                                                           # Luora Ayweyo Sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Siret Farm#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #Kedowa sch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tunnel Station
                                                     #Apondo sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #

                                                                      Awach                                                                                                                                                       #Kipsitet Chief's Office                                                                                                                                                   Mombwa Farm
                                                                              #
                                                                            Kano
                                                                               Awach Mkt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #


                                                                                                                #
                               Ambaka sch                                    #
                              #                                               Rae Sch   (Reresik)                      Yogo Sch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # Senetwet sch                                                                                                                                     (Kipchorion)                                                                                     Kedowa


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chepseon farm
                                                                                                                                  #Katolo Sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R.Nyando         Tugunon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #                                 #


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chepseon sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kenegut                                                    #Migere sch
                                                  Veterinary office                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tugenon                                                                                                                                                     #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sc H/C#                                                                                               R.            Kaboloin sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #                                                                                                                                              Wool shed
                                                             #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wenwa sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Singoronik #                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #


                                                                                                       # Wenwa sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Buchenge sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sch                                                                                          #                           Chepsir Disp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
   AIROTC          R.Nyando                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kedowa sawmills
                                                                                                              Kiboko shops               R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #


                                                                                                                               #

                                                                                 #Lisana sch
                                                                                                                                Cherwa sch Awach                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kapkiam shops                                                                                           Kerisoi forest station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chepkonik sch                                     Ketitui sch                                                                                                      To Kericho                                                    #



         VI                                                             R. Asawo                     #Kanyamlori                          #                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                #         #Kapsarok sch
                                                                                                                                        Kapsarok                                                                                                                                                                                                              ##Chebugen sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #Chief's office
           KEAL                                                                                         flour mill                                                                                                                                        Torit sch
                                          Nyalunya sch                                                                                                                                                                              Samutet shops
                                                               #Wasare sch                                                                Pol St.
                                                   #                              Paplisana sch
                                                                                 #                                                                                                                                                                   #                                Kaboswa tea store                        #Kapcheptoror sch
                                    Ragen flour mill                                             Onyuongo                                                                                                                                     Sitotwet sch                          #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Legend
                    #                                                                                                       Ndori sch
                                   #
                  Bugo sch                                                                                                                                                                                       Soliat sch.
                                                                 #Kogola sch                                                    #
                                                                                                 sch                                                  Kano(Reresik)                                                                         #                    #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R.Kaboswa(Kipsabet)#

                                                                                                                                                                                                                #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #Kabukyek                        Kapsoit shops
                                                                                                        #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  very severe
                                 R. Kibuon                                                                                 .R                                                                                                                                              #                  # Telanet sch
                                                                           #Manyatta mkt                                                              Kapsomboch sch
                                            #Ragen sch                                                                                                          #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          severe
                                                                    #Olembo sch                                          asA # Onywongo
                   #Mbugra sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             high
                         #Abwao sch            R.Ragen                                                               B(wo                                                                                           R. Cheronget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           moderate
                                                                                                   #Jonyoi       a)r
                                                                                                                   ua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      low
                           #Okanowach mkt
                                                                                     #Sigoti H/C                                                                                                                           #Cheribo sch
                                                                                                                                                  #Kaplelatet sch
                                                                                 #
                                                                               Remo mkt
                     #Mbora sch
                                              #Rakwaro sch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kalyangwet sch
                                                        #Nyakach DHq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #     Sosiot Pol P#                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #      Towns / Markets
                                            #Nyamarimba
                                             mkt                                               # Nyaroka                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sch.    School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pol P.  Police Post
                                                                                                                                                                          #Kabirigut Disp
                                                                                                     Maraboi sch#                                      #H/Centre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DHQ.    District HeadQuarters
                                                                                                                                                                                                           # Kiptere sch
                                                                                                                                                 # Sikowon Hill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Disp.   Dispensary
                                                                                                                                                                 # Musaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Scale 1:150,000                                                                                                                                                                                    Major Towns

                                                                                                                                                    #Tonungoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                All Weather Roads Bound Surface

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10                                                                 0                                                   10                                                    20 Kilometers                                                                                           All Weather Roads Loose Surface
                                                                                                                                                                           #Kakibei sch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dry Weather Road

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Motorable Tracks

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Railway Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rivers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Soil survey       : C.R.K. Njoroge, B.K. Waruru, P.W. Kimotho and P.O. Owenga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Map compilation : B.K. Waruru and C.R.K. Njoroge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Map correlation : S.N. Wanjogu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Map digitization : L.K. Tanui and P.A. Okech




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    108

WB93918
Q:\My Documents\WKIEMP Draft PAD 3-25-04.doc
March 26, 2004 2:42 PM




                                                109

