                              Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/29/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: KENYA                                                 Project ID: P072981
Project: Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Mgt.               Task Team Leader: Berhane Manna
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 10, 2004                  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 18, 2004                                   IDA Amount ($m): 0.00
                                                               Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 4.50
Managing Unit: AFTS2                                           Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)             (100%)
Status: Grant                                                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                                                               Biodiversity (P); Other environment and natural
                                                               resources management (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
Background and context

Western Kenya supports one of the densest and poorest populations in the world, with up to 1200 persons/
sq.km, and nearly 30-50 percent households subsisting on less than $16 a month. Low agricultural
productivity, high population pressure and lack of off-farm income opportunities have contributed to low
incomes and increasing land degradation. Both high and lowland areas are under threat as marginal lands
are increasingly brought under agricultural use and encroachment into remaining woodlands, wetlands and
natural forests causes land degradation, habitat destruction and biodiversity losses.

Current smallholder practices are no longer adequate to meet food needs or maintain the resource base. Use
of traditional land management methods such as fallowing of lands kept land degradation under check in
the past. With pressure from an increasing population and greater food insecurity, this practice has been
almost abandoned, resulting in severe erosion and nutrient depletion. The subsequent sediment and nutrient
loading in watercourses has caused significant eutrophication of Lake Victoria. Rapid erosion has also
created large, fast growing gullies that increasingly encroach on valuable farmland.

Poverty reduction, environmental quality and sustainable agriculture are intricately linked in Western
Kenya. Intensification of land use is necessary to achieve farming systems that are more sustainable than
what is available today. Experiences from Central Kenya, where there is evidence of high productivity, high
profits, and good land management, are supportive of this relationship. Improved land management
techniques that focus on increasing soil fertility, such as agroforestry, provide the opportunity to achieve
sustainable agricultural intensification.

In addition to solving local problems of poverty and natural resource degradation, better farming practices
also provide global environmental benefits in areas of biodiversity, international waterways, and climate
change. The recent Land-Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry Report (2000) of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has identified land use techniques to convert degraded croplands into
agroforestry with the largest potential to sequester carbon. Estimates of carbon accumulation rates range
from 2 to 9 tonnes per hectare per year, depending on the climate and the nature of the agroforestry
practice.

                                                          2
                                                                                                          ISDS


Kenya has already acquired some experience and expertise in addressing the issues of land and soil
degradation in the western region through a number of initiatives focused on soil fertility and improved land
management (such as the Soil Management Project, Legume Research Network, and Agricultural
Technology and Information Response Initiative). The proposed project would be implemented in Western
Kenya with the main purpose of scaling up the existing successes to cover a larger area and more farming
communities.

Project Development Objective

The project seeks to improve the productivity and sustainability of farming systems through a set
interventions designed to promote understanding and adoption of improved land management techniques
and value added production in the Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia River Basins of Western Kenya. In order to
achieve this, the project will: i) scale up activities to rehabilitate degraded lands such as improved
management of soil fertility, agroforestry, and introduction of value-added cropping systems to promote
food security and poverty reduction; and (ii) improve capacity for local communities, farmer associations,
and national institutions to identify, formulate and implement sustainable land management activities
capturing local and global environmental benefits.

Project objectives would be achieved through a community driven development process whereby
communities direct and coordinate resources for infrastructure investments, technical assistance and
implementation of ecosystem management activities. The project would also seek to address constraints
that impede the adoption of integrated ecosystem management approaches, such as the absence of critical
data, lack of coordination and coordinating mechanisms, and low capacity for implementation.

Global Objective

The project development objective is consistent with the GEF Operational Program on Integrated
Ecosystem Management (OP 12), which supports comprehensive interventions that reflect the social,
economic and ecological aspects of sustainable natural resource management. Project activities in
improved land management and agroforestry will reduce the negative impact of agricultural activities on
the ecosystem, particularly sediment and nutrient loading in surrounding watercourses, as well as
enhancing the potential to sequester additional above- and below-ground carbon. The project will provide
global environmental benefits in three of the four focal areas of OP 12 (biodiversity, international
waterways, and climate change) by promoting sustainable land management so as to capture the benefits of
reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) accumulation in the atmosphere, improved on and off farm biodiversity,
and decreased erosion in watersheds that feed into Nyando, Yala and Nzoia River Basins.


I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
It is proposed that the project would have three broad components.

Component 1: Capacity Building for Community Driven Sustainable Land Management

Activities in the first component will focus on three areas of capacity building: formulation of decentralized
action plans called Participatory Action Plans (PAPs), technical assistance to promote adoption of
improved land management technologies, and capacity building for piloting carbon financing mechanisms.
Activities would utilize a demand-driven approach to mobilize communities to implement small scale
interventions involving agroforestry or other improved land management technologies.

                                                       3
                                                                                                         ISDS


Sub-component 1: PAPs will be prepared at the community level using participatory rural appraisal (PRA)
methods. A PAP would strengthen the integration of stakeholders including smallholders, other producers,
NGOs, local government, and others by promoting their participation in decision-making councils at the
local, provincial and regional levels. The project will support farmer associations and community/farmer
organizations, which already are beginning to form in the area, and strengthen them through institutional
learning involving awareness building, training, and community mobilization. Emphasis will be on farmer
innovators who are community leaders. PAPs will be prepared with technical and institutional
backstopping from KARI and ICRAF.

Sub-component 2: Technical assistance will be provided through technical backstopping, facilitation of
community and farmer driven demand for extension services, and community learning. Project and GEF
resources will finance community meetings, technical assistance, information campaigns, and stakeholder
workshops. Pilot areas will be established to test and demonstrate PAP options. Successful implementation
of these pilots will encourage the stakeholders to enlarge the coverage to other regions of the Lake Victoria
basin. The activities to be supported will include participatory adaptive on-farm research with farmers,
farmer field schools and community level documentation centers, farmer-to-farmer exchanges, training of
extension workers and rural development practitioners (NGOs, local development authorities, MoA
extension staff), and development of extension messages. Technical backstopping or facilitation of
planning, implementing, and evaluating the program interventions could be provided by NGOs and other
service providers as well as KARI and ICRAF. District Agriculture and Livestock Development Offices
would perform the key role of interfacing with farmer organizations and liaising with the project
coordination committee.

Sub-component 3: In order to facilitate the participation of targeted communities in the global carbon
market, the project will build the capacity of the government, local institutions, and communities, and help
develop appropriate partnerships with the private sector. In particular, the project will enhance the ability
of target communities to develop carbon finance proposals, measure baselines, and establish the financial
and administrative processes required to enter into carbon sequestration contracts. The project will also
help develop partnerships between community organizations and the private sector for the provision of
technical assistance.

Component 2: Scaling up and Financing Sustainable Land Management Interventions

The second component will support implementation of improved land management activities identified in
the first component and finance investments in PAP identified sub-projects. Community sub-projects would
be financed through a matching grant program that would require community contributions. The
component will also fund infrastructure development for farmers and community organizations who will be
the key bodies for planning and implementing sub-projects or identified interventions.

Development and implementation of PAPs will complement currently ongoing projects in the area, namely
the Soil Management Project (SMP), Agricultural Technology and Information Response Initiative
(ATIRI), and Legume Research Network Project (LRNP). Small projects identified in the PAP plans may
include development of village nurseries to support agro-forestry, development of existing bio-diversity
resources, support for alternatives to control land degradation and reduce sediment loss, and land
management interventions to sequester carbon in agricultural landscapes. The ATIRI approach will be used
to set up a system of competitive bids to finance the PAP activities.

Component 3: Establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation System

                                                        4
                                                                                                           ISDS


Monitoring and Evaluation activities are included as a separate component due to the technical
requirements associated with quantifying environmental benefits and the importance of measuring progress
on project objectives.

The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information for directly assessing the outcomes
and impacts of the project, and also for refining working methodologies and procedures. The M & E system
would focus primarily on project impacts, project implementation will be monitored through project
administration. Monitoring will focus on two broad areas of impact, socioeconomic and biophysical. M&E
would be carried out using participatory mechanisms, however, a much stronger technical/scientific
component associated with biophysical measurement will be needed. These will build on methods generated
under the targeted research activities of the project, and will consist of a mix of field surveys and remote
sensing, some of which were tested during development of baseline data.

Measurement of carbon sequestration will be particularly challenging but results will be accumulated at the
end of the project to produce "net-net accounting" of carbon stocks. Thus, some targeted research activities
will explore more cost effective options.

Other monitoring activities will involve community level monitoring of action plans (PAPs), using the
"Impact Monitoring and Assessment" tools. Progress on the social, economic, agricultural and
environmental objectives of the action plans will be assessed. Poverty levels will be assessed at the start of
the project based on the 1999 census, but in addition project staff will collect household data to assess
change in poverty during the term of the project. The project will also engage in erosion and nutrient loss
monitoring using standard procedures. The incidence of pests and diseases, and the impacts of these on the
welfare of farmers in the project area will be monitored.

Specific sub-component activities will include: (i) greenhouse gas monitoring; (ii) biodiversity monitoring;
(iii) monitoring poverty and project impacts on farmer livelihoods; (iv) monitoring erosion and nutrient
loss, and pests and diseases; and (iii) establishing a management structure to ensure sustainability of
carbon crediting.


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The project will be implemented in selected watersheds in the Nyando, Yala, and Nzoia river basins of
Western Kenya, which is home to 12 million people, or 40% of the country's population, but occupies only
15% of the land area. These lands have high agricultural potential, yet recent soil degradation has led to
incidences of abject poverty on the order of 30 to 50% of the rural households (Central Bureau of Statistics,
1998). Low yields and increasing population in western Kenya have caused more marginal lands to be
brought into production and degradation of remaining natural forests, resulting in still greater rates of land
degradation, habitat destruction, and biodiversity losses.

People from six major ethnic groups inhabit the districts falling within the project area: the Abagusii, Luo,
Masai, Abasuba, Kuria and the Kipsigis. The primary livelihood strategy is farming, with around 80 percent
of the population in the three river basins engaging in some type of agricultural activity. Local cultural norms
and groupings affect livelihood strategies and access to resources. Such differences, in combination with
agro-ecological circumstances, affect the mix of agriculture, livestock, petty business and other non farm
activities households rely on for income. Enterprise management and crop production is also gender specific in

                                                          5
                                                                                                            ISDS


many cases. Ownership of land, although widespread, is dominated by men. HIV/AIDS rates in Western
Kenya are also among the highest in the country and have left a growing number of rural households widowed
or orphaned. Women headed households represent up to 35 percent of households in some project areas.

Western Kenya also supports a number of protected areas that have unique habitats and biodiversity of local,
national and global significance: the Kakamega and Nandi Reserve Forests, the Ruma National Park, Yala
National Reserve, Bunyala Forest Reserve, and the West Kano Bird Sanctuary.

Western Kenya is also part of the larger Lake Victoria Basin, whose products and services support some 25
million people in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Environmental degradation in the uplands inevitably affects
the lake, resulting in declining fisheries and increased infestation by the exotic aquatic weed, water hyacinth.



B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The project is classified as category B. Although the project is expected to produce net benefits in
terms of natural resource management and conservation, certain project activities related to improved land
management may have environmental or social impacts that require mitigation.




C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                       Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes      No       TBD
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes      No       TBD
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes      No       TBD
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes      No       TBD
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes      No       TBD
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes      No       TBD
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes      No       TBD
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes      No       TBD
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes      No       TBD
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes      No       TBD



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

Project activities will not result in any large scale or irreversible environmental or social impacts but will
trigger safeguards policies in the areas of international waters, involuntary resettlement, and natural habitats.
The small scale of project activities, community driven decision making process, and nature of activities
(on-farm agroforestry and other improved land management techniques) make it unlikely that significant

                                                         6
                                                                                                            ISDS


resettlement or environmental damage will occur during implementation. Through soil and water conservation,
reforestation, and grazing measures, the project is expected to substantially improve environmental conditions
in the target areas.

The following safeguard policies are triggered:

International Waters. The project will be implemented in the Nyando, Yala and Nzoia River Basins, which are
part of the larger Lake Victoria watershed and, as such, may require notification of other countries within the
Lake Victoria and Nile River Basin. However, the project does not envision extensive use of irrigation or other
consumptive water use activities.

Environmental Assessment. Although one of the goals of the project is greater environmental sustainability of
agricultural production and land management, project interventions associated with improved land
management may have some environmental impacts that will require assessment and mitigation. Specific land
management activities include:

- Tree planting for woodlots, in boundaries or as scattered trees in farms for poles, fuelwood, or charcoal;

- Planting of high value trees such as fruit tree orchards, timber trees or medicinal trees;

- Management of woody areas for poles, timber and fodder;

- Establishment of fenced pastures to restore natural vegetation;

- Establishment of tree nurseries;

- Agroforestry for soil fertility replenishment and improved crop production (improved fallows, biomass
transfer, mixed cropping);

- Proper management of residues on farm;

- Development of non wood products (honey, crafts, oil, medicine);

- Improved technologies for energy saving and production;

- Rehabilitation and construction of structures for spring protection, water conservation, drainage channels or
dykes.

Natural Habitats. There are a number of critical habitats in western Kenya. The project will not be
implemented in any protected area or involve conversion or degradation of natural habitats, and activities
consist primarily of water control measures in catchment areas to reduce flooding. While the impact of such
activities is expected to be low, this will be further investigated in the Environmental and Social Assessment.

Involuntary resettlement. Project activities such as soil re-capitalization, erosion control, and tree planting
may result in the alteration of land or changes in access for both communal and private land. This could
conceivably result in a loss of income or livelihood for community members and farmers.

The following safeguard policies may or may not be triggered. Their status will be determined during the
Environmental and Social Assessment.

Indigenous Peoples. The project will be implemented with farmers in lowland and highland areas and will not
significantly impact indigenous peoples. Nonetheless, there have been clashes between sedentary and nomadic
populations in Western Kenya in the past. These issues will be further investigated during development of the
project and the Environmental and Social Assessment.

                                                         7
                                                                                                               ISDS




Cultural Property. The project will be implemented on or around farms and will not include areas of
significant cultural value. However, the project may impact small communal cultural property such as funeral
or burial sites. The project's participatory approach and resettlement framework should be sufficient to ensure
appropriate management of such property.

The remaining safeguard policies are not triggered:

Forestry. Although Western Kenya does support a number of protected forest areas, they are not within or
adjacent to the specific project area. It is unlikely that project activities will have any significant effect on
forest ecosystems.

Pest Management. The project will not finance the procurement of pesticides directly or indirectly.

Safety of Dams. The project does not involve any dams or construction of dams.

Projects in Disputed Areas. The project area does not include any disputed areas.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.

Cumulative effects due to multiple project components are not anticipated. The project's four components are
narrow in scope and tailored to support the primary activity of the project: improved land rehabilitation and
management. Each component reinforces the other and it is anticipated that negative environmental and social
impacts would be insignificant. The project is expected to have a positive long term environmental impact.

Application of the four triggered safeguard policies is also unlikely to result in negative cumulative impacts,
prescribed mitigation activities would not significantly alter project activities or create new environmental or
social problems.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.

As environmental factors are perceived to play a key role in the current level of chronic food insecurity in the
target areas, environmental rehabilitation is a key component to building up and sustaining the natural resource
base. The project will support a community driven approach to sustainable land management and create a
framework for community ecosystem management, including mitigation of negative environmental impact.

It is conceivable that the project could have a negative social impact by increasing tree planting or other land
improvement techniques that further reduce access to communal or private land, thus altering the livelihood
options available to farmers. However, the project is designed to minimize this possibility; individuals or
communities who participate in activities involving the alteration or withdrawal of land for the purposes of
agroforestry or improved land management will also be those who will control the products or services
generated by such activities.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)

Several alternatives were considered in design of the project to maximize the impact on agricultural
productivity and ecosystem sustainability. The proposed project seeks to integrate the management of
agricultural production and environmental service functions to generate global environmental benefits and

                                                          8
                                                                                                           ISDS


contribute to more sustainable agricultural productivity. The first project proposal considered covered all
lands in western Kenya that fall within the Lake Victoria watershed. The priority districts were to be
selected taking into account several criteria of GEF, carbon sequestration and biodiversity increment
potential, severity of land degradation and the proximity to reserves with significant degradation due to
external pressure. This idea was abandoned because the area was too large and consequently the piloting of
integrated ecosystem management approaches together with mainstreaming and scaling up interventions
would have had very little impact and high transaction costs. More impact can be achieved by focusing on
three river basins over the life of the project. It is therefore, proposed to begin activities in the Nyando
River basin during the first year and extend activities to the Yala and Nzoia River basins during the second
and third years of the project. The more focused approach will also reduce potential negative environmental
and social impacts and ease coordination of mitigation strategies.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

An Environmental and Social Management Framework, including a resettlement framework, will be
developed to address the issues around natural habitats, resettlement and environmental management in
project implementation. The Environmental and Social Management Framework will detail the roles and
responsibilities of relevant institutions and individuals involved in developing and implementing various
aspects of the project. The ESMF will also shape development of the project's operations manual and
supervision activities. Because selection of project activities will occur throughout implementation,
assessment of environmental and social impact will be ongoing. The ESMF will include a mechanism
whereby sub-projects would be required to include mitigation plans if necessary.


II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

Consultations on safeguards issues will be participatory. A three day workshop on project development
took place in December 2000 with the participation of farmer groups, government agencies (KARI,
Ministry of Agriculture, KEFRI), NGOs and international organizations. Further consultation will take
place during the development of the ESMF and overall project design. Implementation of the project will be
coordinated by KARI, but the project envisages the participation of ICRAF, farmers, NGOs, and other
community organizations both benefiting from the strengthened institutional capacity and participating in
the payment for environmental services and the management of protected areas. The entire process of
planning and project preparation would be participatory, and the project monitoring and evaluation would
also be carried out with farmer participation. The key performance standards would provide for output and
impact indicators to measure farmer and community participation, capacity building of the community
institutions, indicators for incomes and poverty reduction, and outcomes of a sustainable agriculture.

Institutional responsibility for disclosure of safeguards documents and consultation with stakeholders will
rest with the implementing agency, KARI. The National Environmental Management Authority will also
provide technical expertise in developing the ESMF.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas

                                                     9
                                                                                                        ISDS


[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               11/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           12/1/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            12/1/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               11/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           12/1/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            12/1/2003

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                     Berhane Manna                                         10/30/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                   Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                                           10/30/2003
Sector Manager                        Karen Mcconnell Brooks                                10/30/2003

