I)ocument of
The Worli Bank
FOR OFFWI(IAI. USLF ONI.
Report No. 94 15
PROJECT COMPI.ETION REPORT
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 963-[N)
MARCH 12, 1991
Agricultture Operations Division
Countrv Department IV
Asia Regional Office
lhis document has a restricted distribution and ma% be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties, Its contents ma% not otherwiise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4,>-,'1  R-; 8.UK) (A tliop4s.1 ]981j 1/
- s '6.'f' (Junt 1989) ,/
El T 2 AI. YE A?  : r' F?RIV-EfRs
Ap ii I - Mlarch 31
AR!'R V''RTEA: TON S
CMICC      -      Centr al Monitoring and Coordir.at ing Co.nmittee
21'        -      Cent raI Pro i e t U,n i t
ERR        -      F:xe-"Lit ivpe Fra j-t £      r y
E PRR      -       lItI rnol F( ono:nic Rate of R.eturn
FFDA       -      Fish Farmer Develop:nent Agency
FRR        -      Internal Financial Rate of Return
FSDC       -      Fisheries Seed Developmernt Corporation
GCD        _      Government of India
NABARD    -       National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
PCR        -      Project Completion Report
SAR       -       Staff Appraisal Repozt
SFD        -      State Fisheries Department
1/   The USS/Rs conversion rate at appraisal was based on the projected
exchange rate covering the project period (US$1 = Rs 8.60) which in
retrospect was equal to the average 1981 excl.o!ige rate as recorded by th
International Fina.icial Statistics (monthly bulletin from IMF).
2'   c:.>:  :.'e:--a tna. F:.u . ;ai Stat st t.   TIMF.  August 1989.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THt WORLD BANK
Washington D C 20413
US A
O0$se cE Ditfegt.,el
OpHatw,m IvaIIJi E~
March 12, 1991
MEMc:,1ANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDIA
Inland Fisheries Project (Credit 963-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Inland Fisheries Project (Credit 963-IN)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 963-IN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   ............................................................                                                           i
Evaluation  Summary   .................................................                                                       iii
PART  I:    PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE   ....................                                                    1
Project  Identity   ..............................................                                                      1
Backgrourd  ....................................................                                                        1
Project  Objectives   and  Description   ............................                                                   2
Project  Concept,   Design  and  Organization   ......................                                                   3
Project   Implementation   ........................................                                                     5
Project  Results   ...............................................                                                       6
Project  Sustainability   ........................................                                                      9
Bank  Performance   ..............................................                                                     10
Borrower  Performance   ..........................................                                                     11
Project  Relationship   ..........................................                                                     12
Consulting  Services   ...........................................                                                     12
Project  Documentation  and  Data   ................................                                                   13
PART  II:    PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE   ...............                                                  15
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part I'  ......1                                                       15
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned ....                                                ......        15
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
and  Lessons  Learned   .........................................                                                  17
PART  III:         STATISTICAL   INFORMATION   .................................                                               19
Related  Bank  Loans   ............................................                                                   19
Project  Timetable   .............................................                                                    19
Credit  Disbursements   ..........................................                                                    20
Project Implementation ..................                                                                  ....  20
Project  Cost  and  Financing   ....................................                                                  21
Project  Results   ...............................................                                                    22
Status of Covenants ...... .                      ...................................    25
Use  of  Bank  Resources   .........................................                                                  25
APPENDIX  -  Major  Covenants   .........................................                                                      27
This document has d restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 963-IN)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Inland Fish-
eries Project in India, for which an IDA credit in the amount of US$20
million was approved on December 13, 1979. The loan was closed on Septem-
ber 30, 1988.  At compl^:ion date (March 16, 1989), the total amount dis-
bursed was US$19.34 million.
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Divi-
sion of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.       Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project in September 1987, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report, Credit and Project Agreements, the World
Bank supervision reports and project files, the Project Completion Reports
prepared by each one of the five participating States, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and on discus-
sions both with the World Bank staff and the Indian staff associated with
the project.



- ii~i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 963-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the project were to increase the production
of carp and provide a basis for the future commercial development of the carp
seed industry in India (see para 3.1). This was to be achieved through provi-
sion of credit and extension to farmers who were to improve and exploit under-
utilized ponds and purchase fish seed from public hatcheries to be established
by the project. Training centers were to be built for the training of
extension officers. An element of subsidy was also introduced to
encourage poor farmers' participation (see para 3.2).
Implementation Experience
2.        The project had some serious delays at the initial stage of
implementation on the hatchery as well as the fish pond development components
due to different problems (see para 5.2). The construction of the hatcheries
was hindered by: (i) the fact that the prescribed sizes of the hatc   ies were
large, which caused problems in proper site selection in the projec   -ates
where there is much fragmentation of land ownership; and (ii) the debate on
the design of the hatcheries between the Bank on one side and the hatchery
engineer consultant and GOI on the other. This debate was characterized by
the rigidity of the Bank's attitude which has become even more open to
criticism once it was found that the judgement of the consultant and the GOI
was not at all incorrect.
3.        The main cause for the delay in the fish pond development component
concerned sanctioning of credit. One of the key features of the project on
which its success hinged was a condition that the Bank put forward for credit
effectiveness: long-term leases (10-years) of ponds should replace the short-
term leases (up to three years) prevailing at that time. Nevertheless, after
the long-term leases were introduced, another serious obstacle previously not
considered became evident: most participating farmers who were mainly from
the poorer sector had no collateral and the participating banks refused to
lend without this (see para 5.2). In 1984, the National Bank for Agriculture
& Rural Development (NABARD) proposed that the problem could be solved if the
participating banks should accept the long-term leases as collateral.
Eventually, when the banks accepted this suggestion this component of the
project took off, as the constraint on fish seed supply had been removed by
the private sector, particularly in West Bengal, which was not envisaged in
the project. The private sector covered the higher demand for fish seed while
the construction of the project hatcheries owned and run by Government was not
yet completed (see para 5.7). Once these were completed, seed production



- iv -
delays occurred due to management problems, poor site selection, etc., while
the fish pond development component continued to progress rapidly with the
help of the extension service effectively provided by the Fish Farmer
Development Agency (FFDAs).
Results
4.        Although the project had to be extended for three consecutive years,
the final results have been laudable. The incremental production of carp is
now estimated at 220,000 mt and should reach about 260,000 mt (appraisal
target 200,000 mt) at full development, the financial rate of return (FRR) of
the fish farmer has been over 100Z (appraisal 55Z), and the economic rate of
return (ERR) of the project has been estimated at 65Z (appraisal 42:). One of
the two negative aspects of the project results concerns the financial
performance of the project hatcheries (FRR negative). Nevertheless, the
project's objective to provide a basis for the future commercial development
of the carp seed industry ir India through this component has been achieved
beyond appraisal expectations, although not along the lines envisaged at that
time (see para. 6.2). The carp seed industry is now a well established
commercial industry in India. The second negative aspect of the project
concerns its unfavorable impact on the Government's budget (see para 6.13).
Substantial amounts of funds were spent on extension and subsidies and no cost
recovery mechanism has so far been introduced.
5.        The subsidies, which covered up to 25 times the cost of pond
improvement and first year inputs, were used by all farmer participants rather
than only the poor ones and had an accelerating effect on the project.
However, it is nct clear whether the cost incurred was justified. Without the
subsidies, the project may have accelerated more slowly, but the cost saved to
Government might have been worth it.
Sustainability
6.        The project is expected to continue generating benefits at a higher
level than foreseen at appraisal. The FFDA scheme that has been the main
vehicle for the project's development has functioned effectively and is now
being expanded (see para 6.7) to about 300 districts (the project covered 58
districts at appraisal and was amended during implementation to cover 37
more). All the major obstacles to carp fish farming have now been overcome in
the project area and there appears to be little that can stop further develop-
ment of this sub-sector. Even abolishment of the subsidy would not affect the
sustainability of this development. Nevertheless, there may be a risk: a low
loan recovery ratio by the participating bankR. So far, no problems have been
reported but in view of the generally poor loan recovery situation in the
agricultural sector, this could become a risk (see paras 7.2 and 7.3).
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.        The experience gained by this project could imply that any project
that has been based on a sound and relatively simple concept for which the
Government has successfully tested the institutional framework, would have a
greater chance of success. It was found that when the Bank becomes involved



-v-
in such a project and clearly puts forward the conditionalities, the
Government is induced to see the project th'rough with a greater commitment.
The Bank's involvement should therefore not only be seen as a funding agency
but also as a catalyst to development (see para 8.1).
8.        Lessons learned from the project experience for both the Bank and
the Borrower (see paras 8.4 and 9.6) are that: (i) more time should be given
for preparation; (ii) projects introducing new technologies should be
initiated with a pilot phase (iii); private sector involvement in the project
should not only be anticipated but encouraged (see para 8.2); (iv, the Bank
should have a much more flexible approach during project implementation;
(v) appraisal and su.pervision missions should preferably not be carried out
always with the same expert; (vi) cost recovery mechanisms should be
introduced in projects showing high profitability; and (vii) the Borrowers
should consider mechanisms for more rapid appointment of staff in
investment projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 963-IN)
PART I: PROJECI' REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name               :          Inland Fisheries Project
Credit No.                             963-IN
RVP Unit                              AS4AG
Country                                India
Sector                                Fisheries
Sub-sector                            Aquaculture
2.   Background
2.1       At the time the project was identified and appraised, fish produc-
tion was becoming an increasingly Important element of the Indian economy on
account of a relatively high (7Z) annual growth rate in fish consumption due
amongst other things to an increasing urban demand for fish. Prior to the
project, fisheries development had concentrated mainly on marine fisheries,
which contributed about 65Z of India's total fish production of 2.6 million
metric tons.  Inland fishery, including freshwater aquaculture, had received
little attention. Only from the mid-1970s, the Government of India (GO!)
started to give high priority to the development of this fishery, primarily as
a means of raising the productivity and income of the disadvantaged segment of
the population and providing a source of high quality animal protein. Inland
fishery had an advantage over marine fishery because of its accessibility to
many of the large inland oopulation centers.
2.2       In the 1970s, fish farming suppliea only 100,000 tons, out of a
total inland fishery supply of 900,000 tons/year. As a result of the
deterioration of fish habitats in inland waters due to the proliferation of
water control structures, pollution and extensive over-fishing, the prospects
for development of inland capture fisheries appeared to be limited and GOI
began to consider fish farming as the main potent . of future increases in
*nland fish production. A committee, appointed by GOI, to examine the sub-
sector, identified that the practice of short-term leases of ponds (1 to 3
years), shortage of fish seed supply and lack of freshwater fish farming
knowledge were the main constraints. Consequently, upon the recommendation of
the committee, Fish Farmer Development Aguncies (FFDAs) were established as a
pilot scheme in 1975 with the objective of eliminating these constraints,
increasing carp production, raising fish farmers' incomes and creating employ-
ment for the landless in rural areas. These FFDAs were basically replicas of
the Small Farmer Development Agencies which were established in the districts
(one per district) to help the subsistence and small farmers in the rural
areas to increase their production through provision of extension and inputs.



3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The project was conceived to assist GOI and the five participating
states of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in
developing under-utilized freshwater ponds through improved fish farming
practices. This involved the introduction of polyculture techniques with
Indian and Chinese carps in the rural areas. The packages were simple with
stocking rates of up to 5,000 fingerlings/ha, moderati use of supplementary
feed and more extensive use of organic fertilizers to enhance the natural
productivity of the ponds. The main objectives of the project were to:
(i) increase cultured carp production in the participating states, and
(ii) provide a basis for the future commercial development of the carp seed
industry, essential for the increased production of inland fish.
3.2       The project was originally to cover 58 districts in the five
participating states and a total target water area of 117,000 ha. The project
was to utilize existing rural ponds from 0.5 to 5 ha in size, both private and
public (panchayat), which would be improved by deepening them and reconstruct-
ing the embankments as necessary. The ponds are the typical rainfed
multipurpose undrainable ponds found in rural India. To provide the fish seed
necessary for the project ponds, a total of 27 hatcheries (10 and 25 ha in
size) were to be constructed and run by Fisheries Seed Development
Corporations (FSDC) established for that purpose. The hatcheries, with the
associated broodstock and nursery ponds, had to use underground water to
fulfil their requirements. No surface water sources were to be used. The
hatchery design was based on floating basket incubators of small individual
capacity. The nursery and broodstock ponds had to be filled and drained
through a single central canal which also had to be used as a fishing/storage
chamber. To connect these hatcheries with the existing road network, all-
weather approach roads with an average of three km per hatchery were to be
constructed. In the 58 districts, FFDAs were to be established (42) or
strengthened (16) which were to provide extension and to assist the fish
farmers in obtaining long-term (10 years) fish pond leases and institutional
credit for fish pond improvements. Credit was to be provided: (a) to improve
the ponds (which included earthwork for levelling, deepening and shaping the
ponds as needed and construction of inlet and outlet facilities); and (b) for
first year production inputs. To encourage participation of poor farmers, a
subsidy of 25Z of infrastructure and first year costs was included. For the
training of the extension staff required by the FFDAs, new fisheries training
centers needed to be built in West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, while an
existing center had to be strengthened in Madhya Pradesh. Finally, the project
also provided a technical assistance component which included: hatchery
design and management support for a total of 18 man-months; a pilot study for
a possible reservoir management project; and a study to cover inland fish
marketing with particular reference to the project area.
4.   Project Concept, Design and Organization
4.1       The project had a sound conceptual base which was clearly understood
both by the Bank and the Borrower. The main constraints for development of
freshwater fish culture had been correctly identified by the Borrower a few
years before the start of the project, leading to the establishment of FFDAs.
The project concept, as such, was therefore not innovative but during
implementation a very innovative design feature which concerned credit for
pond operation was added: the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural



-3-
evelopmernt (NABARD) suggested in 1984 to participating banks that long-term
lease of ponds should be an acceptable collateral for loans. The introduction
of this particular concept alone became one of the two fundamental pillars to
the success of the project and accelerated the implementation of the pond
development component from that period onwards.
4.2       The project preparation cycle was shortened as the Bank moved from a
sub-sector review-cum-identification, conducted in January/February 1978
(Identification Report dated October 11, 1978), directly into appraisal which
was carried out exactly one year later. This short-cutting of the project
cycle in retrospect contributed to some serious omissions at the design stage
of the project:
(a)   Underestimation of the important differences between participating
states: climatic conditions, breeding period for target species,
aquaculture development status, ownership pattern for ponds, etc.
The differences between participating states were rather strong and
had multiple effects on the project. The rainfall pattern and the
temperature regimes favored West Bengal where, as a result, breeding
of the Indian carp started earlier than in other states. In
landlocked areas like Uttar Pradesh, summer temperatures are so high
that deeper ponds may be required especially when fry are stocked or
when the broodstock is approaching maturity. Frequent summer floods
occurring in North Bihar also modify the stocking patterns, while
farmers prefer late stocking in September which obliously affects
hatchery work and shortens the rearing period. Other differences
were found when relating the management patterns to pond ownership.
There the stronger differences were found between West Bengal, where
private ponds predominate, and Madhya Pradesh where the ponds used
by the project are communal village ponds used for various purposes
like drinking, bathing and washing by the local population. In West
Bengal, the farmers could use as much fish poison (mahua oil cake)
and organic manures as desired, while in Madhya Pradesh using these
inputs was not allowed by villagers. These limitations imposed by
other people using the same pond, strongly reduced the potential
output from ponds in Madhya Pradesh.
(b) Failure to recognize the role that the private sector could play in
seed production.
(c) Failure to recognize the fact that the forecasted seed demand in the
project area would have been mainly for fry rather than fingerlings.
This could have been foreseen: fry is much easier to handle and
transport.
4.3       These cmissions indicated above, in turn, led to the major design
flaws in the project: construction of too large, unsuitable and
inappropriately standardized hatcheries, run by commercially inexperienced
public corporations, the FSDCs. Project hatcheries were to produce a final
product (fingerlings) which had to compete against a far less costly product
(fry) produced by the private sector.
4.4       The project was to be supervised and coordinated by the Central
Project Unit (CPU) established in the Fisheries Department in the Ministry of
Agriculture (MINAG) of GOI. To do the same at policy level, an inter-
ministerial Central Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (CMCC) was to be



establiished also in tIINAG.  The Director of the CPU was also t) bhe the
Secretary of the CMCC to ensure coordination.  Similar proje( t oxecut.ion units
were to he established at state level, the State Project. Units (SPU) and the
State Monitoring and Coordinating Commit tee (SHCC) .  Overall, this institu-
tional set ui) work.d fairLy well.
4.5       At the actual operat ional level, FST)Cs were to be set up to super-
vise the construction and operation of the state hathoeries.  riFDA; wete to
provide extension and assistance to fish farmers in obtaining long.tterm leases
(10 years) and credit. The FFDAs anid the FS)s ;.n each starte were to
coordinate their activities to ensure the supply ofI higi (quality seed to the
fish farmers.  The organization of the FSI)Cs was generally inflated for the
work they were supposed to do, whiLe the FFDA organizational structure was
adequate for their work, although mobility could have been improved.
4.6       NABARI) was put in charge of the overall credit scheme introduced in
the project. The credit under the project was initially only intended for the
project hatcheries under FSDCs, and for pond improvement and first year
production inputs but, after 1985, was extended also for the construction of
hatcheries in the private sector. NABARD refinanced the loans that the
participating banks extended to FSDCs and fish farmers; these banks also
received the subsidies of the Goverrnment which they disbursed to the fish
farmers in proportion of the loan. Except in the initial stages, the credit
organizational set up proved to be quite effective.
4.7       Project timing was excellent as the Borrower had already identi:ied
the main constraints to the development of freshwater fishculture and tested
the viability of the project through a small FFDA scheme which it had success-
fully established in the years leading up to the project. The expansion of
the FFDA scheme which was used as a vehicle for extension of technical
packages and as a main link for obtaining long-term leases and implementing
credit delivery in the project should be considered as the second of the ro
fundamental pillars to the project's success.  The experience obtained through
the FFDA pilot scheme also clarified the roles of the various agencies and
institutions participating in the project, which were therefore clearly
defined and understood. Nevertheless, the need to ensure proper inter-
institutional coordination between the FFDAs, Fisheries Department, Gram
Panchayat authorities and participating banks was not immediately understood
and this led to some considerable delays in implementation.
5.   Prolect Implementation
5.1       During project implementation, the situation differed in several
ways from that anticipated at appraisal. The project experienced:
(i) considerable delays in the construction of the hatcheries as well as in
the launching of the pond development component; (ii) a large cost overrun;
(iii) a significant decrease of the foreign exchange cost component; and
(iv) a market situation for fish seed in which the FSDCs could no longer set
their own prices due to the unanticipated growth of a large private sector
capacity in this field.
5.2       A different technical approach to hatchery de ign, planning smaller
hatcheries (of about 5 ha) to produce fry instead of fingerlings, faster
recruitment of technical staff, in particular for the engineering cell of the
CPU and SPUs, and fewer disputes between the World Bank aquaculturist and the
aquaculture engineering consultant, could have reduced the initial delays in



-5-
the hatchery component.   This dispute arose because of the consultant's
initial recommendations to: (a) alter the hatchery pond design to allow for
separate inlet and outlet canals, instead of a single central canal; and
(b) use a mixed source of water (surface and underground) wherever that was
possible, in view ot the large water requirements of the 10 and 25 ha
hatcheries. The delay in pond development could have been reduced if stronger
emphasis had been placed at appraisal on ensuring inter-institutional
cooruination and if a mechanism had been introduced in the project for
improving project understanding by all parties involved (e.g. specific
workshops at state level). The delay experienced at the beginning of the
project due to the participating banks' reluctance to sanction loans because
of the farmers' lack of collateral, should have been foreseen at appraisal.
In this respect, NABARD's innovative approach to indicate to the participating
banks that long-term leases should be accepted as collateral might then have
been considered.
5.3       Cost overruns could have been limited through a faster implementa-
tion of the project, while the lower foreign exchange component could only
have been partly foreseen at appraisal. The original foreign exchange cost,
in addition to technical assistance, was supposed to include also mainly
aerators and automatic feeding equipment. Aerators were manufactured in India
only just after the project started, while the introduction of automatic feed
equipment in the project was not found to be necessary since labor offered a
preferred alternative.
5.4        The low prices for seed were caused by market forces.  The
unanticipated, but possibly foreseeable, fast development of the private
sector fish seed producers, particularly in West Bengal, flooded the market
with cheaper seed (fry). Fry was supplied by the West Bengali producers also
to the other project states, where it was delivered on the spot and entered
the market earlier than the seed supplied by FSDCs; West Bengal has better
natural condition for seed production. A deeper understanding of the sector
at appraisal should have anticipated this event and directed the project
design more towards private enterprise. However, this would also have implied
a lonver project cycle.
5.5       The project faced two major risks which were correctly identified:
(a) untried managerial competence for the FSDCs and (b) underground water
availability in Madhya Pradesh. The action at appraisal to limit the risk for
untried managerial competence of the FSDCs involved the provision of a
hatchery management consultant for only nine months intermittently. The
consultant was to train local hatchery operating staff for the first one or
two hatcheries in each state prior to their completion and would assist with
their start-up operation. He would also be employed during the project
implementation period for consultation on special operational problems. For
this, the time allocated for the consultant was to little by far. A period of
four years would have been more appropriate.
5.6       The risk of limited supplies of underground water in Madhya Pradesh
was circumvented at appraisal by the assurances of the State Government that
the hatcheries to be built would have ready access to surface water. However,
this was not fully complied with, resulting in an impaired performance by one
of the hatcheries.
5.7       The strong intervenition of the pzivate sector in seed production
could also have been cor, idered as a risk element in the project, as it was



designed to cater only for the public FSDCs. However, the mission considers
it more a serious design flaw since private sector participation in seed
production should have been encouraged by the project. The unexpected
emergence of private sector fry producers turned out, however, to be extremely
opportune since there could have been a serious seed supply problem in the
project during a crucial period when the seed demand increased rapidly and the
project public sector hatcheries were not yet completed. The private sector
had built up its seed production capacity concurrently, due to the improvement
of traditional seed production techniques, underestimated at appraisal, and to
the introduction of the more efficient hatchery design for mass production
promoted by the West Bengal Fisheries Department. It was this event that
allowed the project to continue and accelerate the pond development component.
5.8       Besides the acceptance of the long leases of ponds as collateral,
some other decisions taken in the course of project implementation have had an
important favorable impact on project execution: (i) the extension of the
project beyond 1985 when disbursement was a mere 32Z, but prospects had become
more positive; (ii) the decision in 1984 to expand the number of districts
from 58 to 95 which broadened the project base.
5.9       On the other hand, the Bank's persistence during implementation to
stick rigidly to the appraisal design of the hatcheries component caused
considerable delays and resulted in financially unviable FSDCs. The
concurrent rapid growth of fish seed production that was taking place in West
Bengal was then already known, as illustrated by the documentation of the
National Fish Seed Congress which took place in 1984. On purely commercial
grounds, this was a serious threat for the FSDCs. Therefore in 1983-84, when
the majority of the project hatcheries were still to be built, the decision
should have been taken to modify the strategy for fish seed production and
amend the hatchery component. However, not only the World Bank but also the
CMCC ignored the warning lights and decided to carry on with the construction
of the hatcheries as originally conceived.
6.   Project Results
6.1       Without any hesitation, it can be claimed that the main objective of
the project, to increase carp production, exceeded the target set at
appraisal. On the basis of available data, it has been estimated that the
incremental annual production in 1988 reached 220,000 tons and would stabilize
at about 260,000 tons at full development. This increase was due to: (i) an
expansion of the water area (from 117,000 ha of ponds at appraisal to a total
of over 160,000 ha); and (ii) the rapid growth of private sector fish seed
production.
6.2       The second objective, to previde a basis for commercial development
of the carp seed industry, was also achieved, although not as envisaged at
appraisal. The carp seed industry in the project area had been established
mainly by the private sector of West Bengal. Nevertheless, the project, to a
certain extent, can also claim the credit for this development. Although
formally excluded from the project, private sector investors engaged in carp
seed production were strongly encouraged by: (i) the pond development
component of the project which generated a high demand for this product; and
(ii) the State Fisheries Department (SFD) of West Bengal which promoted more
efficient seed production techniques.



-7-
6.3       Only half of the originally planned seed production target aimed for
by the FSDCs at full development (about 450 million fingerlings or 900 million
fry) is expected to be reached in 1995/96. There are several reasons for this:
(a) the project built fewer hatcheries (17) than planned at appraisal (27);
(b) most of the hatcheries were still under construction during the last three
years of the project and would reach full production towards the mid-1990s;
(c) hatchery management can be considered rather poor due to lack of
experienced local personnel, not properly trained to run the large-size
commercial hatcheries; (d) the gap in fish seed supply has been rapidly filled
by the private sector, creating strong cc-r,-tition for the FSDCs.
6.4       The actual ERR has been esti,a        .uch higher at project completion
(65Z) than at appraisal (42Z).  The mLi:.  ~son for the difference is due to
the much higher fish prices actually oh:  ,ie   c pond sites (about
Rs 8.50/kg)l/ than those estimated at appra.6al (Rs 4/kg). Another reason is
the coverage of the larger water area. The6e positive factors have more than
offset the effects of the negative ones, such as the project cost overrun and
the delay in implementation.
6.5       The difference in the FRR for the actual fish pond farm model (over
100Z) and those estimated at appraisal (55% for the most lucrative model) is
attributable to higher fish prices and a much better adaptation of costs by
the farmer. The farmer initially applied the model as suggested by the FFDA
and thereafter modified it to suit him better in terms of cost and of market-
able fish size. One example relates to the FFDA's suggestion for batch
harvesting: one harvest per year. The farmer modified this by periodic
(mainly monthly) harvesting after the fish reach the minimal market size, and
seeding, which allows him to regularly supply the market, which implies
regular income and a better use of the pond. Another example of the farmers
adaptive techniques is to initially overstock the ponds with over 20,000
.ry/ha and thinning out the stock after 4-6 weeks, selling a part of the
flngerlings and keeping the remainder to reach full marketable size. through
this exercise, the farmer uses the pond for nursing as well as rearing, which
again implies a more economical use of the pond.
6.6       The financial performance of the project hatcheries so far has been
under par. The FRR estimated at closing was negative, while the appraisal
estimate was 22Z for the 10 ha hatchery and 37X for the 25 ha hatchery. Most-
of the reasons for this poor performance have already been mentioned in the
previous paragraphs: poor farm management, poor site selection, large over-
heads even before the hatcheries came into operation, and finally lower seed
prices than expected at appraisal due to the strong competition from the
private sector.
6.7       The overall impact of the project should be considered as highly
positive. At macro level the project resulted in a substantial increase in
fish supply (about 260,000 mt), and an important employment generation effort
(for over 200,000 people). It further contributed to the foundation of a new
fish seed ind':btry in the country and benefitted lower income groups (over
46,000 farmers in the schedulrd castes and over 3,500 in scheduled tribes). A
clear illustration of the project's success is the fact that the FFDA scheme
1/   Prices (all in 1981 Rupees) quoted by States--the lowest price was
Rs 6/kg in Uttar Pradesh and the highest Rs 10/kg in West Bengal.



has now been introduced into other states; the total number of districts under
the present FFDA scheme is 300.
6.8       Finally, another element of the project's successful impact has been
the demonstration of the favorable impact of the private sector involvement
(no doubt with Government help) without which the project would not have been
able to perform so successfully. Thus the joint efforts of Government
institutions and private sector in the project should serve as an example that
such a cooperation can result in highly successful ventures.
6.9       Training of farmers (about 168,000) through courses of 14 days, with
accommodation provided by the SFDs was more than well received. Training of
the extension officers (about 900) which lasted up to nine months was held at
the training centers provided by the project and already existing ones, has
also been successful. Composite culture techniques are now widely understood
and practiced by a large number of farmers. More balanced techn_cal packages
suitable under the prevailing conditions and simple enough to be readily
adopted by the farmers after limited training, have been promoted by the
FFDAs.
6.10      Hatchery design, as proposed by the project, did not prove suitable
for local conditions. New types of hatcheries for mass production of spawn
(circular type based on a Chinese design) were tested and found simpler to
operate, more reliable and appropriate for local conditions, and were widely
adopted.
6.11      There was no adverse environmental impact as the project utilized
mainly existing rainfed ponds or tanks, which were undrainable.  Nevertheless,
at least in theory, the promotion of hatchery development by the project
should have had a positive environmental impact through reducing fishing
pressure on spawn and fry in rivers and floodplains. Once farmers would be
accustomed to utilizing high quality classified fish seed from hatcheries to
stock their ponds, they would no longer desire the inferior quality mix that
is normally obtained from the wild.
6.12      On the institutional side, the major impact of the project concerned
the local banks, which now have a much better understanding of freshwater
aquaculture. Their attitude towards lending for fish culture projects has
Improved significantly since the start of the project and so far no loan
recovery problems have been reported.
6.13      The project has also had an unfavorable impact on the Government's
budget. It envisaged a subsidy programme that was to be given only to the
poor farmer to encourage him to take up fish farming. The subsidy covered up
to 25% of the sum of the investment cost for pond improvement and the first
year input cost. The subsidy had a dual effect: one, it encouraged the
farmer to take up fish farming and second, the local bank to which the farmer
applied for a loan considered the subsidy that was channelled through the bank
as the farmer's contribution. The result was that the farmer could take up
fish farming without any equity. There is doubt that this programme
contributed to the poor farmer participation in the project and at a first
glance one would conclude that these subsidies had a positive impact. However,
there are several aspects to this programme that may have strongly offset the
positive impact:



- 9-
(a) all farmers participated and not only the poor received this
subsidy;
(b) no cost recovery mechanism was introduced.
The cost incurred for this programme undoubtedly had a negative effect on the
Government's budget which was already burdened by the FFDA cost for which no
cost recovery mechanism was introduced either. To give a conclusive judgement
on the net effect of the subsidy programme is too difficult at this stage:
one does not know how the project would have progressed without subsidy.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1       Project sustainability is ensured since:  (i) GOI has expanded the
FFDA scheme into new areas of the country; (ii) the fish seed commercial
industry is now well established in the country; and (iii) the local banks
have no qualms in granting loans to the freshwater fish farming sub-sector.
7.2       Factors which could possibly affect the outcome of the project
concern the eventual saturation of local fish markets in India (which appears
remote in the short-term) and a poor loan repayment performance which could
make banks reluctant to participate any further. It is therefore important to
increase the FFDA extension efforts to assist the participating banks in the
loan recovery exercise, although there is no other evidence at this stage than
the general poor loan recovery ratio in the overall agricultural sector.
7.3       Regarding the market side, it should be noted that West Bengal has
still the most important freshwater fish market and so far still imports from
neighboring project states. A saturation of the West Bengal market would have
an impact on prices, particularly on those of the other participating states.
A positive element in this scenario is the gradual country-wide shift in
consumption patterns from vegetarian to non- vegetarian.
7.4       Although the subsidy programme had a negative effect on the Govern-
ment's budget, its impact on the project as such was positive. It is
questionable whether the subsidy programme as applied was really necessary in
view of the high returns fresh fish farming has accrued and, the fact that
this has been disseminated throughout the project area. The number of
applicants that now wish to join the programme Is quite substantial and it is
sure that the number of pond leases will increase, in view of the high
returns. There would therefore clearly be no economic need to continue with
the subsidies. However, there may be a social need but GOI should only apply
the programme to the poorer farmers, and a mechanism should be built in
whereby the Government can recuperate the cost incurred. Nevertheless, if
Government wishes at this stage to remove all subsidies, the sustainability
and expansion of this project would not be affected; only the poor may not be
able to benefit from the programme.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       Bank performance should be praised for its adoption of the sound
project concept identified by the Borrower.  Other strong points in the Bank's
performance have been the list of sensible conditionalities for credit
effectiveness and the soundness of the conditions set for approval of the
various extensions of the closing date, which induced GOI to see the project



-10-
through with a greater commitment. The Bank's involvement could therefore
also be seen as a catalyst to development.
8.2       There were, however, some weaknesses in the Bank's performance both
in design and in implementation. The former was due to insufficient prepara-
tion work which in turn resulted in: (i) a lack of sufficient consideration
for the characteristic differences between states; (ii) the neglect of the
role that the private sector could play in fish seed production; and
(iii) unsuitable design of hatcheries. An excessive rigidity applied by the
Bank during implementation prevented it from agreeing to modifications in the
design of the hatchery component when It became evident that this was
necessary.
8.3       The Bank's performance during supervision could have been improved:
(i) frequency of visits was generally insufficient, even according to the Bank
standards, except at mid-term; (ii) missions adopted a very rigid approach in
relation to project design, at least until 1984-85 when the original closing
date of the project was approaching; and (iii) missions concerned themselves
mainly with disbursement issues and with the construction of physical
infrastructure and totally disregarded any analysis of project performance.
8.4       Lessons to be learned from this experience are:
(a) project preparation is an essential stage within the project cycle
and should not be skipped, even in cases when the project concept
is generally sound and particularly for projects covering large and
diverse areas;
(b) for projects introducing new technologies in a country, a pilot
phase or a small-scale initial phase should be considered, to test
design; or alternatively, if introduced on a large-scale, the
design should allow the maximum degree of flexibility to ensure
that eventual errors could be corrected during implementation;
(c) possibilities for the participation or involvement of the private
sector should not be ignored but encouraged; in this case, private
sector involvement would have reduced the cost and would have
resulted in a more efficient use of resources;
(d) supervision missions should give more emphasis to actual project
performance in terms of achievement of project objectives rather
than restricting their analyses to disbursement. They should have a
very flexible approach to accommodate possible corrections due to
errors introduced at design stage or to the need to adapt to
changing conditions;
(e) appraisal and supervision should preferably not be carried out with
the same expert; a change of experts may highlight different issues
and would increase flexibility during implementation.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       There are several positive elements in the Borrower's performance:
(i) the identification of the main constraints which impeded development of
freshwater fish culture; (ii) the selection of the FFDA concept as a vehicle
for extension to develop freshwater aquaculture; (iii) FFDAs' performance



-11.-
during the project implementation; and (iv) NABARD's role and particularly its
innovative suggestion to participating banks to accept long-term leases as
collateral. The Borrower's weaknesses concerned: (a) staff recruitment and
length of time required for appointments; (b) inter-institutior.al coordination
at the initial stage; (c) monitoring, evaluation and record keeping; and
(d) management capability to run large-scale commercial hatcheries.
9.2       In the project design phase, the role of the Borrower consisted
mainly in providing a sound concept and a clear identification of the major
constraints for the sector, as well as in supplying the basic data on water
areas available in the participating states. In relation to the hatchery
component, they relied entirely on the World Bank team and did not contribute
to the selection of the design since it involved a technology in which they
had relatively little experience at commercial level.
9.3       During the implementation of the project, management at state level
had a varying degree of success. The FSDCs in general performed poorly while
the FFDAs were generally effective, possibly due to the experience accumulated
in the years prior to project implementation and to the successful extension
package. At the central level, the CMCC played a coordinating role which also
allowed an exchange of information between the participating states but did
not guide the project effectively. Staff deployment was also poor, generally
not following what had been established at appraisal. Even the CPU continued
with its previous work as the Inland Fisheries Group within the Fisheries
Department, but this did not affect project work perhaps because of CPU's
coordinating rather than executive role. The engineer's position was the only
new position established in that unit.
9.4       Due to the poor performance of the FSDCs which resulted in heavy
financial losses, the state governments transferred revenue earning activities
from other Government departments (such as reservoir leasing), to FSDC, which
although understandable did not coincide with the project agreement. The
Government explained that this had been done to avoid subsidizing the FSDCs,
apparently not realizing that there is little difference between subsidizing
the operation and transferring money-making activities from Government to the
FSDCs.
9.5       Deployment of consultants was in general done effectively, although
difficulties were experienced with the Rajasthan Government in initiating the
reservoir pilot study which delayed the commencement of this activity.
9.6       The lessons to be learned by the Bank mentioned before should, in
principle, also apply to the Borrower. Another important lesson to be learnt-
by the Borrower from this experience is that it should seriously consider
establishing mechanisms for the more rapid appointment of staff in investment
projects, and include a cost recovery mechanism in projects that have a
potential of becoming very profitable.
10. Project Relationship
10.1      Project relationships were limited to those between the Bank and the
Borrower. No other parties were involved in the execution of the project. In
the first four years, the Bank's role vis-a-vis the Borrower tended to be too
autocratic. This relationship improved during the extension of the project
when suggestions originating from the Borrower were more readily accepted by
the Bank. The initial rigid position of the Bank was partly responsible for



-12-
the delays and the poor performance of the hatchery component. The lesson
which could be learnt from this experience is that an effort should be made on
the side of the Bank to refrain from continuously Imposing decisions against
better judgement and for the Borrower to be less passive, when the facts show
that the wrong strategy is being applied. The relationship of the Bank with
NABARD was excellent, but this could be expected because of their long
standing connections.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Consulting services were required for hatchery design and manage-
ment, for an inland fisheries marketing study and for a reservoir management
pilot project.
11.2      For the hatchery design and management, external consultants were
recruited. The consultant engineer was constrained by a pre-established
hatchery design, in terms of size, pond and hatchery outlay and water supply
system. Initially, he tried to modify the pond and water supply design, quite
justifiably so. His proposals were rejected by the World Bank technicians,
who insisted on continuing with the appraisal design. Nevertheless, the
Orissa State Project Unit followed the consultant's recommendations on water
supply and Orissa now has the best hatcheries of the project, although the
FSDCs running these hatcheries are still making a loss due to high overheads
and the low price of seed. On the other hand, many of the cement structures
designed by the consultant for all the hatcheries, such as water gates, were
far too massive and expensive for 0.5 ha ponds.
11.3      Out of the total nine man-months programmed for the hatchery
engineer consultant, only 4.5 months were utilized. Moreover, the time
allocated for this consultancy was too short considering the number of
hatcheries envisaged by the project. Also a considerable amount of time was
lost in arguments between World Bank technicians and the consultant who was
initially supported by the Government on his proposals to modify the technical
design of the hatcheries.
11.4      The hatchery management consultant visited India for only two months
instead of the nine months planned at appraisal, which was far from sufficient
considering the number of project hatcheries and the total lack of hatchery
management experience in India. In this context, It should be noted that the
Governme.it neglected to fully utilize the consultant's time allocated to the
project. Moreover, the consultant's first visit took place too early, before
any of the hatcheries had yet been built.
11.5      The project also included two local consultancies.  One was for the
preparation of an inland fisheries marketing study. The other concerned a
pilot project on reservoir management, which was intended to be used for the
preparation of a new investment project. The first consultancy which resulted
in a lengthy document on the inland fisheries sector in India has had no
impact on project operations. The reservoir study suffered considerable
delays. Moreover, the World Bank did not wait for its completion and
initiated the preparation of a reservoir development project which was not
taken up for financing. The pilot study therefore became somewhat redundant.



-13-
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The appraisal report certainly provided an acceptable framework for
both the Bank and the Borrower during project implementation. In practical
terms, it was iaterpreted too rigidly both by the World Bank and the CMCC, in
spite of some reservations raised by State Project Units regarding the
hatchery component. The legal agreements for the project were generally well
thought out and provided a useful framework for project implementation.
12.2      Not all data relevant to the PCR preparation were readily available.
Most data related to disbursement and construction were available while only
some were provided on actual project output, fish prices and production
models. Data readily available were sometimes inconsistent and had to be
re-examined and sorted out.
12.3      For future similar operations, both the supervision missions and the
project authorities should agree in advance on what type of data should be
collected during project implementation, on the basis of which the project
could be analyzed and managed more effectively. The same data could also be
used for the preparation of the Project Completion Report.



-15-
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF FACTUAL INFORMATION IN PART III
1.       The overall achievement of the Inland Fisheries Project is note-
worthy, despite delays in start-up, and delays on civil works and technical
aspects of the hatchery component. The Inland Fisheries Project provided
employment for an incremental 200,000 people, of which 46,000 are in the
scheduled castes and over 3,500 in scheduled tribes. The area of inland
fisheries increased from 117,000 ha to 160,000 ha. Most noteworthy is that
inland fish production increased by about 220,000 tons and will stabilize
at about 260,000 tons at full development.
2.       The technical achievements have been the result of the encourage-
ment from the Project.  New hatchery designs were originaliy introduced
into India based on the Hungarian model later revised based on the China
model, as a result of the technical assistance furnished through super-
vision.
3.       The infrastructure developed, particularly the private fish seed
industry and the spread of FFDA system, has promoted the growth of the
industry throughout the Project States, by providing outlets for disease-
free spawn and fry. The Project also furnished a well trained extension
staff, who not only assisted pond holders with a new technical package, but
provided them with access to a new credit system. This new credit system
was initiated in the Project by accepting long leases on ponds as colla-
teral for credit to poor and scheduled cast beneficiaries.
4.       The country data defining the project profile at completion is
presented in Part III. This was prepared by the Government of India and
the various States' Department of Fishery, and discussed thoroughly in the
field. This data is collated as items 1-4 in Part III and was cross-
checked with the field tables. The data is accurate.
B. EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
5.       While the Bank had designed a practical project, it was generally
felt that the preparation period for the basic project design could have
been somewhat longer, taking into consideration a greater degree of benefi-
ciary input. Also, it was felt the Bank could have taken a more flexible
approach to the technology to be adopted, and give greater consideration to
the possible role of the private sector. Bank personnel were recognized as
professional, and most mission members were highly qualified in their
respective fields. Consultants that were hired during the Project were
generally competent. However, on a few occasions, the timing of their
visits was miscalculated, input and the length of time allocated too
limited, causing some gap in the technical assistance input.



-16-
6.       One of the important components was to establish hatcheries early
in the project cycle, which was crucial for the expansion of the inland
fishery industry and for the production gains hoped for under the project.
It was felt that the Bank could have been more flexible in its determina-
tion of the design of the hatcheries and other project components, using
local conditions (rather than mid-European designs). The Bank also should
have been more concerned with identifying and reviewing water quality
(input and output channels) and availability of water for hatcheries from
more than one source. This should have been done in the preparation stage
or early in the project implementation, before the designs of the hatch-
eries were to be approved. There were occasions, when there was disagree-
ment between the Bank's aquaculturalist and the aquaculture engineering
consultant. As a result, the project was delayed by over two years in
sending out bid documents for the hatcheries. The appraisal design aimed
to use one channel for inlet and outlet canals, while the consultant wanted
to use two channels. It was later agreed with the supervising officer that
two channels were indeed a better technological choice as water quality
could more easily be monitored. The second disagreement between the
consultant and the Bank's aquaculturalist was the sourcing of water needs
for the hatcheries. The Bank insisted on using only groundwater as the
source for water. The consultant and the State and technicians of each
State participating viewed the need too great to only rely on sourcing from
groundwater.
7.       The Project supervisors insisted on producing fingerlings and fry
through the State Hatcheries. This placed the competitive advantage with
the private sector hatcheries, as they sell fry only and at far lower
prices than for fingerlings. Farmers were not yet sophisticated enough (as
in China) to see the advantages of fingerlings even though they were far
more expensive. The FFDAs were not getting the message to pond operators
that fingerlings provided higher yields because of their shorter grow-out
periods and less mortality from predators.
8.       Another major component that the Bank should have placed more
emphasis was the encouragement of the private sector in the hatchery
business. This was not originally in the preparation or design of the
project; nor was there an incentive program in the early years to encourage
the private sector. The Bank should have included a private scheme in the
form of a pilot project, as the private sector had already successfully
demonstrated their ability with hatchery activities. At the time of the
Project, the Bank concentrated its effort on state sector activities and
the investment thrust was not sufficiently oriented toward the private
sector.
9.       Bank efforts in financing the training, 69,565 fish farmers in
West Bengal alone, have had a primary effect on production.
10.      Bank efforts in setting the Fish Farmer Development Agencies
(FFDA) had a positive impact to tie-in extension and credit. As a result,
the participating banks were initially hesitant to lend, found fish farming
a lucrative crop with beneficiaries having good repayment records. The
training period of FFDAs, however, may have been too academic and could
have been shortened. The Bank should have been more involved in the prepa-
ration of the curriculum and should have recommended pragmatic rather than
scientific courses.



-17-
11.      The States were all of the opinion that the subsidies allowed
under the project should continue, as the farmers were very poor and still
below the poverty line.
C. EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
12.      The implementation of the project was slowed as it did not take
into consideration that purchase of land for hatchery would take so long.
However, the performance of the participating institutions in overall
project planning and implementation was good.
13.      The short-term leasing system (year to year) was a major obstacle
in developing inland fisheries. However, the Project introduced long-term
leases which were used as collateral for loans and this accelerated the
process of credit availability.
14.      The States were able to identify and expand suitable water areas
for inland fisheries.
15.      The main lesson learned is that the private sector is a vital and
important conduit and vehicle for inland fishery development.  This was
particularly true for the individual ponds and hatcheries.
VW-7



-39-.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans
There are no Bank loans related to the Inland Fisheries Project
(Credit No. 963-IN).
2.   Project Timetable
Date                  Dates                 Actual
Item                 Planned La             Revised                 Date
Identification        Jan./Feb. 1978                              Jan./Feb. 1978 /b
Preparation /c             -
Appraisal             Jan./Feb. 1979                -             Jan./Feb. 1979 /d
Post Appraisal        May/June 1979                -              May/June 1979
Loan Negotiations   October 1979                    -             October 1979
Board Approval        December 13, 1979            -              December 13, 1979
Loan Signature        January 18, 1980              -             January 18, 1980
Loan/Credit           April 17, 1980          May 17, 1980        May 5, 1980
Effectiveness
Loan Closing          September 30, 1985    Sept. 30, 1986/   Sept. 30, 1988
87/88
Loan Completion       March 15, 1986          Sept. 30, 1986/   March 16, 1989
87/88
/a   No IEPS was available to the mission; the planned dates recorded here
were derived from project files.
/b   Identification Report dated October 11, 1978.
/c   No preparation was carried out for this project.
/d   Appraisal Report dated November 16, 1979.
Comments:
No issues were raised at any stages of the project cycle, although
two risks were identified at appraisal. One concerned the hatcheries of the
FSDCs which were new ventures and for which managerial competence was not
available in India. The risk identified was related to the time that this
managerial skill had to be built. The time envisaged at appraisal could have
been estimated too optimistically. To limit this risk, the project included a
hatchery management consultant, but the time planned was too short; moreover,
the Government did not even fully utilize the consultant's allocated time to
the project. As a consequence, the project hatcheries' management has still
not reached the required level of competence.
The second risk identified at appraisal concerned the limited
supplies of groundwater available in Madhya Pradesh for the project hatcheries
envisaged in that state.  This risk was sufficiently anticipated at appraisal
but the project did not entirely follow the action suggested at appraisal and
this affected the project's achievement.



-20-
3.   Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Dlsburoements
1981  1982  1983  1984  1986  1986  1987  1988  1989
- -            ------ US  I io- =
Appraisal Estimate 0.40  1.83  4.80 10.60 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00
Actual           0.36  0.93  1.87  3.30  8.12  9.49 12.63 16.456 19.36
Actual as X of    90.00 60.82 38.96 31.13 30.60 47.46 62.86 82.26 96.76
Eat imated
4.   Project Implementation
Appraisal
Indicators                           Unit           Estimate         Actual la
FSDC hatcheries (10-2i ha)    million fry Lb             870 Lc          514 /d
Eco-hatcheries   (1-1.5 ha)    million spawn               0 Le        2,300
Area developed                        ha             117,000         161,773
FFDAs                               number                58 /f            95 /f
Fish pond credit                  1980 Rs '000      113,300          204,650 L/
La   Most of the actual achievements were obtained in the three-year extension
period of the project (1985-88).
/b   Expected output per hatchery is 2 million fry per hectare.
/c   Eleven hatcheries of 25 ha and 16 of 10 ha each.
/d   Four hatcheries of 25 ha, one of 14 ha, one of 13 ha and ten of 10 ha
each.
/e   Private sector eco-hatcheries were included in the fish pond credit
component only after the extension of the project (after 1985); any two
number could be financed.
/f   Including 16 existing ?FDAs that needed strengthening.
Lg   The SAR estimate is In 1981 Rupees (see footnote on currency equivalents
on front page of report); the actual estimate is in current Rupees over
the project period and was difficult to transfer accurately in 1981
Rupees. It was therefore assumed that the fish pond credit amount
recorded at the closing date of the project (Rs 325.6 million) was spent
entirely in 1987/88; on this basis, the credit amount spent was brought
back to 1981 Rupees.



-21-
5.   Project cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
(USS million)
Appraisal Estimate /a               Actual
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Ex,chane                     Exchange
Hatcheries                13.6      0.5       14.1      10.5        -      10.5
Approach roads             5.2      0.2        5.4       0.5        -       0.5
Fish pond credit         13.2        -        13.2      21.3 lb    -       21.3 Lb
FFDAs                      5.5      0.2        5.7      32.4 /c    -       32.4 /c
Training centers           1.7      0.1        1.8       1.6        -       1.6
Technical assistance /d       0.4   0.2        0.6       0.3      0.3       0.6
Total                  39.6       1.2       40.8      66.6      0.3      66.9
la   Discrepancies due to rounding: contingencies included in the components.
Lb   The actual amount recorded by Government as Rs 270 million but no data
were available on the annual breakdown and no accurate actual expenditure
for this component could therefore be calculated isL USS. However, of
this Rs 270 million, the amount claimed from IDA as Rs 148,339,118 for
which US$728,845.92 were paid by IDA over the eight year project life.
This average exchange rate was therefore also appliedI in the total
expenditure in Rupees for this component which res.i-ted in the above
quoted expenditure in US$.
Jc   Subsidies for pond improvement and first year ir.pul.s which amounted to up
to 25% of the sum of these costs.
/d   Includes studies and consultancies.  In the actual ennenditures, it also
includes 'Overseas Training' which was added to the .oject at the final
stage.
Comments:
Only the hatchery component was less costly than ,iredicted at
appraisal. This was mainly due to the difference in the number of hatcheries
actually constructed and the number planned at appraisal (17 against 27),
although the actual cost per individual hatchery was higher than estimated at
appraisal. The costs of the fish pond credit component and particularly the
FFDA component have been significantly higher than their costs estimated   at
appraisal. The fish pond credit component was affected by the larger water
area actually covered (166,000 ha rather than 117,000 ha) and the actual
higher pond improvement unit cost (up to Rs 5O,OOO/ha rather than up to Rs
6,0001ha). The cost overrun of the FFDA component was caused by the increase
in the number of districts covered (95 rather than 58), the length of the
actual project implementation was eight rather than five years (FFDA cost
corusists mainly of recurrent expenditures) and the larger amount quoted to the
farmers in subsidies (subsidies were granted to all participating farmers
rather than to the poor ones only as was intended at appraisal).



-  -
B.  Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source        Hatcheries   Approach   Fish Pond   FFDAs   Training   Technical
(Public)      Roads      Credit               Centers    Assistance
IDA              2.8           0.4        11.7       2.8       1.0          0.6
Domestic         7.7           0.1         9.6       29.6      0.6           -
/a  Includes subsidies for pond improvement and first year inputs.
6.   Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators          Unit      Appraisal    Estimated at /a    Estimated at
Estimate      Closing Date      Full Development
Incremental fish   metric   200,000 ]b        222,000             258,000
production           ton
Farmers trained    farmer    50,000           168,519             168,519 /c
/a   It should be noted that the project was extended for three years and that
the above benefits have been obtained mainly in the extended
period.
Jb   Appraisal estimate was based on a significantly lower pond yield in the
'no project' situation than the one found in the 'actual' situation.
/c   All farmers concerned with the project area have already undergone
training.



-23-
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate          \ctual Estimate
Economic Rate of Return                   42Z                       65X
Underlying Assumptions:
The economic analysis at completion as well as the SAR was based on
actual and estimated financial data respectively. The SAR applied: (i) a
foreign exchange premium of 1.16 (Rs 10 per US$1.00) for the expected foreign
exchange component of the project; and (ii) a shadow wage rate of 70Z of the
financial wage rate. At project completion these modifications were not
applied. First, the actual project cost did not include any significant
foreign exchange expenditure except for technical assistance which contributed
less than one percent to the total project cost. Second, the labor cost for
the construction part of the project could have been modified but since it was
difficult to gather the accurate data, and the economic rate of return on the
financial cost was already significantly better than the one estimated at
appraisal, there was little to be gained by making an estimate of the economic
labor cost for the economic analysis.
An important factor that should be noted is that the economic
analysis under the SAR was based on the same yield, cost and prices for the
entire project, although it was to be implemented in five different states
with different agro-climates and under different economic circumstances. At
the project completion stage, yields, costs and prices for each State were
applied and the economic rate of return for each state was estimated
separately. The ERR for the entire project was estimated on the aggregate
cost and benefits of these states. As a point of interest, the ERR for each
state showed that West Bengal had an ERR of 52Z, Orissa 60% and the other
states over 100Z.
The considerable difference in the ERR is to be attributed to the
difference in fish price at the pond site at appraisal and in the actual
situation. The actual price brought back to 1981 values was more than double
the price estimated at appraisal.



C. Flnancial Impact
SAR                      Actual
FSDC   FisW_Farm Models    FSOC  _FiTsh Farm Model Lo
A     C -
Finoncial Rate of Return    21         66   41   27      negotive       over 100F
Other Financial Indicators
Value of annual incremental  1980 Re e77 million lb    1981 Re 2,313 million lb
carp production
Value of annual incremental   1980 Re 39 million  L          1981 Re 36 million lb
fingerling production
Fiscal Impact                                                     negative LC
la    The SAR models A, B and C were in fact not applied, but strongly modified by either the
FFDA or the farmers themselves. For each of the states, the actual prevailing model was
used as a base for the estimate of the financial rate of return.
/b    At full development, which is expected to be reached in Year 12 or 13, rather than as
foreseen in the SAR in Year 8 or 7.
/c    GOI and State Government finances have so far been affected unfavorably by the project.
The financial burden of Government subsidies and the relatively large cost of extension
work (FFDA) have not been compensated by any levy or tax on revenues, since the project wes
aimed mainly towards the poor in the project states.
D. Studies
Preparation of a           The study was conceived         Completed.  The         The study has been
possible reservoir         to test whether the             follow-up project      followed up by a
management project         composite fish culture          was prepared            project financed by
technology based on high       before the study        EEC.
quality carp fingerlings       was completed but
would be suitable for          not followed
exploiting small               through by the WB
reservoirs and lake            which did not
resources in India.  If        agree with
successful, this study         Government's
would be used as a basis        intention to
for a feasibility study         involve
on the exploitation of         cooperatives in
these resources.               the exploitation
of the reservoirs.
Inland Fish                Additional funding was          Completed.             No impact.  Fish
Marketing Study            provided to an on-going                                marketing in the
study on marketing of                                  project has never
marine fish to extend it                               been a problem.
to cover freshwater fish.



7.    Status of Covenants
Covenant                      Subject          Deadline for Compliance                Status
Loan/Credit \greement   (All major covenants were complied with - see Appendix A for detells)
8.     Use of Bank Resources
A. Stff Inputs
Stago of Prooct Cyclo  Pwo-FY78 FY78  FY79  FY8O  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90 Total
Preappralsal           2 4   46  24 7                                                                     31 7
Appra a                          102 7  15 5                                                              118.2
NegotlaUons                              95                                                                9.5
supervson                               318   286  262  25.1  11 8  16.8  18.6      5   5.5              175.2
Prole Cxxrileuon                                                                               47   5.8  10.5
Totals               2.4   4.6  127.4  62.6  28.6  26.2  25.1  11.8  '6.8  18 8    5   5.5   4.7   5.8  345.1
St"g. of Project Cycle    M          No. of   Days in   Sp eieli-    Performance  Types of
*iiorF   Persons    M         _zaion          Rating     Pr-eFS
Represented /a      aus /b L 
- Through Appraisal /d
- Appraisal through
Board Approval /d
- Board Approval t rough
Effectiveness /d
Supervision 1              1-2/81        4        24       A,C,E,F             2          m
Supervision 2                2/82        8        24        A,C,E              2         M,F
Supervision a            9-10/82         8        14        A,C,E              2         M,F
Supervision 4                6/88        a        19        A,C,E              2         M,F
Supervision 6               10/8B       2         19         A,E               2         P,O
Suporvision 6             8-9/84        a         11        A,F,C              2         O,M
Supervision 7                6/86        1        13          A                1 /e       , M L0
Supervision 8               10/86 L    n.s.       n.s.       n.s.              2         O,M
Supervision 9                4/80      n.s.       n.s.       n.s.              2          0
Supervision 10               9/87      n.s.       n.a.       n.e.              2          0
/a  A = Aquacultural Specialist; C a Credit Specialist; E r Engineer; F = Fishery
Economist; S = Fishery Specialist
b  1 = Problm free or minor problems; 2 = Moderato problems; a = Major problems.
c F = Financial; M = Managerial; T = Technical; P = Political; 0 = Others.
Data not available.
e Problems free, except in Bihar.
;   Due to change of Form 690-1979 to Form 690-1986, detailed data pertaining to this
table were not availablo for the period after June 1985.



PAGE 1
INDI.
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Covenants
COUNTRY: INDIA            PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT              L/C NO: C09630    FY- 8f    TECHNICAL DIV: 26820
SECTOR Dlv. 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL  ReVISED
AGMT SECTION    1/      DATE       DATE    DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT             COMMENTS
ARDC  2 08    UK                            ARDC TO, IN RESPECT OF EACH
STATE. FURNISH A BANKING PLAN
TO THE ASSOCIATION
4.02    UK                           AUDITED ACCOUNTS TO IDA WITH-
IN 4 MONTHS AFTER END EACH
FISCAL YEAR (ARDC)
- ARDC (NOW NABARD) (OVERALL)
4.03    OK                            PARTICIPATING BANKS TO SEND
AUDITED ACCTS TO ASSN wITHIN
4 MONTHS AFTER END EACH FV
- PARTICIPATING BANKS
(SEPARATE LOAN ACC.)
BIHR  2 03A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/8  BIHAR TO LSTABLISH AND MAIN-
TAIN THE STATE MONITORING AND
COORDINATING COMMITTEE
2.038   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  BIHAR TO ESTAB S MONITOR PROJ
EXECUTION & MAINTAIN SPU TO
BE HEADED BY FULL-TIME OFFICR
2.04    OK    05/31/80               SPU/CPU TO FURNISH WORK PLAN
AND SCHEDULE FOR BIHAR
PORTION OF PROJECT TO ASSOC
2.05A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  BIHAR TO ESTABLISH AND
OPERATE FISH SEED DEVELOP-
MENT CORPORATIONS
2.05B   OK    04/30/80  53/18/00  BIHAR TO PAY IN AN INITIAL
CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION OF
RS 1,000.000 (FSDC)
2.05C   OK                           BIHAR TO PROVIDE FSDC FUNDS
TO MEET 30% OF HATCHERV IN-
VESTMENT COSTS
:D
I-i
x



PAGE 2
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-1N)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Co.enants
COUNTRY: INDIA            PROJECT TITLE  INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT             LIC NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL DIv 25620
SECTOR Dlvl: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   1/       DATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT              COMMENTS
2.050   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  BIHAR TO EMPLOY IN FSDC A
SUITABLY QUALIFIED MANAGING
DIRECTOR
BItIR  2.05E   OK    05/31/80               BIHAR TO APPOINT EXEC ENGNR
TO FSDC; APPOINT 3 SR EXECTV
MANAGERS BY 6/30/81
2 05F   OK    05/31/80               fSDC/CPU TO FURNISH ASSN WITH
SITE PROPOSALS FOR 2 HATCH-
ERIES. ALL BY 9/30/80
2.05H   OK                           IN PROJ SUB-AREA BIHAR NOT TO
SELL FINGERLINGS AT PRICES
BELOW FSDC'S PRICES
2.06    OK    03/31/81               BIHAR TO ESTA8LISH FFOA TO
SERVE EACH DISTRICT Of
PROJECT SUB-AREA
2.07    OK    06/30/80               BIHAR TO ENSURE LEASE TERMS
FOR PUBLIC WATERS OPEN TO
FISH FARMERS IN SUB-PROJECT
2.12    OK    12/31/81               BIHAR TO ESTABLISH TRAINING
CENTER FOR FISH CULTURE
DEVELOPMENT
2.13    OK                           BIHAR TO MAINTAIN AND
REPAIR HATCHERY APPROACH
ROADS
4.028   OK                           AUDITED ACCTS DUE TO IDA NO
LATER THAN 9 MONTHS AFTER END
OF EACH FISCAL YEAR (BIHAR)
- FSCD OF BIHAR
CRED  3.02A   OK                            BORROWER TO MAINTAIN AND
OPERATE CENTRAL MONI-
TORING AND COORD COMMITTEE
rc



PAGE 3
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Covenants
COUNTRY: INDIA            PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT             L/C NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL DIV. 2b820
SECTOR Dlv: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   1/       DATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT              COMMENTS
3 028   OK                           BORROWER TO MAINTAIN AND
OPERATE CPU. TO BE HEADED BY
FULL-TIME OFFICER
CRED  3.02C   OK    04/30/80                BORR TO HIRE HATCHERY ENGIN-
EER AND BY 4J30/81 A HATCHERY
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
3.020   OK    04/30/80               BORROWER TO HIRE KEY STAFF TO
HEAD SPECIFIED SECTIONS IN
CENTRAL PROJECT UNIT
3.02E   OK    06130/80               CPU TO PREPARE. IN CONSULTATN
WITH SPUS. WORK PLANS AND
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
3.03A   OK    06/30/80               CPU TO FURNISH WORK PLAN AND
TIMETABLE FOR RESERVOIR MGT
PROJECT & INLAND MARKTG STUDV
3.038   OK    04/30/80               BRWR TO ENSURE THAT ALL INDIA
FISH MRKTG STUDY INCLUDES IN-
LAND FISH MARKETING (FINANCE)
M.P.  2.03A   OK    04/30/80  05/31K80  MADHYA PRADESH TO ESTABLISH
AND MAINTAIN THE STATE MONITO
ING AND COORDINATING COMMITTE
2.03B   OX    04/30/80  Ub/31/80  MP TO ESTAB & MONITOR PROJECT
EXECUTION & MAINTAIN SPU TO
BE HEADED BY FULL-TIME OFFICR
2.04    OK    05/31/80               SPU/CPU TO FURNISH WORK PLAN
& SCHEDULE FOR MADHYA PRADESH
PORTION Of PROJECT TO IDA
2.05A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  MADHYA PRADESH TO ESTABLISH
AND OPERATE FISH SEED DEVELOP
MENT
0X



PAGE 4
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Covenants
COUNTRY: INDIA           PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT            L/C NO: C09630    FV: 80    TECHNICAL Dlv: 26820
SECTOR Dlv: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   1/      DATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT             COMMENTS
2.050   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  MADHYA PRADESH TO PAY IN AN
INITIAL CAPITAL SUBSCRIPIION
OF RS 1,000.000 (FSDC)
M.P.  2.05C   OK                           MP TO PROVIDE FSDC FUNDS TO
MEET 30% OF HATCHERY INVEST-
MENT COSTS
2.05D   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  MADHYA PRADESH TO EMPLOY IN
FSDC A SUITABLY QUALIFIED
MANAGING DIRECTOR
2.05e   OK    05/31/80              M.P. TO APPOINT EXECUTIVE
ENGNEER TO FSDC; APPOINT 3 SN
EXECUTIVE MGRS BY 6/30/81
2.05F   OK    05/31/80              FSDC/CPU TO FURNISH ASSN WITH
SITE PROPOSALS FOR TWO HATCH-
ERIES: ALL BY 9/30/80
2.ObH   OK                          IN PROJ SUB-AREA MADHYA PRA-
DESH NOT TO SELL FINGERLINGS
AT PRICES BELOW FSDC'S PRICES
2.06    OK    03/31/8I              MADHYA PRADESH TO ESTABLISH
FFDC TO SERVE EACH DISTRICT
OF PROJECT SUB-AREA
2.07    OK    0,3u/8lu              MP TO ENSURE LEASE TERMS FOR
PUBLIC WATERS AVLBL TO FISH
FARMERS IN SUB-PROJECT AREA
2.12    UK                          MADHYA PRADESH TO MAINTAIN &
OPERATE TRAINING CENTER FOR
FISH CULTURE DEVELOPMENT
2 13    UK                          MADHVA PRADESH TO MAINTAIN &
REPAIR HATCHERV APPROACH
ROADS                                                                                                 >
'c



PAGE 5
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Co~.enants
COUNTRY: INDIA             PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT               L/C NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL DIV: 26820
SECTOR Dlv: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION    I/       DATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                COMMENTS
4.028   OK                             AUDITED ACCTS DUE TO IDA NO
LATER THAN 9 MONTHS AFTER END
EACH FY (MADHYA PRADESH)
- FSCD OF MADHYA PRADESH
ORIS  2.03A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  ORISSA TO ESTABLISH AND
MAINTAIN THE STATE MONITOR-
ING AND COORDINATING COMMITTE
2.03B   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  ORISSA TO ESTAB & MONITOR
PROJ EXCUTN & MAINTAIN SPU TO
BE HEADED BY FULL-TIME OFFICR
2.04    OK    05/31/80                APU/CPU TO FURNISH WORK PLAN
& SCHEDULE FOR ORISSA PORTION
OF PROJECT TO IDA
2.05A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  ORISSA TO ESTABLISH AND
OPERATE FISH SEED DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
2.05B   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  ORISSA TO PAY IN AN INITIAL
CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION OF
RS 1.000.000 (FSDC)
2.05C   OK                             ORISSA 7O PROVIDE FSDC FUNDS
TO MEET 30% OF HATCHERY
INVESTMENT COSTS
2.05D   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  ORISSA TO EMPLOY IN FSDC A
SUITABLY QUALIFIED MANAGING
DIRECTOR
2.05E   OK    05/31/80                ORISSA TO APPOINT EXECUTIvE
ENGINEER TO FSDC; APPOINT 3
SENIOR MANAGERS BY 6/30/81
0.



PAGE 6
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Covenants
COUNTRY; INDIA            PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT             L/C NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL DIV. 26820
SECTOR Dlv: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   1/       DATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT              COMMENTS
2.05F   OK    05/31/80               FSDC/CPU TO FURNISH IDA WITH
SITE PROPOSALS FOR 2 HATCH-
ERIES; ALL BY 9/30/80
2.05H   OK                           IN PROJ SUB-AREA ORISSA NOT
TO SELL FINGERLINGS AT PRICES
BELOW FSOC'S PRICES
ORIS  2.06    OK    03/31/81                ORISSA TO ESTABLISH FEDA TO
SERVE EACH DISTRICT OF
PROJECT SUB-AREA
2.07    OK    06/30/80               ORISSA TO ENSURE LEASE TERMS
FOR PUBLIC WATERS AVLBL TO
FISH FARMERS IN SUB-PROJ AREA
2.12    OK                           ORISSA TO MAINTAIN & REPAIR
HATCHERV APPROACH ROADS
4.02B   OK                           AUDITED ACCOUNTS DUE TO IDA
NO LATER THAN 9 MONTHS AFTER
END OF EACH FY (ORISSA)
- FSCD OF ORISSA
U.P.  2.03A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  UTTAR PRADESH TO ESTABLISH a
MAINTAIN THE STATE MONITORING
AND COORDINATING COMMITTEE
2.030   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  UTTAR PRADESH TO ESTAB & NNTR
PROJ EXCUTN & MAINTAIN SPU TO
BE HEADED BY FULL-TIME OFFICR
2 04    OK    05/31/80               SPU/CPU TO FURNISH WORK PLAN
& SCHEDULE FOR UTTAR PRADESH
PORTION OF PROJECT TO IDA
2.G;A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  UTTAR PRADESH TO ESTABLISH &
OPERATE FISH SEED DEVELOP-                                                                               >
MENT CORPORATION
0-



PAGE 7
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Covem~ants
COUNTRY: INDIA            PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT             L/C NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL DIV: 26820
SECTOR Dlv: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   1/       OATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT              COMMENTS
2.058   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  UTTAR PRADESH TO PAY IN AN
INITIAL CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION
OF RS 1.000.000 (FSOC)
2.05C   OK                           UTTAR PRADESH TO PROVIDE FSDC
FUNDS TO MEET 30% OF HATCHERY
INVESTMENT COSTS
U.P.  2.05D   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  UTTAR PRADESH TO EMPLOY IN
FSOC A SUITABLV QUALIFIED
MANAGING DIRECTOR
2.05E   OK    05/31/80               UTTAR PRADESH TO APPOINT EXEC
ENGINEER TO FSOC; APPOINT 3
SNR EXECUTV NGRS BY 6/30/81
2.05F   OK    05/31/80               FSDC/CPU TO FURNISH IDA WITH
SITE PROPOSALS FOR 2 HATCH-
ERIES; ALL BY 9/30/80
2.06    OK    03/31/81               UTTAR PRADESH TO ESTABLISH
FFDA TO SERVE EACH DISTRICT
OF PROJECT SUB-AREA
2.07    OK    06/30/80               UTTAR PRADESH TO ENSURE LEASE
TERMS FOR PBLC WTRS AVLBL TO
FISH FARMERS IN SUB-PROJ AREA
2.12    OK    12/3:/81               UTTAR PRADESH TO ESTABLISH
TRAINING CENTER FOR FISH
CULTURE DEVELOPMENT
2. 3    OK                           UTTAR PRADESH TO MAINTAIN &
REPAIR HATCHERY APPROACH
ROADS
4.028   OK                           AUDITED ACCOUNTS DUE TO IDA
- FSCD OF UTTAR PRADESH
-e
0D



PAGE 8
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Mo;or Covenants
COUNTRY: INDIA            PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT             L/C NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL DIV: 26820
SECTOR Dlv: 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   It       OATE      OATE   DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT              COMMENTS
W.B.  2.03A   OX    04/30/80  05/31/80  WEST BENGAL TO ESTABLISH AND
MAINTAIN THE STATE MONITOR-
ING AND COORDINATING COMMITTE
2.038   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  WEST 8ENGAL TO ESTAB/MONITOR
PROJ EXCUTN L MAINTAIN SPU TO
BE HEADED BY FULL-TIME OFFICR
W.B.  2.04    OK    05/31/80                SPU/CPU TO FURNISH WORK PLAN
& SCHEDULE FOR WEST BENGAL
PORTION OF PROJECT TO IDA
2.05A   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  WEST BENGAL TO ESTABLISH AND
OPERATE FISH SEED DEVELOP-
MENT CORPORATION
2.058   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  WEST BENGAL TO PAV IN AN
INITIAL CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION
OF RS 1.000.000 (FSDC)
2.05C   OK                           WEST BENGAL TO PROVIDE FSDC
FUNDS TO MEET 30S OF HATCHERY
INVESTMENT COSTS
2.050   OK    04/30/80  05/31/80  WEST BENGAL TO EMPLOV IN FSDC
A SUITABLV QUALIFIED MANAGING
DIRECTOR
2.05E   OK    05/31/80               WEST BENGAL TO APPOiNT EXECUT
ENGINEER TO FSDC; APPOINT 3
SR EXECUTIVE MGRS BV 6/30/81
2.05F   OK    05/30/80               FSDC/CPU TO FURNISH IDA WITH
SITE PROPOSALS FOR 2 HATCH-
ERIES; ALL BY 9/30/80
2.05H   OK                           IN PROJ SUB-AREA WEST BENGAL
NOT TO SELL FINGERLINGS AT
PRICES BELOW FSDC'S PRICES
-o
x



PAGE 9
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT (CR. 963-IN)
SEPTEMBER 1987 SUPERVISION MISSION
Major Covenants
COUNTRY: INDIA            PROJECT TITLE: INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT            LJC NO: C09630    FY: 80    TECHNICAL Dlv: 26820
SECTOR DIv. 25620
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGMT SECTION   1/      DATE      DATE   DESCRIPTION OF COvENANT              COMMENTS
2.06    OK    03/31/81              WEST BENGAL TO ESTABLISH FFDA
TO SERVE EACH DISTRICT OF
PROJECT SUB-AREA
2.07    OK    06/30/80              WEST BENGAL TO ENSURE LEASE
TERMS FOR PBLC WTRS AVLBL TO
FISH FARMERS IN SUB-PROJ AREA
W.B.  2.12    OK    12/31/81               WEST BENGAL TO ESTABLISH
TRAINING CENTER FOR FISh
CULTURE DEVELOPMENT
2.13    OK                          WEST BENGAL TO MAINTAIN AND
REPAIR HATCHERV APPROACH
ROADS
4.028   OK                          AUDITED ACCOUNTS DUE TO IDA
NO LATER THAN 9 MONTHS AFTER
END EACH FV (WEST BENGAL)
- FSCD OF WEST BENGAL
1/   OK=COVENANT COMPLIED WITH.
OK1=COVENANT COMPLIED WITH NOW BUT WAS REvISED IN PAST.
SOON=COMPLIANCE EXPECTED IN A REASONABLY SHORT TIME.
NVD=NOT YET DUE.
DLET-PROPOSED FOR DtLETION AS NO LONGER RELEVANT.
REVS=NEEDS REVISION IN AGREEMENT WITH BORROWER TO REFLECT
CHANGED CIqCUMSTANCES.
ACT =NEEDS USE OF FORMAL REMEDIES TO BRING ABOUT COMPLIANC'.
UNK =STATUS OF COVENANT UNKNOWN.
-:>
-e
H-



