Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2655-IN
REI1ORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
November 26, 1979
This domths _a wetrled distribudi  a"d  may be _ed by recIpiets ouly in the ped_wmwn of
their ea6cta dStesl. ls caites  may  et eewle be dloewd without Wol   ank a_1orhatin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of November 16, 1979)
Rs 1.00       =   Paise 100
US$1.00       =   Rs 8.0382
Rs 1.00           US$0.12441
Rs 1 million =   US$124,410
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Re 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the dis-
bursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC     -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI      -   Government of India
FSDC     -   Fish Seed Development Corporation
FFDA     -   Fish Farmer Development Agency
CMCC     -   Central Monitoring and Coordination Committee
CPU      -   Central Project Unit
SMCC     -   State Monitoring and Coordination Committee
SPU      -   State Project Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       The States of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Amount:              US$20 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:   GOI to State Governments:  Funds for construction of
hatchery approach roads, strengthening of Fish Farmer
Development Agencies, establishment of extension train-
ing centers, and technical assistance will be made
available to the project States in accordance with
established GOI procedures for development assistance
to State governments.
GOI to ARD)C: Repayable over 9 years at 6.25% interest
per annum for ARDC refinancing not exceeding 9 years;
or over 15 years at 6.75% interest per annum for ARDC
refinancing from 9 to 15 years; 0.25% interest rebate
for timely repayment. Exchange risk to be borne by GOI.
ARDC to Banks: Repayable over periods similar to those
for ultimate borrowers; interest at 6.5% per annum for
lending to small fish farmers, and 7.5% per annum for
lending to all other borrowers.
Banks to Borrowers: (a) Small Fish Farmers: Repayable
over a maximum of 7 years, including up to 2 years of
grace, at 9.5% interest per annum; (b) Other Fish Farmers:
Repayable over a maximum of 7 years, including up to
2 years of grace, at 10.5% interest per annum; (c) Fish
Seed Development Corporations: Repayable over a maximum
of 15 years, including up to 5 years of grace, at 10.5%
interest per annum.
Project
Description:        The project is designed to increase carp production in
five Indian States (West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) through construction of
fish-seed hatcheries, improvements to fish ponds,
strengthening of fisheries extension services,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1ii -
establishment of training centers, and provision of tech-
nical assistance. The project will raise income and living
standards for about 100,000 fish farm families, mostly low
income members of the rural agricultural community. The
main risks are that: (i) Fish Seed Development Corpora-
tions may require more time than envisaged to build up
managerial competence for successful operation of the
project hatcheries; and (ii) during years of extreme water
scarcity, sufficient surface water may not be made avail-
able to the hatcheries in Madhya Pradesh during critical
periods. With regard to the former, a hatchery management
consultant will be hired to train new FSDC staff in
hatchery operations and provide guidance in the resolution
of operational problems. The latter risk has been reduced
through the selection by Madhya Pradesh, and approval by
IDA, of four hatchery sites that will provide adequate
water supplies throughout the year.
Estimated Costs:                                   US$ millions
Local      Foreign       Total
Hatcheries                            9.2          0.3          9.5
Hatchery Approach Roads               3.5          0.1          3.6
Fish-Farmer Development  Agencies   4.1            0.3          4.4
Fish Pond Improvements
and First Year Inputs               9.2           -           9.2
Training Centers                       1.4         0.1          1.5
Technical Assistance                  0.4          0.2          0.6
Total Before Contingencies           27.8           1.0        28.8
Contingencies:
Physical                            3.2           -           3.2
Price                               8.5          0.3          8.8
Total Project Cost                   39.5           1.3        40.8
Taxes and Duties                      1.1           -           1.1
Project Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties                   38.4          1.3         39.7



- iii -
Financing Plan: 1/                                     US$ millions
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                    18.7        1.3          20.0
GOI/States              1.7         -            1.7
ARDC                    7.6         -            7.6
Participating Banks    4.2          -            4.2
Borrowers               6.2         -            6.2
38.4       1.3          39.7
Estimated
Disbursement:                                   US$ Millions
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                   0.4      1.4     3.0      5.8     9.4
Cumulative               0.4      1.8     4.8    10.6    20.0
Rate of Return:      About 42%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2496-IN of November 16, 1979.
1/   Excluding taxes and duties.






INTERNAT'IONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$20 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance an inland fisheries project in 58 dis-
tricts in five States. Aboul US$10.7 million from the credit would be
channelled by GOI to the five participating States (West Bengal, Bihar,
Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Ulttar Pradesh) in accordance with GOI's standard
terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. About
US$9.3 million from the credit would be made available by GOI to the Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). ARDC would onlend
these funds to participating banks for financing fish hatchery construction
and fish pond improvements.
'ART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country dlata sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Althoug'h smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per arnum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Maharashtra Irrigation
Project (Report No. P-2624-IN), dated September 26, 1979.



-2-
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food.  Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
5.         This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.         India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.         India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, upward
adjustment of depressed agriculture prices and world inflation have led to



significant increases in prices during the first half of 1979. The wholesale
price index increased by 16% between mid February and September. Together,
food, food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils contributed over two-
thirds of this increase. Hourever, prices of almost all commodities have
moved up s:gnificantly during the first months of 1979/80. Although in part
reflecting a seasonal rise irt food and food products, the trends observed do
indicate a distinct departure from the relative price stability of the past
four years. The inflationary trend is likely to continue during the second
half of 1979/80, although at a slower rate, given the July 1979 price in-
creases in oil, steel and coal and continuing world inflation. Although the
current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-term growth
prospects, given available aggregate resources and production capacity, sig-
nificant improvements are likely to be required in the organization of key
sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.         The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78.  This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
.in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that tertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. However, prospects for sustaining the record
crop levels of the past two years in 1979/80 do not look good. The onset
of the monsoon was delayed this year and subsequent rainfall has been defi-
cient throughout much of the country. Early indicators are that jute, rice
and sugar cane output have already been adversely affected. Continuing
power cutbacks and recent shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are
also likely to contribute to the shortfall.
9.        Tle growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
quarter of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to
retard overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement,
sugar, cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels.
Strong demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as
fertilizers and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these
can counterbalance the constrained sectors.



-4-
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth).  Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter of
1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year. How-
ever, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is
likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates.
As a result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of
reserves sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports
covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made
possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.



-5-
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council early next
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will raise
yields as it takes hold gradually across India. Finally, there are several
heartening trends in foodgrain production: one is the steady growth of area
planted to high-yielding varieties of rice; another is the growing adoption
of summer rice cultivation in the traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab
and Haryana). These two trends along with the other favorable developments
have caused rice production to rise impressively in the last two years.
Another good omen for foodgrain production is the rapid growth of winter
wheat cropping in traditional rice areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient



- 6 -
industrial structure. Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of the exemption limit of industrial licensing for
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues. Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax



- 7 -
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exr' ange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some     istment in the balance of payments will be required.  Part of the
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance
17.        [ndia's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level.  The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of lnndless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their p_ rty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate it, that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless
families and families owning less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 117 development
credits to India totalling US$2,530 million and US$7,235 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,014 million had been
repaid, and US$3,093 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30,
1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 17 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$17.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.5 million, US$24.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrume_ptal in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to pro-
jects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment



-9-
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
September 30, 1979, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,548 million, of
which US$639 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$909 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding external
public debt was US$20.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$8.1 billion, or 39% (IDA's US$6.7 billion, and IBRD's US$1.4 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1977/78, about
16% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE INLAND FISHERIES SECTOR
Background
26.       Fish production is becoming an increasingly important element
in the Indian economy. Although at present it accounts for only about 1-1/2%
of the value of all agricultural production, the 7% annual growth rate in
fish consumption over the last 10 years reflects the high income elasticity
and the increased urban demand for fish. A recent study indicates that fish
is consumed in 88% of the households in Calcutta, 59% in Bangalore, and 45%
in New Delhi. Per capita consumption in these cities is about two to three
times the national average of 4 kg, which itself is about one-third of the
nutritional level requirement estimated by GOI.
27.       Fish has traditionally been produced by the poorest segment of the
work force. It is also one of the cheapest sources of animal protein, and
is the only source available to many of the households in the lower income



- 10 -
groups. In addition, as a result of changing dietary habits, many non-
vegetarians are recognizing the value of fish as a source of animal protein.
Even in vegetarian households, fish is sometimes an acceptable non-vegetable
item of diet.
28.       Fisheries development in recent years has concentrated mainly upon
marine fisheries. In 1977, marine fisheries accounted for about 65% (1.7
million tons) of India's total fish production of 2.6 million tons. A sig-
nificant portion (currently about 12%) of the marine fisheries production,
consisting of shrimp, crab and lobster, is exported; India is presently the
world's largest exporter of shrimp. However, GOI has begun to attach high
priority to the development of inland fisheries, primarily as a means of
raising the productivity and income of a disadvantaged segment of the popu-
lation, and of providing a source of high quality animal protein. Inland
fisheries have an advantage over marine fisheries on account of their acces-
sibility to many of the large inland population centers. In addition,
marketing of inland fish production does not necessitate extensive changes
to the transportation infrastructure. For people distant from marine fishery
centers, inland fisheries are often the only source of fish available.
29.       Inland fisheries consist of two types of activities -- capture fish-
eries and fish farming. Capture. fisheries are presently far more extensive
than fish farming, accounting for about 90% of the total production from the
inland fisheries sub-sector. Capture fisheries, carried out mostly in the
major rivers, lakes and reservoirs throughout India, involve the seining
and gill-netting of several species of carp, catfish and miscellaneous fish
in fresh waters, and hilsa and mullet in brackish waters. Over the past ten
years, inland capture fisheries production has not quite kept pace with total
fish production, growing at an average annual rate of about 6%, compared to
7% for total fish production and 8% for marine fish production. The future
of capture fisheries does not appear promising. The fish habitat has dete-
riorated considerably in recent years due to the proliferation of water
control structures, industrial water use, and extensive overfishing in many
of the traditional grounds where the most important commercial fresh-water
fish species are harvested. Consequently, India has begun to look to fish
farming as the main source for future increases in inland fish production.
30.       India is fortunate to have a large and well-organized body of highly
competent aquacultural scientists who have achieved major break-throughs in
several important technical aspects of fish culture. The most important of
these is the refinement of the techniques for the reproduction, through
induced breeding, of the main commercial carp species. Induced breeding
techniques, using simple hatcheries, have made possible the production of
large quantities of high quality carp seed on demand, thus providing a founda-
tion for modern carp farming. In addition, with induced breeding, the spawn-
ing period of Asiatic carp can be extended to about six months (March through
August), compared to the two-month natural spawning season (June and July).
Large-scale research on fish pond improvement has also developed what is
now called "composite fish culture", using several species grown in combina-
tion to optimize fish pond productivity. The development of induced breeding
techniques has made possible the optimum combination of desirable species, so



that fish pond productive potentials can be exploited more fully, and high
yields of the most financially attractive mixture of carp species produced.
31.       The various species of carp appear to be most suitable for fish
farming in India.  They are by far the most preferred of the table fish
species from inland waters among Indian consumers, who are willing to pay a
high premium for the larger species of fish. Moreover, they are the only
species of commercial and economic importance that Indian fish farmers are
familiar with, and are readily willing to farm.
Farming Practices
32.       The area of fish ponds under carp culture in India currently totals
about 450,000 ha. As a source of carp supply, fish farming is now nearly as
important as capture fisheries and provides about 40% of the total annual carp
production of about 290,000 tons. While fish farming is practised throughout
India, it is predominant in the States of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. In 1977, these States accounted for some 100,000
tons of the total cultured carp production of 110,000 tons, and about 70% of
t-he total water area for cultured fish ponds of 10 ha or less. The main
species farmed are, in order of importance, catla, mrigal, and rohu (all
Indian major carp), and common carp. Some 500,000 households are engaged in
fish farming; typically each of these manages a small pond less than 1 ha in
size.
33.       Fish farming in India presently depends mainly on riverine collec-
tion of spawn and fingerlings. As with capture fisheries, their availability
in some regions has been severely reduced by river habitat deterioration. In
addition, wild spawn and fingerling collections are highly variable from year
to year and are of progressively lower quality; on the average about 40%
consists of low-value fish and predators. Consequently the growth in both
area and productivity of cultured fish ponds is severely constrained by the
lack of high quality fish seed.
34.       Most fish ponds in India are owned by government agencies or village
panchayats; private ownership is limited mostly to the States of West Bengal,
Bihar and Orissa. About 94% of the fish ponds in West Bengal, and about 40%
in Bihar and Orissa, are privately owned. Private ponds are usually owner-
operated, and individual fish farmers may operate several ponds. Government-
owned fish ponds are commonly leased for a period of one or two years to
private individuals or cooperative societies through public bidding or nego-
tiation.  Using traditional fish farming practices, farmers stock their
ponds with a mixed fish seed which includes several species of Indian carp.
Stocking is carried out in June and July, after the natural riverine spawning
which follows the first monsoon rains.  Marketable fish are then harvested
during the following March and April when pond water levels are relatively
low. The seed is frequent:Ly of poor quality, and the supply inadequate.
Consequently, yields are low, averaging about 350 kg per hectare. It is
generally agreed that present leasing patterns for public water bodies are a
disincentive to private investment and -- together with the lack of quality



- 12 -
fish seed, inadequacy of credit for fish pond improvement and fish seed, and
the low use of inputs such as fertilizer and feed -- are a serious constraint
on the development of fish farming in India.
State Fishery Departments
35.       State Fishery Departments (SFDs) in each State are responsible for
fish culture extension services, the operation of fish seed farms, the devel-
opment of fisheries cooperatives, and fisheries research efforts. In addition
to these responsibilities, SFDs also operate a variety of training programs
for farmers and youths as part of their extension programs, necessary for the
rapid development of fish culture. A recent review of the State fish farming
development programs under the Fifth Five-Year Plan has also emphasized the
need for increased SFD involvement in development activities, particularly
in encouraging the expanded coverage of Fish Farmer Development Agencies (see
paragraph 36) to more districts, establishing carp hatcheries to increase fish
seed production, and developing and maintaining fisheries reservoir management
programs.
Fish Farmer Development Agencies
36.       Since 1973, GOI has funded the establishment of Fish Farmer
Development Agencies (FFDAs) at the district level in various States, with
the objective of increasing carp production, raising fish farmers' incomes
and creating employment for the landless in rural areas. To date, some 50
FFDAs, based on a pattern similar to the Small Farmer Development Agencies,
have been established to provide a field 'mechanism for coordinating the
agencies involved at the State level, and to integrate the various activities
connected with fish farming development throughout the country. At the field
level, FFDAs help to arrange fish pond leases between government bodies and
private individuals or cooperatives, promote fish farming, popularize improved
techniques, provide training and extension services, assist in arranging
financing, and organize fish farmer cooperatives.. FFDAs also provide a 25%
subsidy to selected fish farmers for fish pond improvements and first-year
inputs to help encourage expansion of fish farming and adoption of improved
practices. FFDA staff are generally drawn from State Fishery Departments and
coordinate closely with Fishery Departments on their activities. In districts
where they operate, FFDAs take over most extension responsibilities from the
State Fishery Departments, provide short-term training courses, help secure
fish seed, and administer credit for fish pond production expenses. FFDA
field operations have been underway for about six years, and experience to
date indicates that the FFDA pattern of organization can provide an effective
vehicle to promote fish farming development.
Marketing
37.       About 70% of the carp produced is transferred to the larger towns
and cities in India through well organized marketing channels. In general,
catches from adjacent areas are aggregated and shipped via local land trans-
port to large city markets such as Calcutta for sale to wholesale traders and
retailers. The remaining 30% of the carp production is sold locally by the



- 13 -
producers or to retailers or peddlers in small towns and in rural areas.
Present commercial channels appear adequate to handle the anticipated growth
in carp supply.
Fish Consumption and Prices
38.       In recent years, retail carp prices have been relatively strong
compared to the prices of other fish varieties. Pond-side prices for carp
in 1978 averaged about Rs 4.00 (US$0.47) per kg, compared to Rs 3.50 (US$0.41)
per kg in 1977. In view of the relatively high elasticity of demand for carp,
it is considered that a 10% annual increase in carp supply could be absorbed
by the market with no adverse impact on current price levels. Furthermore,
while carp is generally preferred by consumers, greater supplies of carp
should free more of the less expensive species of fish for low-income con-
sumers. An increase in carp supplies of 10% annually would call for a total
supply of about 750,000 tons by 1987. Since capture fishery resources for
carp are essentially fully exploited and in fact show signs of declining,
most of the increase, some 460,000 additional tons, would have to come from
fish culture. The project would contribute towards this end by providing an
increase in carp production of about 200,000 tons at full development in 1986.
Training
39.       Most fishery traini.ng in India is provided by the Central Institute
for Fishery Education (CIFE) in Bombay. CIFE was established in 1961 under
the GOI Department of Agriculture and Rural Development to train government
fishery officers for service in various States. Its program includes training
in technical skills for implementing both inland and marine fisheries devel-
opment projects. The Institute has a staff of about 200, and provides two-year
post-graduate fishery science courses for about 40 students a year. To date,
about 400 students have been trained by CIFE. CIFE also maintains ancillary
training institutions in West. Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh which
provide shorter courses at a lower level than those conducted by the Institute,
in subjects such as inland fisheries development and administration, and fish
farming practices. Specialized in-service training at the post-graduate level
is also provided by these institutions in extension techniques and methods.
Research
40.        Inland fishery research is primarily undertaken by the Central
Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI), which has its headquarters in
West Bengal. CIFRI, consisting of several central substations and 11 research
units, was established in 1947, but has since become a unit of the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research. CIFRI's objective is to maximize inland
fish production through the application of scientific techniques. Research
carried out by this institution, particularly that connected with the induced
breeding of carp species to extend the spawning period (see para 30), has made
a major contribution to fish culture development in India and has provided the
technological basis for future fish farm development in the country, including
the proposed project. Almost all of the scientific staff connected with
fresh-water fisheries are or have been involved with the work of CIFRI.



- 14 -
Potential for Carp Culture
41.       India has all the prerequisites for the rapid development of fish
farming. It has 1.6 million hectares of water bodies potentially suitable
for intensive fish farming, and a large number of fish farmers experienced in
fish farm management. It also has a large number of aquacultural scientists
and technicians specialized in the artificial production of carp seed to
support a well planned program of research and development activities. In
addition, a large market exists for carp, as well as a clear need for
supplying additional protein to a large population.
42.       At present, only about 450,000 out of the estimated 1.6 million
hectares of potentially suitable water bodies are used for fish farming.
Provided appropriate measures are taken, particularly with respect to
tenurial practices, roughly 1.2 million hectares presently remaining unused
can be brought under fish farming over the next 10 to 20 years. In addition,
with good pond management and adequate supplies of high quality seed and
complementary inputs, it appears that a high level of average yields can be
achieved for both the existing fish ponds and the new ponds to be brought
under culture, raising yields from an estimated annual average of 350 kg per
hectare at present to over 1,200 kg per hectare during the coming decade.
This increase in productivity and expansion of fish pond areas can be accom-
plished through the application of the well known and proven technology
already practised in some parts of India, and in West Bengal in particular.
Constraints to Fish Farm Development
43.       Four principal constraints limit the rapid development of carp
farming in India: (i) a shortage of carp seed in general, and of high
quality seed in particular; (ii) fish pond tenurial arrangements, which
generally permit only short-term leases and thus discourage farmers from
making long-term commitments and investments for improvement of fish ponds;
(iii) inadequacy of extension services at the farm level, to guide farmers
in improving water level control and optimizing the practices of stocking
and applying fertilizer and supplementary feed inputs; (iv) lack of long-term
credit for fish pond improvements, and short-term credit for fish seed,
fertilizer and supplementary inputs. The proposed project is designed to
help to remove these constraints in the five main inland fishery States of
West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Bank Group Operations in the Sector
44.       This is the first inland fisheries project in India, although there
have been two marine fisheries projects to date -- the Gujarat Fisheries
Project (Loan 1394T-IN/Credit 695-IN), which became effective on July 19,
1977, and the Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project (Credit 815-IN), which became
effective on October 31, 1978. The Gujarat Fisheries Project, for which
a Bank loan of US$14 million and an IDA credit of US$4 million were made,
provides for the improvement of the two major fishing harbors in the State
of Gujarat, basic infrastructure for eight fishing villages, credit to fish-
ermen, cooperatives and entrepreneurs through ARDC refinancing, and technical
assistance for test fishing operations and a fish marketing study.  Progress



- 15 -
of project implementation was slow initially because of delays in the hiring
of staff. This problem has now been resolved and work on the harbors at both
Mangrol and Veraval is under way. The Andhra Pradesh Fisheries project, for
which an IDA credit of US$17.5 million was made, provides for the expansion
of harbor and shore facilities at three ports, the expansion of the mechanized
fishing fleet, and the provision of village access roads and water supply in
three leading fishing districts in the State. Harbor works at Visakhapatnam
and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily and no delays in its implementation are expected.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The Inland Fisheries project was prepared by the Government of India
and the State Governments of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh, with assistance from Bank Group staff. An FAO/IBRD Cooper-
ative Program mission which visited India in 1975 first stimulated interest
in inland fisheries, and the findings of a subsequent IDA inland fisheries
sub-sector mission in February, 1978, provided a framework for project formu-
lation. The project was appraised in January/February 1979; Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2496-IN, dated November 16, 1979, is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, in October
1979. The Government of India was represented by a delegation with Mr. J.K.
Sibal, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, as coordinator. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The project will assist GOI and the five participating States of
West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, in their efforts
to implement fish farming development programs. The project's objectives
are to: (i) increase cultured carp production in the participating States;
and (ii) provide a basis for the future commercial development of the carp
seed industry, essential for the increased production of inland fish.
47.       The project covers 58 districts in the five participating States,
and includes about 117,000 ha of a total of about 258,000 ha of fish ponds
of 5 hectares or less in size. About 27 modern carp hatcheries will be con-
structed in the project districts to produce the fish seed required by farms
in the project area. Approach roads will be constructed to link the hatcheries
with existing road and rail communications. Fish ponds in the project area
will be improved.  New fisheries training centers will be established in the
States of West Bengal, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh, and an existing center in
Madhya Pradesh will be strengthened with additional civil works, equipment and
vehicles. Following is a brief description of the main project components.
(a) Carp Hatcheries
48.       The carp hatcheries to be constructed in the project area will
produce the high quality fish seed required by the fish farmers for stocking



- 16 -
their ponds. The availability of this seed will help to ease the shortage of
high-quality fish seed, which is one of the major constraints to increased
fish farm production.
49.       Hatcheries with pond water areas ranging from about 10 to 30 ha will
be provided; the concentration of fish ponds in a particular area will help to
determine the size of the project hatcheries required. Construction of the
hatcheries will be under the supervision of State-owned Fish Seed Development
Corporations (see para 54), which will also own the hatcheries and operate
them commercially.
50.       The hatcheries will be of a conventional design and will comprise
an indoor hatchery unit, ponds, watergates, channels, tubewells, administra-
tive and storage buildings, staff residences, fencing and internal roads.
Each hatchery complex will have facilities for artificial spawning of carp,
egg hatching, husbanding of brood stock, and rearing of carp fingerlings. At
full development, 10 and 25 ha hatcheries will be capable of producing 10
million and 27 million 5-centimeter fingerlings, respectively. The estimated
total annual production of fingerlings from project hatcheries is about 460
million at full development.
51.       The selection of hatchery sites will be based on several factors:
suitable soil conditions; availability of sufficient land; demand for fish
seed; availability of electricity and communications facilities; avoidance
of community displacement; and availability of assured water supplies. An
independent, secure source of water for the hatcheries is essential for their
commercial viability, since they will be r<equired to produce fish seed all
year round. In all States except Madhya Pradesh, groundwater supplies are
adequate; in Madhya Pradesh, the hatcheries will have to depend on surface
water. The Government of Madhya Pradesh has identified a number of sites
which appear to have adequate water supplies. Detailed data on these sites
were reviewed by IDA and discussed during negotiations. Four of the sites
are considered acceptable for inclusion in the project.
(b) Hatchery Approach Roads
52.       The project will provide for the construction of all-weather approach
roads linking project hatcheries with existing communciations. Road require-
ments average about 3 km per hatchery. Road construction will be executed
on behalf of the State-owned Fish Seed Development Corporations (see para 54)
by local contractors under supervision of the State Public Works Department,
which will also be responsible for road maintenance (Section 2.13 of State
Project Agreements).
(c) Fish Pond Improvements
53.       Approximately 100,000 fish ponds in the project area, totalling
117,000 ha, will be improved. Improvements will include earthwork for level-
ling, deepening, and shaping the ponds as needed, construction of inlet and
outlet facilities, and provision of bamboo screens.



- 17 -
(d) Fish Seed Development Corporations
54.        Fish Seed Development Corporations (FSDCs) will be established in
each participating State with responsibility for construction and operation
of project hatcheries and for marketing fish seed. In West Bengal, the FSDC
will be an independent subsidiary of the existing State Fisheries Development
Corporation; in the other project States, FSDCs have been or will be estab-
lished as legally and financially independent entities. FSDCs will be managed
on a commercial basis and will play a key role in project implementation. In
addition to supervising project hatchery design, procurement, and construction
activities, these corporations will be responsible for all production, promo-
tion and marketing aspects of the fish seed operations.
55.        In view of the critical role of the FSDCs to early project execution,
the establishment of the FSDC, the appointment of an FSDC managing director,
and the contribution by the State government of Rs 1 million initial equity
share capital to its FSDC, all to be carried out by April 30, 1980, are
conditions of credit disbursement for each State (Schedule 1, para 4(b)(i)
of Development Credit Agreement, and Sections 2.05(a), (b) and (d) of State
Project Agreements). In addition, State governments will ensure that: addi-
tional FSDC equity share capital of 30% of hatchery investment costs will be
provided as needed by FSDCs to enable hatchery construction to be carried out;
an FSDC executive engineer will be appointed by May 31, 1980, and three senior
managers by June 30, 1981; FSDCs will select the first two hatchery sites by
May 31, 1980, and the remaining sites by September 30, 1980; FSDCs will limit
their activities primarily to fish seed pr,duction, promotion, and marketing
during the project period; and after FSDC hatcheries come on stream, existing
State-operated fish seed farmis will not sell fingerlings at subsidized rates
lower than FSDC fingerling prices (Sections 2.05(c), (e), (f), (g) and (h)
of State Project Agreements).
(e) Fish Farmer Development Agencies
56.        Under the project, about 15 existing GOI-sponsored Fish Farmer
Development Agencies (FFDAs), serving 16 of the project districts, will be
strengthened. New FFDAs wil'L also be established within the participating
States to serve the remaining 42 districts by March 31, 1981 (Section 3.01(a)
of Development Credit Agreement; Section 2.06 of State Project Agreements).
The FFDAs will be responsible for providing extension services and assistance
to fish farmers in obtaining fish pond leases and institutional credit for
fish pond improvements. To help promote improved fish culture practices and
to assist small fish farmers, FFDAs may also provide a subsidy to selected
borrowers of up to 25% of fish pond improvement and first year input costs,
depending upon the budgetary provisions made by GOI and project States.
Low income borrowers selected to receive the subsidy would be chosen on
the basis of procedures determined by each State government, generally fol-
lowing the pattern of the Small Farmer Development Agency. GOI and State
governments will share FFDA costs equally. The credit will finance incre-
mental staff, vehicle and equipment costs.  FFDAs will be under the direction
of the State Director of Fisheries and will assume complete responsibility
for fisheries extension work in the project areas.



- 18 -
(f) Training Centers for Fisheries Extension
57.       New training centers will be established by December 31, 1981, and
operated by the State Fisheries Departments in West Bengal, Bihar, and Uttar
Pradesh; the existing center in Madhya Pradesh will be strengthened through
the addition of civil works and equipment, and in Orissa, training will be
provided at a center presently under construction (Section 2.12 of State
Project Agreements). These centers will train primarily extension workers
from State Fisheries Departments in fish pond culture, providing practical
applications of fish culture and extension techniques.
(g) Technical Assistance
58.       Technical assistance provided under the project will include
hatchery design and management support, project preparation, and a marketing
study. In connection with the first of these, GOI will hire, by April 30,
1980, a hatchery engineer consultant to assist project States in the early
stages of the project to ensure that the hatchery design and construction is
cost-effective and operationally sound. GOI will also provide, by April 30,
1981, a hatchery management specialist to train new staff in hatchery opera-
tions, and provide advice on operational problems (Section 3.02(c) of
Development Credit Agreement). These two consultants will be available
for a total of about 9 man-months each, at an estimated cost of about
US$8,000 per man-month, including subsistence and travel.
59.       Technical assistance amounting to about US$216,000 will also be
provided for a pilot study for a possible reservoir management project, to
be undertaken by GOI in conjunction with a selected State outside the project
States. The study will involve the construction of a 5 ha hatchery to stock a
number of small reservoirs. Monitoring of this operation will provide the
technical and cost-benefit data needed to determine the feasibility of the
proposed project. The operations and data-collection activities will be
undertaken by the Department of Fisheries in the selected State, under the
supervision of a Central Project Unit (CPU) in the GOI Ministry of Agricul-
ture (see para 61). (Section 3.03(a) of Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Technical assistance for the proposed marketing study, amounting
to about US$209,000, will include expanding the scope of an on-going marine
fish marketing study to cover inland fish marketing (Section 3.03(b) of
Development Credit Agreement). The present study is being carried out by the
Indian Institute of Management, under the Gujarat Fisheries Project (Loan
1394T-IN/Credit 695-IN). The expanded study will include an analysis of the
domestic market for inland fish, and the facilities and economics of the
inland fish marketing system in India, with particular reference to the
project area.
Project Implementation
61.       The project will be implemented over the five-year period, from 1980
through 1985. Since no well-established institutional framework presently
exists for the development of the fish seed industry, a Central Project Unit



- 19 -
(CPU) will be established within the Fisheries Division of the GOI Ministry of
Agriculture to coordinate and supervise project implementation. The CPU will
operate under the overall guidance of a Central Monitoring and Coordinating
Committee (CMCC) under the chairmanship of the GOI Secretary for Agriculture,
which will also be established to provide policy guidance and review project
activities in the participating States. Similar units--a State Project Unit
(SPU) and State Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (SMCC) chaired by the
State Secretary for Fisheries--have been or will be established within each
State, with responsibility for project implementation and overall policy guid-
ance at the State level. These SPUs will be established under the Director
of Fisheries in the States concerned (Sections 3.02(a) and (b) of Development
Credit Agreement; Sections 2.03(a) and (b) of State Project Agreements).
62.       The CPU will be gene!rally responsible for coordinating project
activities among the States, supervising existing FFDAs and assisting the
project States in establishing new FFDAs, monitoring the availability of
credit, and reviewing production, distribution and marketing aspects of
fish seed operations. It will also be responsible, on completion of the
project, for providing a report which would assess the project's impact and
the benefits realized (Section 3.05(c) of Development Credit Agreement). In
the States, the SPUs will oversee and coordinate all phases of project imple-
mentation, including assisting FFDAs in developing training and extension
programs, constructing and operating the project training center, assisting
fish farmers with lease terms and credit, and providing data on project
implementation progress within the State to the CPU.
63.       In view of the importance of the Central and State Project Units
and Monitoring and Coordinating Committees to successful project implementa-
tion, two conditions have been established: (i) the establishment by GOI of
a CMCC with responsibility for policy guidance and review of project execu-
tion, and a CPU headed by a full-time officer not below the rank of deputy
commissioner within the GOI Fiisheries Division, to monitor and coordinate
project execution, is a condition of credit effectiveness; (ii) the estab-
lishment by each State governaent, by April 30, 1980, of an SMCC, and an SPU
headed by a full-time officer not below the rank of joint director within the
State Fisheries Departments, is a condition of credit disbursement in that
State (Sections 3.02 (a) and (b), 5.01(b), and Schedule 1, para 4(b)(i) of
Development Credit Agreement; Section 2.03 of State Project Agreements). In
addition, GOI and State governments will ensure that by April 30, 1980, suit-
ably qualified key staff are appointed to CPU and SPUs, and by June 30, 1980,
work plans and timetables for implementation of the project are prepared and
submitted to the Association for comments (Sections 3.02(d) and (e) of Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; Sections 2.03(b) and 2.04 of State Project Agreements).
State governments will also ensure that 10-year lease terms for government
fish ponds in the project area are established by June 30, 1980 (Section 2.07
of State Project Agreements).
64.       FSDCs will be responsible for the construction of hatcheries and
approach roads, which will be completed by the end of 1984. They will also
carry out brood stock selection and hatchery staff training during hatchery
construction, so that hatcheries will begin to supply carp fingerlings in
each State in the third year of the project.



- 20 -
65.        FFDAs will purchase equipment and organize, transfer, and train
most of their staff during the first two years of the project. Recruitment
of new staff, and transfer of staff from State Fisheries Departments, will be
done progressively in the third and fourth years as fish ponds are developed.
FFDAs will also begin preliminary extension and promotion work in the first
year, and intensive extension activities in the second. Lending to fish
farmers will initially be concentrated on the development of demonstration
ponds in selected areas, and will expand rapidly in the third and subsequent
years as fingerlings from project hatcheries become available.
66.        State Fisheries Departments will establish the training centers in
the first two years of the project, although limited training will be under-
taken in the first year as soon as the first facilities become available.
67.       In addition to refinancing loans made by participating banks to
FSDCs and to fish pond operators (see para 71), the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation (ARDC) will provide assistance to participating
banks and prospective borrowers to prepare and evaluate investment plans
under the project. ARDC will prepare a banking plan for each project State,
identifying the participating commercial banks, and specifying the lending
arrangements and their engineering and fisheries staff requirements. The
plan will also define the criteria for the selection of hatchery sites, and
provide for joint appraisal and engineering approval of hatcheries by the
CPU. Since a large part of the proposed credit is directed towards ARDC loan
refinancing, the establishment of suitable financial arrangements between GOI
and ARDC for financing the credit components of the project has been made a
condition of credit effectiveness. (Sections 3.01(d) and 5.01(a) of Develop-
ment Credit Agreement; Section 2.02 of ARDC agreement). In addition, the
preparation of a State banking plan by ARDC is a condition of credit disburse-
ment for each State (Schedule 1, para 4(b)(ii) of Development Credit Agreement;
Section 2.08 of ARDC Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
68.       The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$40.8 million equivalent, including about US$1.1 million in taxes and duties.
The proposed credit of US$20 million will finance all of the foreign exchange
costs (US$1.3 million) and about 49% of the local costs (US$18.7 million), or
about 50% of the total project costs net of taxes and duties. The remaining
US$20.8 millior. of the project cost will be financed by GOI and the partici-
pating States (US$1.7 million), ARDC (US$7.6 million), participating commer-
cial banks (US$4.2 million), and individual borrowers (US$6.2 million).
69.       The principal components of the project, excluding contingencies,
are: hatcheries (US$9.5 million); approach roads (US$3.6 million); fish pond
credit (US$9.2 million); FFDAs (US$4.4 million); training centers (US$1.5
million); and technical assistance (US$0.6 million).
70.       The project also provides for price contingencies of about US$8.8
million, based on projected price escalations of about 7% per annum for civil



- 21 -
works and 6% for equipment, together with physical contingencies on civil
works of about US$3.2 million, based on an estimate of 20% for hatcheries and
approach roads, and 15% for other civil works. Details of cost estimates and
the financing plan are given in the Credit and Project Summary.
On-Lending Terms
71.       GOI will channel IDA funds provided for hatchery approach roads,
FFDAs, extension training centers, and technical assistance, together with its
own contribution, to the projesct States in accordance with its established
procedures for development assistance to State governments. IDA funds for
subloans to FSDCs for fish hatcheries, and to fish pond operators for fish
pond improvements and first yesar inputs, will be channelled through GOI to
ARDC. ARDC would use these funds for refinancing loans by participating banks
to FSDCs and fish pond operators. GOI loans to ARDC for refinancing loans
made to fish-pond operators for a period not exceeding 9 years, will be
repayable at an interest rate of 6.25% per annum over 9 years; GOI loans to
ARDC for refinancing loans made to FSDCs for a period of 9 to 15 years, will
be repayable at a rate of 6.75% per annum over 15 years. An interest rebate
of 0.25% will be given for timely repayment. GOI will carry the foreign
exchange risk. ARDC refinancing terms for participating bank loans will vary
in turn with the income level of borrowers. These terms will provide an in-
terest rate of 6.5% for refinancing loans to small fish farmers 1/, and 7.5%
for all other borrowers, with repayment over periods similar to those for
these ultimate borrowers. Loans made by the participating banks to ultimate
borrowers will carry an interest rate of 9.5% for small fish farmers, and
10.5% for all other borrowers. The maximum period for these loans will be
seven years (including up to two years of grace) for fish pond credit, and
fifteen years (including up to five years of grace) for FSDC carp hatcheries.
For fish pond credit, most project borrowers are expected to have low or
medium income levels (up to Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,500 respectively of net annual
fish farm income, based on 1972 prices), and will qualify for loans covering
from 90% to 95% of the investment cost. Many of the low-income borrowers are
expected to qualify for the FFDA subsidy of 25%, in which case loan coverage
could be as low as 75%. Borrowers with incomes in excess of Rs 3,500 will
provide down-payments of 15% of the investment cost.
72.       Inflation in India between 1975/76 and 1978/79 has averaged 2.1%
annually. Inflation rates are not expected to exceed 5% annually during the
project period, so the proposed interest rates to the ultimate borrowers (9.5%
and 10.5%) would be positive in real terms and compare favorably with real
interest rates in other developing countries. In addition, these interest
rates would be consistent with on-lending rates for institutional credit in
other sectors of the Indian economy.
1/   'Small fish farmer' means any individual fish farmer engaged in fishing,
fish culture or related activity which provides a pre-development net
return to family resources not exceeding Rs. 2,000, based on 1972
prices (Rs 3,100 equivalent in 1977/78 prices).



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
73.       Civil works for the construction of hatcheries, hatchery approach
roads, and training centers, will be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to IDA. The hatchery sites and approach roads will
be widely dispersed and the value of individual contracts will be small; it
is unlikely that foreign firms will be interested in making bids. Civil
works for the construction of training centers are also small, and unlikely
to be of interest to foreign bidders. Small civil works, costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent, may be carried out by force account.
74.       Procurement of equipment for hatcheries, FFDAs and training centers
would generally be in small quantities. Bulking of equipment items for these
project components for international competitive bidding purposes would be
impractical, due to the diversity and relatively small sizes of individual
equipment items, the widely-dispersed locations of hatchery sites and FFDAs,
and the differing construction and development timetables. Most of the
equipment included in the project would therefore be procured locally by the
appropriate project authorities (FSDCs, FFDAs, or State Fisheries Departments,
respectively) through normal commercial channels on the basis of quotations
from interested suppliers, with due regard to economy and efficiency. Equip-
ment costing US$50,000 or more would be procured by the project authorities
through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
75.       The works relating to fish pond improvements are small, numerous,
and widely dispersed; they will be procured by individual fish farmers accord-
ing to their preferences through local contractors or by direct hire of labor.
76.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of
expenditures for consultant services, preparation of the pilot study for the
reservoir management project, and marketing study; 75% for hatchery approach
roads, FFDA incremental staff, vehicles, and equipment, and training centers;
and 55% of ARDC refinancing of participating bank loans for project hatcheries
and fish pond credit.
Economic Benefits and Risks
77.       The project's economic benefits will include the production, at
full development, of about 460 million high-quality fingerlings annually,
which will help to increase carp production by about 200,000 tons annually.
In addition, the project will raise the income and living standards of about
100,000 fish farm families, mostly low-income members of the rural community,
and will improve nutritional standards of consumers by adding to supplies of
high quality protein. Even with outside income, which would not be signifi-
cantly affected by the project, fish farmer incomes are generally below
poverty levels. The annual net income from fish farming to the average family
in the project area will increase from about Rs 500 (US$58) to about Rs 2,400
(US$279), in 1978 prices, as a result of the project. The project will also
provide substantial additional employment in fish farming and fish marketing
activities, as well as employment for the construction of project facilities.
It is estimated that about 4,000 full-time jobs for unskilled labor, and



- 23 -
10,000 jobs for part-time unskilled and surplus family labor, will be created
for fish farming, and about 4,000 full-time jobs for fish marketing. Earth-
work for hatchery construction and fish farm improvement will provide for
about 230,000 man-years of labor during the project period.
78.       The economic rate of return for the project investment as a whole,
excluding technical assistance for the pilot project for reservoir stocking
and the marketing study, is estimated at about 42%. A 20% reduction in bene-
fits would reduce the economic rate of return to about 22%, while a 20% cost
over-run in hatchery and fish pond investment costs would reduce the rate of
return to about 37%. A simultaneous reduction in benefits and cost over-run
of this order would reduce the rate of return to around 19%. If the expected
project benefits lag by one year, the project's rate of return would be
reduced to about 22%.
79.       Financial rates of return calculated for the key components of the
project indicate rates from about 22% to 37% for hatcheries, and 27% to 55%
for fish farms. Variations in the rates reflect differences in the capacities
of the hatcheries and farms. The Fish Seed Development Corporation with the
smallest hatchery capacity, and therefore the least financial viability,
yielded a rate of return of about 21%.
80.       The principal risks of the project are associated with the
institution-building aspects of the FSDCs, and with hatchery water supply in
Madhya Pradesh. FSDCs will play a vital role in the operation of project
hatcheries, in producing adequate supplies of fish seed and in proving the
commercial viability of fish hatchery operations. However, the FSDCs are un-
tried and there is a risk that they will need more time to build up managerial
competence than is now envisaged. For this reason, the hatchery management
consultant is considered essential to ensure efficient operation of che
project hatcheries. The necessary assurances to achieve these objectives
were obtained during negotiations (see paras 55, 58).
81.       Unlike the other project States, Madhya Pradesh has very limited
supplies of groundwater available for hatchery water supplies. The risk is
that in extreme drought conditions, possible water shortages may hamper
hatchery operations. The State Irrigation department has indicated that
adequate water supplies would be made available, provided that the hatchery
sites are located near the sluice gates of minor tanks commanded by major
tanks. Alternatively, water for the hatcheries could be pumped from reser-
voir dead storage. The department has also identified a number of potentially
suitable sites for which water supplies can be assured. In view of the severe
shortages of fish seed, which critically hamper the development of the sub-
sector, the risks involved appear justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation; the draft Project Agreements between the Association and each of the



- 24 -
States of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh; the
draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) and Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
83.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The establishment of financial arrangements between GOI and
ARDC, and the establishment of the CMCC and CPU, have been made additional
conditions of credit effectiveness. Conditions of disbursement are: the
establishment, by April 30, 1980, of the SMCCs, SPUs, and FSDCs; the provision
by April 30, 1980 of Rs 1 million initial capital subscription to each FSDC;
the appointment by April 30, 1980 of a managing director to each FSDC; and
the preparation by ARDC of a project banking plan for each State.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 26, 1979



ANNEX I
INDSj - SOCIL INDICATOR DATA SIZT                      Page  1  of  5
RZQacME GROUPS (ADJUSTED AL.GES
LAND AmXA (TOUSAD SO. IX.)                  MIA                         - MOST RZCUT ESTATE)    _
TOTAL          3287.6                                                Sm         SAKE    *l IEIGiE
AWRCULTURL    U18183                               MST RECENT    OMRAIC    INCOlE          INCOME
1960  /b   1970 A  ESTXMAT .1k     UGION a   GROUP Ld   GROUP L
GOP PM CAPlTA (USS)                 60.0        90.0    180.0           191.1     209.6       467.5
EncERy CONSllTION PER WITA
(tKIGIAS 0 COAL EQUIVALEhT)    1U2.0        181.0    218.0           69.1       83.9       262.1
POPUllAION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, Mm-yZEA  OIfLLIOBS)   434.9      547.6    631.7 L
UDA  POPULATION (P?CUT o0 TOTAL) 17.9         19.7     20.7.           13.2      16.2        24.6
POPULATION PrloJEoTNs
POPUL.ATION 3 YARE 2000 (MILLONS)                   973-0
SETIONuAA  POPUUIUTN  1MfI0NS)                      1643.0
TEAR STATIONAIY POPULATION 1S DAWNED               2150
POPULATIoN DENSITY
Pr  SQ. R4.                    132.0       167.0    192.0            86.6      49.4        45.3
PQ SQ. 12. AGRICULTURAL LD    247.0        308.0    347.0           330.2     252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURS (PECENT)
0-14 YRS.                       40.8        42.5     42.0            44.3      43.1       45.2
15-64 Yns.                       55.7       54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2       51.9
65 TIS. AND ABOVE                 3.5        2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0        2.8
POPLATI0ON GROwZE Rn (PQCENT)
TOTAL                            1.9         2.3      2.1             2.4       2.4         2.7
URBAN                            2*5$L       3.3      3.1            4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDE 3DITM  RATE (PER TIOUSAPD)    43.0      40.0     35.0            44.4      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (Pt T8OUSA D)    21.0        17.0     14.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2         2.9      2.4             3.2       2.9         2.7
FAMILT PLANNIN
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WO)   ..          12.0     16.9             7.9      12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       100.0       102.0    101.0            99.4      98.2       99.6
PE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT 0P
REQaIRZMENTS)                 95.0        92.0     89.0            93.0      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        51.0        53.0     48.0           56.1       52.1       54.3
OP WVICH ANIMAL AM PULSE      19.0        16.0     12.6            10.4      13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HonTALTY RA7TE    28.0       22.0     18.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT B11TH (TEALS)   43.0      48.0      51.0           49.1       49.3       54.7
tNFANT MORTALITY RATE (PEU
MOUSAND)                            *-       134.0       ..             ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *-        17.0     33.0            31.5      26.3        34.4
URBAN                                       60.0     83.0            63.9      58.5       57.9
RURAL                             ..        6.0      20.0            20.1      15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCDETA DISPOSAL (PZRCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *-        18.0     20.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
URBAN                             *         95.0     87.0            66.8      65.1        71.3
RURAL                             *-         1.0      2.0            2.5        3.5       27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        5800.OL    4890.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4     6799.4
POPULATION PER N9URSING PERSON  9630.Oh    5210.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         2590.0/j   2020.0   1231.0           2738.4    1417.1       726.5
JRB&N                             ..         ..        ..             ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..             ..    2445.9       1404.4
A4DMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..          ..       ..             ..       24.6        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
T5TAL                            ;.2         ..       5.2             ..        5.3        5.4
URBAS                            5.2          ..      4.8             ..        4.9        5.1
IELA.                            5.2          ..      5.3             ..        5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NUNB3E. OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            2.6         2.8       ..
RL'RAL                            ..          ..       ..
i5CESS .0 -LECIRICITY (PERCENT
RF HI'E'LL:iGS )
wOTAL                            ..          ..       ..             ..       22. 5       2S. 1
'IRAN                             *-          *                        -       17.8       45.1
R5RAL                             ..          ..       ..             ..         ..        9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL tNDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A)ERAGES
INDIA                           IDST RZCENr ESTIMATE)  a
SAME        SAHE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT    GEOCRAPIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLYENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0        72.0       79.0            59.5       63.3         82.7
MALE                 80.0         87.0      94.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
FEMALE               40.0         55.0      63.0             43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0        29.0       28.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0         39.0      38.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALE               10.0         17.0      18.0             10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECOlIDARY)   8.0         6.0J        ..             1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMA9Y                            29.0        40.0      42.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          16.0        17.0         ..              ..       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0        33.0       36.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPb'LATION                         0.7         1.0       1.2              2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0        21.0      24.0             15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.1       0.5               ..        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
tNTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        16.0       16.0             6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3        3.8              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEnALE (PERCENT)                   31.3        32.6      32.2             21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              73.0        73.0       73.0            66.3       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0        11.0      11.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0        40.2      39.2             35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 57.1        52.3       51.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               27.9        27.1       26.2            15.7       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1        1.1             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEgOLDS   26.7         26.3/1       ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         48.97        ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEgOLDS    4.1          6.771       ..              ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.27        ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY 'ARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
L'RBAN                               ..          *-      83.0             86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      73.0             74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVETY iNCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      50.0             50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTI!bATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCO'ME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               '-           ''      47.0             44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..           .,      52.0             52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not apolicaleC.
NOTES
a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
'b   Unless ocherwise noted, data for '960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
andi 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
c    South Asia;   d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  l'e  lower Middle income (S281-550 per capita,
L9765-    f  .97?  mid-year population is estimated at 640. . illion;   a  1951-SO;   'h  1962;
,:  t95S;    i  1967;    k  1978 mid-vear labor .orce Is estimated at .61 million;   /   1964-o5.
Most Recenc Estitwce of GNP per capica is for '978.
August, 1979



DUOrMOF SOCIAL INPICATORS                                                                  Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Although the dots ar  draw  fer ore  generally judged the mast  uthonitotie   sod teliable, it ohould  Ila. be noteo that they coy not be Interna-
tionally comarble, beososs  of the lack of standrdized defisitoas and concepts used by diff-erent condtries in collecting the Ones. The data are, nontheless,
usefull to denoribe orders of magitude, indinate treds, and   chaatriecrtain major diffecenne   bteeeo   -tunraes.
The adjusted snoP avrgesfrahiniaoraepopoltica-esighted geomtric men, eneIudiig the, ectrem   tao                                    f the indiosoor end the soot popuInted
on, ty  n  ac  gop.   a  t  ak of data, group aveags  of  11 indistora fr- Capital Surplus Oil Enprtees and of indistorn of A-ocus to Water nod  erets
Disposal , H-~sig,d Income Diatihbtion  and Povety foe  tihse country groups are pp.lsattoa-esightd geomtric, neae  ithout en-iuin of tin  ectrec   -al-c and
the soot  opsIated coutry.   ic   h   oeaeo  countrIes   n    the itadhea1ters deorood  on  aalbialhity o,f data and is not -If-r. cation suet no  e-ein,d
inreintieg avrges of oneiio tor toante.   Thsf                  vrae   e  mel sfu.1 as anprns.imsos of  expetd'h values whor comparing the ,caues of one
indicator at a time ams  the coutry and referenegrus
LAND AREA (thounad  qh.)                                                                      Aceo  to  Dorbafist al (rerb n  of pouation) - total, =b-o, and  -uclI
Total - Tota  surface ores comprising band are  and island  eaters.                           Nfsbr ofpol   tnl              e,adrrl   evd by ecoreta dhcco-ale
Agricultural -  to.        ent e-tiste of agiutca          .raued tempor-ily                  paroentsne  of their re-peti-e pouains            -orta diapossI as  i-nclde
on peesa tonfi          p.y, pantucee, saket and kitchen gar,dea  or to                    the, colection  and dicpoai  cith or  lthout treatnt, of husc  co-et,
lie  fallo.                                                                                 acd cate-eter by cae-on    ycItee  or the uoc cf pit pniv,iec acdnuia
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capota cotitees at curet uheket   iu,Population Pen Phy.nliai   - ~Popultion d-tde,d by o-he  of peacticiog pbyc~ici-t
cacltdbdoevneso   etbod 00 World Osaka Atlas  '                          b767  bsi)tqaified from  a adic-l 0010I nO  nit-roty level
1960, 1970, end 1979, data.                                                                 Poplto   pen Nurnong Penuoc - pcpclntioo divided by coale  of p-oct-ici    sole
ffIEPY tOO:I(PTffION %P~IoCAPITA -   nA-l  ,,n,-Ptl,, of onerol  nrysd female groduate  -uece, practical  --oe, sod  -0,,tota   ounes
(coa  andlignte,  etroleo,  atoral gao end hyr-, occ.ea  ad gco-                      PoPultion Per HnupitaL be      oa,  ro,ed lcal - Poultio   [tot                     uie
tieral eloctrio-ty) in kilcgrn   of coolI eqiealet Per capita; 1960,                          nod  -uenl  div,ided by tcin ne,peotave eunbe  ofE. honta IId  aaiIboIe in
1970, urd 1976 dato.                                                 ~~~~~~po,blic end p-oote generl and ope-oliced bcepita1 end relnhtilot-oice onec.
1970, -d 1976 dt..                                                    Hd.l~~~~~~~~~Ftoitalo are establ:obh-to  pe-eenetlt otaffed by nt leant one phynician
POPUIlTITOi  AND VITAL STATISTEIC                                                               t,ablih-bcttI provIding princopally  -utod-I earn ar  not  incioded. prn1
Total Popu1.tio.. MAid-tear (sill,o-n) - in of July ii 196c1, 1970, and                       b,,opitsio, hmeetr, iInclde bea1to and sedioa1 oectenoto  p-rmunctly ctafre,d
i977 doto.                                                                                  by a  lnca   (bunt by n medical aninbte, come,  tddotfe,, etc.-) ,hiih offer
UbrPpulation (per-ct of totn1) -Ratio of urbant-            oa   ouain                    nptetaeenaioedpoieaietinneo   eie   al on
diffenent defbitlos  of onio  arnaey affect  -cpaacloty of data                          Adniuni-o  ner Hspita1 Ped - Total oucte, of sod  0--c to on d-charge- fr
o    .ogc _nnce   .96.I,1970, and 1975 doto.                                            hoopitalo div,ided by the nober of hod-.
PpitinProjcot boo
Poplaion in year D0ii -- C .rret population projeotiono are ta-ed  t                    ciOtOItd
1975 total population by  ge, end ec and tbeir  -utoIIt, end fertility                Averae Sov of HO...ehold (perooc  per bo...ciold) - totul, also, ad rurl-
vstec. Projection. paratofre  forsotality eaten copriseI of three                        A bo-ebold  -oni,tI of n droop of iodioidun1c  ,h. nboe liolog lonreo  n
lece,o anuning 01 fe encet-ny nit birth I no--tlg alto ocuney-                           their solo  -1-a    A bo-d-  or lodger cop  -0 na  cot br i-oloed :
Pee  aPlin  oo-e level, and female hifo eopnoeno-y  osilcs t                             boo_hold toy ocattiti-aI porpon-
975y--r.  Thy parentern  for fertility note alo bave ebree lev-lo                   overage tt-c cc pe-o-  per eons - total, sloe, end  -oral - A-erg, nuclei
tuccalidg d-1-a  ic, f-taility no-rdlog to io-a  leve  und pact                          Of peroo..  pe  rcon in all orIo, end r-rul ocopi,,d -ov-t-ldolacc
fanIy cIauning 0crformsoe. Dub  -cutry in then asaoiged one of thene                     neIpeotiv-y.  beelling,o -clUde oc-eoee t -otr-o   mad  --ocpied pn,vto.
n,ine  ..ebi,nti-n  of oetoillep and fertilIty trendo for pro7ectio                    Ae_e  toleotri-ty [percet of dulio)-t,,tni  orbn  nod rural -I                      oo
Stotlonary popoloaloc-lo a ototaconep popolsoloc tbecnooccgnontb  total, alan, cod coral dted iatgcrenpeotive-y.
000c tbn birtb rate is, e,qual tc the d-ntb -ot,, aod a1- the ego
otnootor   ea 0  cstrot.  hio cc   hine  coy after f-rtillty rate,                   bOifiArloN
declnh ote   releect lee- o-cittoe   rp-du-ti. onrte,  hbAjcedIrlnetPto
_hc goneration of coe  r-ploe "  t"elf I,cootly.  Tic sttailoay pcpo-                    Prluny n-hoci     totl,  a _-e en  female - moan cocI-, na-         co  ene  ocl
lo ni-ce-n-teimted on the boom  o  the projiected obhraterioti-a                        et oIf alne  nt the Primay leve  an per--ogec  of  _,trOi_r   --lac
of Lnbc popletion in tie y,enr 2000, coo The rtte of celo   f fertility                     o-h-1-sgc popo1,,t1occo nouily  -Inlde-  hbold-e  agno  --id fynr  hut
rate to veplonecent level.                                                                  ndjontod for doff-roet 1-gthc of pranar  ,d-oti-o; io-  --tn -i, -teb
Yea  otati__ay Ppcpitiolerace  - Thb, year ,hec otatioenry population                           T_,vceo  co_eto eIn  o.ll.eet coy  -co-d lID p-eroo   Icc- non  popiIo
nic.e h-n bee    -hteed.                                                                     - r  be,l-n  or  bioc IIIe .ffoi-   aool ego.
all.onae  ltii                                                                                --codn-y  -ob, 1 - teol   ol  cod feule - cnyotou e' Ido;or   or
Ier c. be. - Oid-yna- poplatea-  Pcr ,T-e cl-onter (ill h-tcenr) of                            dot-io  reqolvec ot, tt  door y-n- of  .p.ro,d .4--00   i-.r_  1.0
"toe                                                                                         T_rnproloe  genea - ooool,o  teaher t-nloin, d--ctrot-'   I . poi.iIO
Per co   nc   gnci    1rl ed - C-oPoond no sho-  for                       1-.otns   ed       oco-l  of 12 to, 17 y-nrnf ogo;orcpudenrroonc7   tli
Aouato   ge lt-a.oore  (poroene) - Childne  (0.11 yea-)nrnn-g                          Voentclonal.. ooineto (p-r-co  if t--dry) - V-otinn .              L..i.irOOI0  a
(1-iyearn),edrted(5 Yea   nod --c) noPretgno                            -ert rhe,Len, Indothrinl, or other progr-o  hbico op-tno  idepncdoni  ors
pcpulotioo; i~60, 1970, sod 197' dato,.                                                       dep-tiocee   of.....ocdnr  i_ctitoaco-
P-rlnci-courcheIlnceoroctl  ttn- Aon-tler-thrnt-ccf tots1 ii-                                 - Iii-tnob   -rtn-pr   o -.od  -cocmnr- Toto1itodeae-e-r.lio Io
year popul,oti-n  f5Fr_     -b195;  L 71W170) end 1970-77.                                    priany mad --ocOtr  loo ioOided by conl-r              f t-enoer  ic  Ine
popultloo   for'950 It lig7tl-7f, Fod i7d-7`5                              -         Adolf Olenr-r  rn.ei  ..rec -t Lit-eenOlt   cOin, no rea  ocdo-i-ejo
CrueBinth Ot       tc hocasd) - Anno.. Iv II-birethI Per thrunnod of cOd-                      n  o.ntv   ftOil nd.1lt popolooioo   p   1', y--c -odoer
Yea   _opultion  l%l, 1970, co1977 data.
Crode broth OnceMon  thooIand)   A-1O a  d-tebo Per th-. - .oe:i  ,lo-v-                 CONdlUMliN
'ppo.Ntioe  1960, 197, sod 1977 o.tto.                                                   Paone  0cfctb.ndp-utoo                            d-- Pootror -'so-pros  coor zero
trc bredo-tion Onto - A-evng  .-t-c of ocotn   cccaoi:Io                                 -,otiog loo-thdo   '-i1b  pec-oz; rolodot,s        bcoo  b-e-ren  colni-ny
ochen  -o-ml n-rodo-tio  pe,rIod It ooo              _  eoc boocprco   c,;0-ooi  z
pot cfrIlit   mien;  ,cn llpY filv-y-or  --eng-  -ddlog ic Yi,,                   Indrob, ozic--  [per thr--dpooleon   All zyoc-  f   -eo-ver  O-  -di,
0I70, end 0975.                                                                            b-od-nzf  to  00rc  poblir por tohoocuco                I. zepp Inio I I'od,o  ocIzoor
occrpfornofhI ba,.--oat-i oc-il- 01dm  ajtop-coo' tnationa  Inooly                         '-lo    ef   o   oct yp-t  n, a   o   - 'oparal, 10 . ore. t 0 
tally Iuocano-neco    orect '0 macrod ,ee) -l-,-tcco,- feoried                   TVtoonoprOotooI.ou-  1-  srzoOo o   cooelI   nco
of oild-conig  ag   15- Jesr I o-o-    ,inl-_otrico---o                      poOllo 10   lcedppFt  rroo,    ooeoo70nrcor 
to nil  -a-od Ien It in tot  or droop,                                                      o  in  -oroord-rgotoi to     I P    o    0i  cifr-t.
plo': 0101 ooTfICIPN                                                  lt~~~~~~~~~~~enspoer Clr-1ltioo  (p,r thoonnoid EPoolnot1oo)   h- o     thln .:c- doioato
nooonlprr"lorol..r,1t pnll.oooccolbc.   rdut occlune                   tzo                                               _fcd     -r O.-POIt,O rO lot-. 1
feed cod ic ocoileodr p0cc  mob.  Comaid:.cc I lee,. pniar  g-co  d             in-m   ocr-il. Atooo'orpo.ooo-irr    .O.ro0-r:'t'O
(co. r0fcvacer-o  oo rolded).  Agg-egatc peod,ef Ic   f carb, ootry
0 Te,ed on nationa overag prodocenr of or ,eighten.
Per onpito  -uppy Yf oul ri-                f noo   -zqui-ncto,  - Crecotod f-o          ho   1c
c-,gy ,qolvirol I    coIt foo.d copplironalbe 10c eyprcgf                              jjolt  nlor,1  oro-  -to-'.-ao  I'    o:'I 'olyno  opcoo uoloccri
per m                  -vcll oPolIr- o,-prlcc.a-oti,,rd.otc  inport  lei                 lrc    l   oolpdlto0co ot   -o.                         tIert   one  LcVo I    .
roer h,no  oe -a  In cood   Oc,t -.PiOooctdo colna  foco, coodo,                  icenocotro
qocotlolenood in food proonolg, cd 1 coon 1c C otnib,utic. Re,quie-                    Fe1fl~pt  -Icne--r-tdc ' I  ,tol  ni-c ronor-
-t,eou.r  nofitiunced  y P00,oocd00 ppoioioalc-co  fo  noon                             g          1 3le7~r7ot    1-- ltr   '01o to-o o--ryI    hootig nod
co_tny Inod  .-ItI _oocaooico          I    _or  oct-t- cpeoTo_, ode oeightc.           Cmzh:rg -0pneee   Io t 'coO  t', - -.
age  od cc omcorictl-oc  f popuint  co, 0.,d ,Jl-ncc   1, percet for            loiIy(ertt              a     trr o, coo ri.g, --t-t-0   ,   -of tot-og 000
otealuohold 1eo-l.       '                                                                       .t.t-Oty   00 -00c   2    r:'-conrtnd  , f t '.dI   0r-  coo-.
i_ opln spol oI_f oncte"  ~g_n   ocr day) -tI :ocbot                   erP.ri, e-Ptilio R-:o"ooeo:t)   trlcl    c:.,0                                 atOpcIno
opitn oct noc'plp of food yer dniy. Net copplp  ,f:r'otIoo`e`li-,d nc                     otiity neon:  _r pod or" -o tI             ac :o  rt Iinforce  -e pe-
ahoo.  oqooncofr  l   00c.    -otnbliohed 1.0 tiS, pr-ide for a                            -ctoo,i of total,  -0cc  oo Porou  70_n   t: 0II  oI  coroloiep
loirnodn, a11-nn-o  o' nLO ren-  of tot,il  -t-c  Per lay at RI greno of                 1-1 00   r   9- - .m             h- blt  oro                      ratoinrfleotig
en.Ica  000 Podo L poteio,, of ullo  11 gr-a  ohoolo On  oima1 prTtin.                    ge-,O  aec-t-r  o  tho looilat-zo  ad hood -". mOo-r0.  A fe -contmaeen
These     Ittd.d nec 1o-r then tho',  of75 grm    _flti  rta                              ..o00  f_o  otico- co
75 grI of uco-1 P-otoit no      norn, ton the  -orho  Pp-ocd by FAO                   Eoo-oi  eI,eadeooy R Os ,o:' tr           t f  popolcozo  oc-r 10 oed ol cod ovoroc
io thbThiodoWrId F, dlo--y.                                                              Lb,l 1.o-  or-clocrc,r:ocL:,.~-4py...
Po 'npe   prt,in  _ppip fron coiml coo poI- - Pr-tec oupply or food
Child (age,1-d       tolity ~tot  (ic- tLb_ed  - Aon   d-utto pen thoocd                   Pero-nag  C  P-ivec  nc 'o  (lot'~ 0. oc ad lito)  - co-ctod by .o.tnot
in  eg  grou  I-', Year, tohbodre.n to hit ago group; foe note d-lc-                                                         P erot,-ooc  Ptpoo      2000    ptroeot, cod ooret 4l p nct
pIDg conc _rt f_dataI d-ricvo fron lhfe tablni                                             of hoooholooi.
1.7Cc locrtency         cer-Average  -osoe  of yearn of life                          Pt.aetAcueioryl'c     oiPo   ooctc      rc.oooc 
-eniclg at bori    O96,1T97, end 1977. dntn.                                             IlooopoocotY  -oom   i 1e i, '0 oo n,cc  love  blo-  hi,,h o ricoma
lofono Otenliop o       lo h 100  -    o-nl do-eho of isfnncdroc                        ootont_.yodon                              i'ro- _toinco-   o
ycr  f nrtper t_roooddfoe birtlo                                                         aftodai-
hooocIi nf  Otter(proce-,f1 pooaio    "I'              s, oblan. en  coa -,  ftcte   'loo-P000    00     '    12  on0t   n      ra   n   o
oofe natr rooplyooolu -etroeo  ofo    nen0  co tente  but                          o...oc   i.o-om  of tic ooootop.            --oe  lon i  d-r:oedfr- thc rol leon I,-
onroten:oooto  rouh n   bct Po prboc-trblh,oro~,00  adj-t-tan   for  ilh- root or loi-n, itoIn mer
acood ofo-  I  els  at01   p-enotoo-  of their  -econti-c cconhtovno. o                  Io  mted P,p  aicO   .0, Olel::-e                    ...rt   ora  Leoc  ( --t0fO   rn  end
eorbon  rncPobl  foettein  orIotendp-t J-otod not acr  then                            rol - P rrot ofrploo                ronedcrlth   re'looapo"
00acent 'ro             - orcY be oo.t lide-d to. bei   c:thlor.a.enable,
nocnfethnooo.   I   oa   reno renei                         _neo  old  -oply
thtt ton h--oo fn-- I  cc  nO-onoft"oh  o 'onehod do coo; IIoe to ipeod a                                                             oi-ioen   1rn  Ioita Oo-i-
d-oprop-tiztorI r port  -f  le doy ho feoociog tic fenfy'. n-toroeeda                                                          -ocooo;nloscdtProjeotI-  Dep-rfe-t
hgAt4 1179



ANNEX I
Ecm_MEIn=an                                 Page 4 of 5
SW  PU Clilti IN 1977, as  150
b/                                                                                                     el
GCO   UhflUL P&MUCT IN 1977/7S                                               L                         1             CL  ct5et *ricos)
VWU ,I        _t                                                                    960i1-1 5  lS/4.19/70    1970/71.1978/77
GD at Market Priceo              101.47      100.0                                                   3.9                 3.8                 3.2
Gro   Dmesstic  y"tesct           21.65       21.3
Gross Netiomal Seriac             22.77       22.6
Current account alanse  d/         1.06        1.0
Rsource W&Lece   d/              - 0.31      - 0.3
OUTPUT, LAN" TOM  AMin pa0fTYV%T  IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor ge.                PA. er  orkwr
VW  UI.          t                IU    %1.   *                        t ot atiomat  Averasg
Ariculture                         24.5           46.6               L30.0     72.1           1S                84
Industry                          11.5            22.3               20.1      11.2            532              199
ericee                            18.3            AL.&                         18.7     5                       I
Totl,vre                           52.8          100.0               IS0.,   100.0             292              1
amars 1                                                      Central Govent
}2129/775-    1977na     1974S--                             YgY179          m74/75-1977/78
Currat acaipts                    164.62         1.9           1.2                              93.62          11.0           10.3
Current S_editures               137.29             161U                                                       -.29
Curreat Surl/Deficit                7.13          O.8           1.8                              0.35          a.o.            0.8
capital Smdittues  f/             62.58           7.2           7.0                             43.31           5.0            5.0
isteral Assist"" (et)  A/           9.52          1.1           1.8                              9.52           1.1            1.8
NT, CRMZDT AND nscU                 1970/71    1973/       1974175    l95ni        174/      197           Septemer  17L      S<tembr 197
("  2        otagt-ndj  at Sd of period
1MY sd Quasi IAey                     121.6      193.6      220.3       254.7         .9      363.1           334.8            395.8
eak  Cradit to Governet (eat)         52.6        87.3       95.3      101.1       110.2      129.7           119.3            139.5
:eak Credit to Cilsrciel sector         6.       107.0      126.7       153.9      183.1      210.0           195.3            223.5
Qeeremap  or Ldm  *mm5te)                                  I8rJ 1975         JaIfry 1979
omwy and Quas Ibme as 5 of Cl          30.1       33.5       31.5        34.5       38.8        U1.9
bol els Fries Ie
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0      139.7       174.9      173.0      176.6        185.8        IS4.5              184.6
Aemal perceatess cba_ge  in:
Wholsea 1tries Iaden                    7.7       20.2       25.2       - 1.1        1.1         5.2           3.2               0.1
eak Credit to Goverment (oat)         10.5        12.3        9.2        6.1         9.0        17.7         13.4               16.9
leak Credit to C_rcial Sector          19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5        20.3        13.5          16.6              16.6
a/ *he per ceits 0W estimte is at rnat price. calculated by tbo cec resio  techni4ue sed in te World Atlas.
All other coavrsioas to dollars ia this table ers at the ewrse szabase rvet prevailing dalas tle period covere.
bI/ Quick Istiatee.
c/ Conmuted tre tred liLs of CC  at tactor cost seise, including eae obserlctim  before first year ae  am
observation aftor lst yer of listd period.
d/  World Sank estimtes; net necesarily coeistet wtth official Natioal Accommt Statistics.
I/  Tramsfers between Cente and States hte  boa  metted out.
f/ All loa en d adwances to third partie  ba   ba  netted out.
*I/  Stemal grants sed loas, less principal repapasts, as recorded ig the Cntral budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
h/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US1$ million)                                                       US$ ml*.         %
Exports of Goods                   4,672      5,753        6,276       6,800                Engineering Goods               610         11
Imports of Goods                  -6,449    -5,928        -7,237      -8,400                Tea                             417          7
Trade Balance                     -1,777      - 175        - 961       -1,600               Gems                            377          7
NFS (net)                            310        360          650          700               Clothing                        331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                  -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                        Products                278          5
i/                                                               Jute Manufactures               267          5
Interest Payments (net)            - 216      - 180         - 50          -                 Iron Ore                        265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)           -          -            -           -                 Cotton Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfers  jI                    470        730        1,400       1,300                Sugar                           244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account        -1.213        735        1.039         400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953         1,628       1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1978 -
Amortization                   - 531      - 560         - 645       - 725                                                      US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                242      - 337        - 330       - 158                Outatanding and Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                     - 45      - 216          384          205               Undisbursed                                4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)           - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                     Undisbursed                          19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)          2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                  h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/        1,365      3,276        5,668       7,350                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                            1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                      US$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417      1,581         1,817       1,980                                                   IBRD          IDA
Exports                               43         37           33        n.a.                Outstandin%  ad Disbursed           613         3,864
of which: Petroleum                 22         21           18        n.s.               Undisbursed                          615         1,992
of which: Petroleum                22                                                    Outstanding, including                  m/
lUndisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 = US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978           :  US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/  Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of lo
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1979)
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                              1,163.2
55 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,338.6
267-IN     1971   India    Wheat Storage               --         5.0      .22
294-IN     1972   India    Bihar Agricultural
Markets                --         14.0      .29
312-IN     1972   India    Population                  --        21.0    1.41
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    6.38
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                      --        25.0    8.65
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    5.73
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    9.62
427-IN      1973   India    Calcutta Urban
Development I          --         35.0    1.24
440-IN      1973   India    Bihar Agricultural
Credit                  -         32.0    3.64
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    8.44
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --           50.0      .98
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --      24.20
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy             --        30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   38.54
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0    4.74
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   17.97
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    7.36
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0   13.59
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer           109.0      --      17.73
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            96.3       --       6.36
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   13.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   15.68
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    9.14
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   24.58
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   26.68
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   67.94
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   92.40



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.57
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    16.06
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    119.40
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     27.25
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     24.22
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     24.14
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --     12.99
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.82
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   17.42
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  123.90
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   17.06
690-IN     1977   India    Wl, Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    2.48
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.73
715-IN     1977   India    ARLDC II                   --        200.0   48.32
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaiyar
Irrigation             --         23.0   18.19
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.34
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      81.35
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   55.89
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   12.09
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   52.72
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     45.10
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   97.88
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   67.92
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0      --      25.00
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0      --      94.38
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --          117.6  108.23
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power       --        200.0  179.43
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   14.00
808-IN     1978   India    Guajarat Irrigation       --         85.0   81.15
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --        17.5   17.50
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II         --         16.0   15.99
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --     73.00
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy            --        150.0  147.28
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --       196.0  196.00
843-IN     1979   India    Jaryana Irrigation        --        111.0   97.64
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --       190.0  177.06
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage  i          --        38.0   36.87
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --        27.0   27.00
862-IN*    1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --        25.0   25.00
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                      --         30.0   27.48
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0      --      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --       200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation         --        129.0  129.00
899-IN*    1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --        48.0   48.00
911-IN*    1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --       175.0  175.00
925-IN*    1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --        23.0   23.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN*    1979   India    ARDC III                    --        250.0  250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India    Thal Fertilizer            250.0       --    250.00
Total                                   2,529.5   7,234.8
of which has been repaid                960.7       53.0
Total now outstanding                   1,568.8   7,181.8
Amount Sold                    133.3
of which has been repaid   112.2         21.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA          1,547.7   7,181.8
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           639.1   2,454.1
*   Not yet effective.
1/ Prior to exchange adjust.ment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        --         0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.4        5.2
TOTAL                                53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.0         -        17.0
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             24.5        8.0       32.5
Undisbursed                           4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PR]OJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was UJS$538.3 million in FY79 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,093 million
as of September 30, 1979, r,sflects the lead time which would be expected given
the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 7, 1979 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Lending to farmers under the Second ARDC Project (Cr. 715) is pro-
ceeding well and the credit is expected toibe fully disbursed by the closing
date. The Third ARDC Project (Cr. 947) would continue lending to farmers
upon completion of the second project.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September, 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1.978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommuniciations VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, [978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
May, 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975;            -
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 31, 1979 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Trombay IV project has been commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical
equipment, although the nitrophosphate plant is still having some operational



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
problems. The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial pro-
duction is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now
proceeding satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six
months. Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments.  IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation of
the Bihar project (Credit 294). As of May, 1979, when the project was last
reviewed, construction works had been completed for 29 of the 50 markets
proposed, and were in various stages of completion for the remainder. Addi-
tional investments to provide for more shop-cum-godowns have also been made,
and the construction associated with these is also almost completed. Land
acquisition problems connected with four markets remain to be settled, but
these are not expected to affect the implementation or disbursement schedule.
In the Karnataka project (Credit 378), some delays in project implementation
were encountered as a result of frequent changes in management in the early
stages, and these have necessitated an extension of the closing date by 18
months to June 30, 1981, to allow for completion of works and withdrawal of
the credit. Progress is improving, however. As of May, 1979, construction
on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under the project was underway or completed,
and trade had shifted to about half of these. An additional five markets
may be included in the project at the request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures whiere consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
Completion of proposed water treatment works by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of construction of the project sewerage works is
scheduled for mid-1980. Financial performance of the project entity is satis-
factory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit
390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with imple-
mentation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The first of these credits is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1979. By that date the project will be substantially complete,
with the exception of one water supply subproject (of a total of seven) and
the area development component, both of which will be completed with State
Government funds and supervised by IDA in,conjunction with the supervision
of the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project. The second project is
proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of the severe floods of
September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power shortages. Procurement
is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants' services, though some-
what behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff shortages in some of the
implementing agencies continue, although more extensive use of consultants
has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: Septembear 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
co-operative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to
a slow start, has shown considerable improvement. Farmer response has been
good and more than 700 dairy cooperatives are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh, the response of small farmers
to the project has been excellent. More than 260 dairy cooperatives societies
have been formed and their financial situation remains most satisfactory,
plant construction is well urnderway and the Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development
Corporation is now responsible for the management of all dairy plants in the
project area. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Five milk unions
have been formed and excellent progress has been made in servicing the 800
village-level dairy cooperatiLves.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 13 of18
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date:  August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shaLlow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of Apri:L 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance coslts of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; (expected) Effective Date:
January 20, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and3village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second NatiorLal Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is satisfactory. The role of various organizations (National
and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date:  October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit. of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists; of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years. An FAO/IBRD CP Marine Fisheries
Identification/Preparation mission of July-September
1975 first stimulated interest in the possibility
of an inland fisheries project. In February 1978,
an IBRD Inland Fisheries Subsector Mission iden-
tified a potential project for inland fisheries,
on which this project is based.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of India, Department of Agriculture,
Fisheries Division, endtorsing the findings of the
subsector mission that identified the project.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date
of the first mission to consider the project
January/February 1978 subsector mission.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 26, 1979.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
October 16, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
April 1, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  The establishment by State Governments, by April 30, 1980,
of the FSDCs, together with the contribution of initial
equity share capital and the appointment of a managing
director to each FSDC (conditions of credit disbursement).
The provision by State Governments of additional FSDC equity
share capital for hatchery construction, and the appoint-
ment, by May 31, 1980, of an executive engineer, and by
June 30, 1981, of three senior managers, for each FSDC
(para 55);
(b) The strengthening, by State Governments, of existing FFDAs,
and the establishment, by March 31, 1981, of new FFDAs,
to serve the project districts (para 56);
(c)  The hiring by GOI, by April 30, 1980, of a hatchery
engineering consultant, and by April 30, 1981, of a
hatchery management specialist (para 58);
(d) The establishment by GOI of a project coordinating
committee (CMCC) and a project monitoring unit (CPU)
(condition of credit effectiveness). The establishment
of similar entities (SMCCs and SPUs) by State Govern-
ments (condition of credit disbur,sement) (para 63);
(e) The establishment by State Governments, by June 30, 1980,
of 10-year lease terms for Government fish ponds in the
project area (para 63); and
(f) The establishment by ARDC of suitable financial arrange-
ments with GOI for the financing of the credit components
of the project (condition of credit effectiveness). The
preparation by ARDC of a banking plan for each project
State (condition of credit disbursement) (para 67).






IBRD 14267R
SEPTEMBFR 1979
78-
28-
U  T A
I N C-) I A
NNI,                                                                                         (SIKKiM
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT                                                                                                                                                            L
PROPOSED PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AN
KN
PRC)jECT STATE BOUNDARIES
PROJECT DISTR CTS
tVVAN
F RAS\,
ONGOING FEDA's
Ij
E     PROPOSED  HATCHER ES
0
0     DISFR C.T HEADQUARTERS
0     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                     PA- NAf                                                                0
%HY
RIVERS                                              fLJ-.
MAJOR ROADS                                                              ZL                                                                                                                                                 -5-
AFLECTED MAJOR RA L LINES
INTERNATONAL KUNDARIES                               All A
24'-
24'
5 0          10,0        10          200 MILES
PURLAIA
0      So      loo     ik      -2k     250    360 KILOMETERS
RAI G,
L A   P L) R
m I
DEM RER                         b-  f C-P/
AFGHAN15T                                                                                                         j
L                      J
C  H    N  A
M   ARA HTRA
PAK STAN                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
C
p
UTTAR  `n<,                                                                                                                          PritiLBA  I,
N                         VA
4
PR
I N D
y
A AID, A
R.Y f a-val                       PRA DESH
I'll lp I- I =dll 1=41.lt8l 11
ww
SR)IANKA                                                                                            32-



