Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. 2496-IN
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 16, 1979
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00          =     Rs 8.60
Rs 1.00          =     US$0.116
Rs 1,000,000    =      US$116,279
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)           =      2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton  =       0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)               =      1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)            =      2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CMCC      -    Central Monitoring and Coordination Committee
CPU       -    Central Project Unit
CIFRI     -    Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute
FFDA      -    Fish Farmer Development Agency
FSDC      -    Fish Seed Development Corporation
GOI       -    Government of India
PB        -    Participating Bank
SMCC      -    State Monitoring and Coordination Committee
SPU       -    State Project Unit
GLOSSARY
Fish Seed       -    Fish from the stages of egg larvae to fingerling.
Spawn           -    Fertilized eggs and hatchlings.
Hatchling       -    Fish larvae after emergence from egg to about 0.8 cm size.
Fry             -    Young fish from hatchling to about 2.5 cm size.
Fingerling      -    Young fish of about 2.5 cm or longer; 5.0 cm is standard.
Composite Fish -    Growing two or more species of fish in a pond to optimize
Culture              productivity; often synonymous with polyculture or mixed
fish culture.
Fish Hatchery  -    Fish seed production unit with facilities for brood stock,
artificial spawning and raising fingerlings.
Fish Seed Farm -    Fish seed unit with facilities for raising fingerlings
from spawn, but no hatchery for producing spawn.
Tank            -    A pond or a small reservoir of variable size, mostly for
irrigation, general village use or fish farming.
Bund Tank       -    Natural or man-made pond with an open side through which
runoff water can enter.
Bund Breeding  -    A system of natural breeding of carp in captivity;
requires special natural conditions and has been
used successfully with only two major Indian carp
species.
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Indian Rupee was officially valued at a
fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a
"basket" of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US
Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report are based on the projected exchange rate during the project
period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE INLAND FISHERIES SECTOR  ...........................                     1
Inland Fisheries  in India ...........         ..1........... 
Carp Consumption and Marketing                    .       .           2
Fish Farming Development Policies  and Programs  ...                  4
Carp Seed Technology  .............................                   7
Potential  for Fish Culture Development  ...........                  8
Constraints  to Fish Farm Development  .............                  9
1I.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................                     9
Project Concept  ..................................                   9
Objectives and Major Features  ................                       9
Project Area ................        ..      ...................     10
Fish Hatcheries  ..................................                  11
Hatchery Approach Roads  ...........         ..     .............    12
Fish Farmer Development Agencies  ........               .........   12
Fish Pond Credit  ..............        ..      .................    13
Training Centers  for Fisheries Extension  .........                 13
Technical Assistance  ............        ..      ...............    14
III.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING,  IMPLEMENTATION
AND DISBURSEMENT  ....................................                   15
Project Cost Estimates  ...........         ..     ..............    15
Financing  ....... .............            ....................     18
Lending Terms and Conditions  ........ ..             ...........    18
Project Implementation  ...........         ..     ..............    20
Procurement  ...... .............            ...................     21
Disbursements  ................       ..      ..................     22
Accounts and Audits  .............        ..      ...............    22
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................                    23
General      ..................... .....................             23
Coordination and Implementation  ......... .........                 23
GOI Central Project Unit  ......... ..            ............    23
GOI Central Monitoring and Coordination
Committee  ....................................                 24
State Project Units  ............................                 24
State Monitoring and Coordination Committees  ...                 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
Fish Seed Development Corporations  ....           .........    25
Fish Farmer Development Agencies  ....            ...........   27
Monitoring and Evaluation ........................                 28
Credit Organization ..............................                 28
V.    PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES  ....              ..........   29
Carp Seed Production .............................                 29
Carp Production ..................................                 30
14arketing ........................................                31
Prices ...........................................                 31
VI.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                 .......................  31
Financial Analysis ...............................                 31
Economic Analysis ................................                 32
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries  ....            ...........    32
Long Term Development Impact .....................                 33
Risks ............................................                 33
Environmental Impact .............................                 33
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................................                   34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. R. Reidinger, W. Schwermer, Y. Tang, L. Sprague, and Ms. N. Pinto
(IBRD), and Messrs. B. Meeke (Consultant) and B. Shetty (ARDC) which visited
India in January - February, 1979.



- iii~ -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1  -  Project States and Districts and Hatchery Site Guidelines
2 - Project Cost Estimates
3  -  Financial Analysis and Cash Flow Projections
4 - Economic Analysis
5 - Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
6 - Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
GOI Inland Fisheries Organization Chart (20293)
State Fisheries Departments Generalized Organization Chart (20310)
Fish Seed Development Corporations Organization Chart (20294)
Project Implementation Schedule (21012)
Hiatchery and Approach Road Construction Implementation Schedule (20304)
Plan of 25 Ha Hatchery Model (IBRD 14268)
Plans of 5 and 10 Ha Hatchery Models (IBRD 14269)
Plans of 10 Hia and 25 Ha Model Hatchery Building (20215)
Hatchery Building Cross Section (20216)
Central Channel and Perimeter Bund Cross Sections (20217)
Pond Dividing Bunds (20218)
Details of Subsidiary Gate (20219)
Details of Division Box (20220)
MAP
Proposed Project Area (IBRD 14267R)






I. THE INLAND FISHERIES SECTOR
Inland Fisheries in India
i.01     Background.  Inland fisheries in India is an important economic
activity, which in 1977 produced some 875,000 tons of food fish, accounting
for about 35% of India's total fish production of about 2.6 million tons.
Inland fisheries comprises two types of activities, capture fisheries and fish
farming. In terms of total production, capture fisheries is by far the more
dominant at present, accounting for some 765,000 tons out of total inland
fisheries production in 1977. Capture fisheries is practiced mostly in the
major rivers, lakes, and reservoirs of both fresh and brackish waters. It
involves various types of seining and gill-netting for a number of species of
carp, catfish and miscellaneous fish in fresh waters, and hilsa and mullet in
brackish waters.
1.02     Over the past ten years, capture fisheries production has not quite
kept pace with total fish production, growing at an average annual rate of
about 6% compared to 7% for total fish production and 8% for marine fish pro-
duction. It appears that a significant further increase in capture fisheries
production is highly unlikely because of the deterioration of the fish habitat
due to proliferation of water control structures, industrial water use, and
extensive overfishing in many of the traditional grounds where the most
important commercial fresh water species are harvested.
1.03     Fish farming of carp, which in India is a highly preferred fish
species and the only commercially farmed species, is the major source from
which an increased supply of fresh water fish can be expected in the future.
As a source of carp supply, fish farming is now nearly as important as capture
fisheries and provides about 40% of the total annual carp production of about
290,000 tons. The area of fish ponds under carp culture in India currently
totals about 450,000 ha. At present, however, fish seed supply to these ponds
depends mainly on river collection of spawn and fingerlings. Like capture
fisheries, river collections in some regions have been severely reduced by
river habitat deterioration. In addition, wild spawn and fingerling collec-
tions from rivers are highly variable from year to year and are of progres-
sively lower quality, on the average containing about 40% undesirable and
predator fish species. Growth in both area and productivity of cultured fish
ponds is severely constrained by the lack of high quality fish seed.
1.04     India's fish farming history covers many centuries.  Fish farming is
practiced throughout India, but the five leading pond-culture states (West
Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) accounted for some
100,000 tons of the total cultured carp production of 110,000 tons in 1977 and
about 70% of the total water area for cultured fish ponds of 10 ha or less.
The main species farmed are, in order of importance, catla, mrigal, and rohu
(all Indian major carp). About 500,000 households are engaged in fish farming,
and typically each of these households manages a small pond less than 1 ha in
size. In general, it is the lower socioeconomic segments of the population
which are engaged in both fish farming and the fish trade. Most Indian fish
farmers are experienced and hardworking, but they need better quality seed,
credit for fish pond improvements and inputs, and training and upgrading of
practices to improve their productivity.



- 2 -
1.05      Fish Farms, Farming Practices and Yields.  Indian fish ponds are
typically rainfed and generally range in size from about 0.5 ha to about 2 ha,
averaging about 1 ha. Where groundwater levels are high, as in the lower
Gangetic delta regions and low lying areas of other large river basins, ponds
are perennial and have sufficient water for fish culture all year round.
Village ponds and tanks often have several uses, and competition for water
for other uses is high, especially during the dry season. This competition
can limit the intensity of management, particularly with regard to input use
and fish stocking and harvesting.
1.06      Under traditional fish farming practices, ponds are usually stocked
with wild carp seed which includes the species of Indian major carp. Stocking
is done in June and July each year after the natural riverine spawning which
occurs following the first monsoon rains. Marketable fish are harvested in the
following March and April season when pond water levels are relatively low.
The supply of seed is often inadequate and the quality poor, with high content
of low value and predatory species. Little fertilizer and feed is used, except
in West Bengal where fish farming is more highly developed. As a result,
yields are low, ranging from about 100 kg/ha to about 600 kg/ha and averaging
about 350 kg/ha. Where cultural practices are more advanced as in West Bengal,
however, yields sometimes exceed 2,000 kg/ha.
1.07      Fish Pond Tenure.  Most fish ponds in India are owned by government
agencies such as State Revenue or Fisheries Departments or village panchayats.
Only in West Bengal, Bihar and Orissa is private pond ownership substantial,
accounting for about 94% of the fish pond area in West Bengal and about 40%
in Bihar and Orissa. Government entities commonly lease fish ponds to private
individuals or cooperative societies for fish production for a period of one
or two years on the basis of public bidding or negotiations. Recently, State
governments have been gradually shifting toward longer lease terms for small
ponds because institutional finance for developing ponds is available only with
leases for nine to ten years. Operators leasing ponds usually reside near the
ponds. Private ponds are generally owner-operated; about 85% are owner oper-
ated in West Bengal, for example. Individual fish farmers may operate several
ponds.
Carp Consumption and Marketing
1.08      Market Situation and Prices.  In 1977, carp consumption including
spoilage and losses totalled approximately 290,000 tons of which about 220,000
tons were Indian major carp. Among fresh water fish species, the various
species of Indian major carp, particularly catla and rohu, are the most pre-
ferred by Indian consumers. Although vegetarianism predominates in the upper
social classes, about 70% of the Indian population is non-vegetarian, and
surveys indicate that this percentage is rising, due mainly to the changing
dietary habits of the younger generations. The value of fish as a source of
animal protein is increasingly recognized, and fish along with unfertilized
eggs constitute one of the most acceptable non-vegetable items of diet to many
vegetarian households. Fish is widely consumed in most large Indian cities;
for example, a recent study of fish consumption found that 88% of the house-
holds in Calcutta, 59% in Bangalore and 45% in New Delhi consume fish. Annual



- 3 -
fish consumption per capita in these cities is 12 kg, 9 kg and 7 kg, respec-
tively. At present, the national average annual consumption is 4 kg per
capita, compared to fish requirements of 10 kg per capita as estimated by GOI
on the basis of nutritional standards. In some regions of the country, the
proportion of fish consuming population is especially high; for example, 94%
in West Bengal.
1.09      Over the last decade, total fish production and consumption has grown
at nearly 7% annually, nearly three times the annual rate of population growth.
During that period fish prices have maintained rough parity with competing
animal protein sources and increased substantially faster than prices for food
in general and all commodities together. Indian consumers show a marked pre-
ference for carp compared to most other fish species. In view of the rela-
tively high elasticity of demand for carp, it is considered that a 10% annual
increase in carp supply could be absorbed by the market with no adverse
impact on relative prices. Furthermore, while carp is generally preferred by
high income consumers, greater supplies of carp should free more of the lower
value fish species for low income consumers. An increase in carp supplies of
10% annually would call for a total annual supply of about 750,000 tons by
1987. Since capture fishery resources for carp are essentially fully exploited
and in fact show signs of declining, most of the increase, some 460,000 addi-
tional tons annually, would have to come from fish culture. Such an increase
would require an average annual growth rate in cultured carp production of
about 18% during the decade to 1987, a requirement very difficult to fulfill
even with greatly intensified efforts. Market conditions are therefore not
expected to constrain rapid development of carp farming.
1.10      The overall average retail price of fish in Calcutta, the most rep-
resentative fish market in India, advanced from about Rs 6.10 per kilo in
1972 to Rs 12.75 per kilo in 1977, increasing at an average rate of about 16%
annually. In recent years, carp has shown relatively strong prices compared
to other fish varieties. Pond side prices for carp in 1978 averaged about Rs
4.00/kg compared to Rs 3.50/kg in 1977.
1.11     Marketing System and Structure.  About 70% of the carp produced moves
to the larger towns and cities through well organized commercial marketing
channels. Specific channels vary somewhat from place to place, but generally
producers sell directly to a consigner who aggregates catches from adjacent
areas, supplies local land transport, provides marketing capital and arranges
transportation of the fish to a broker in a larger market like Calcutta. The
broker sells to wholesale traders who in turn supply retailers. The remaining
30% of the carp produced is sold locally by the producers or sent to commis-
sion agents and sold wholesale at auction to peddlers or retailers in rural
and small towns. Present commercial channels appear adequate to handle
anticipated growth in carp supply.
1.12      Transportation of inland fish is by rail and truck.  If transporta-
tion time from producer to consumer is more than 24 hours, ice packing is
used. Fresh fish are commonly shipped in bamboo baskets covered and lined
with burlap and holding 30 to 40 kg of fish and 20 kg of ice. The packages
are re-iced on long hauls and re-icing facilities are available along rail



-4-
routes. Compared to marine fish, inland fish require very different trans-
portation, storage and warehouse facilities. Whereas marine fish are landed
at relatively few sites in large, unpredictable batches, inland fishing
grounds and ponds are widely dispersed and require many short hauls of rela-
tively small volume to assembly points for transshipment. Fish from inland
waters, particularly from fish ponds, can be netted when market demand and
prices are right. Inland fish, therefore, generally require less storage
facilities than marine fish, or most other crops for that matter, since the
crop is essentially stored in the pond until needed.
1.13     The private fish trade appears to be reasonably efficient and com-
petitive. The existing marketing network for fresh water fish is integrated
at. the national level with the Calcutta regional market which is the leading
market for inland fish in the country. Supply and demand conditions in that
market set the general price level for carp throughout most of India at any
given time or season. Calcutta is the largest consuming and trading center
in the country for inland fish. Central Calcutta has nine wholesale and about
170 retail fish markets. The largest wholesale market serving the Calcutta
city area is Howrah, which handles about 60% of the wholesale fish marketed in
Calcutta city. Most of the fish marketed at Howrah arrives by rail from other
states. Trade in the Calcutta wholesale fish markets is highly competitive.
In Howrah market alone, there are 150 large brokers, 110 of which handle more
than Rs 1 million in sales annually and ten of which handle sales of more than
Rs 4 million annually. The value of sales in the Howrah market annually totals
about Rs 160 million. Analysis of marketing costs and margins indicates that
the Calcutta market price yields a producer price of about 35% of the consumer
cost. In rural markets, the producer would get about 40% of the consumer price
for whole fish. Marketing margins do not appear significantly different from
comparable margins for similar fishery products in other countries.
Fish Farming Development Policies and Programs
1.14     GOI policy aims at increasing fish farm production, raising fish
farmers' net income and creating employment for the landless rural population.
It is generally agreed that leasing patterns for public water bodies which
discourage private investment, lack of quality seed and low use of inputs
are key constraints to the development of fish farming in India, and GOI gives
a high priority to lifting these constraints through a number of extension,
training, research and credit activities.
1.15     Fish Farmer Development Agencies.  In 1973, GOI began to organize
Fish Farmer Development Agencies (FFDAs) on a pattern similar to the Small
Farmer Development Agencies to spearhead implementation of GOI inland fish-
eries policies and to provide a field mechanism for coordinating the agencies
involved and integrating the various activities connected with fish farming
development throughout the country. To date, 50 FFDAs completely funded by
GOI have been set up at the district level in various States. According to
recent governmental policy decisions, FFDAs in the future will remain as
centrally sponsored schemes, but State governments will bear 50% of the FFDA
costs. At the field level, FFDAs help arrange fish pond leases between
government bodies and private individuals or cooperatives, promote fish
farming, popularize improved techniques, provide training and extension
services, assist in arranging financing and organize fish farmer cooperatives.



-5-
FFDAs also provide a 25% subsidy to selected fish farmers for fish pond
improvements and first-year inputs to help encourage expansion of fish farming
and adoption of improved practices. FFDA staff are generally drawn from State
Fishery Departments and coordinate closely with Fishery Department activities.
In districts where they operate, FFDAs take over most extension responsibili-
ties from the State Fisheries Departments, provide short-term training courses,
and help secure fish seed and administer and supervise credit for fish pond
production expenses. Although FFDA field operations have been underway for
only three or four years, experience to date indicates that the FFDA pattern
of organization can provide an effective vehicle for the proposed project to
promote fish farming development.
1.16     State Fishery Departments.  State Fisheries Departments have res-
ponsibility for implementing State government policies and programs aimed at
developing inland fisheries and, in maritime states, marine fisheries. They
generally have responsibility for extension, research, training, development
of fisheries cooperatives, operation of fish seed farms, and various special
projects. Fish culture extension and development activities are primarily the
responsibility of the State Fishery Departments. Most State Fishery Depart-
ments have a staff which is competent but too small to provide the intensive
extension support necessary for rapid development of fish culture, in addition
to other responsibilities. Fishery Extension Officers are stationed at the
district and sometimes block level. Fishery Departments also operate a variety
of training programs for farmers and youths as a part of their extension
programs. West Bengal, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh operate special training
schools for fish farmers where educated, unemployed youths can take several
weeks training to learn the basics of fish farming. These training programs
are generally undertaken in conjunction with the extension activities. A
recent GOI review of the State fish farming development programs under the
Fifth Five-Year Plan emphasized the need for increased State Fishery Department
involvement in development activities, particularly in expanding FFDA coverage
to more districts, establishing carp hatcheries to increase fish seed produc-
tion in support of increased FFDA operations, and developing and maintaining
fisheries management programs for lakes and large reservoirs.
1.17     Fisheries Training and Education.  The Central Institute for Fishery
Education (CIFE) at Bombay provides most of the fisheries training in India,
and with its subordinate institutions, has trained a large number of fisheries
officers in fish culture techniques and extension. CIFE was established in
1961 under the GOI Department of Agriculture and Rural Development to train gov-
ernment fishery officers for service in the various States, and has a staff of
some 211 members. It has developed a comprehensive program aimed at providing
technical skills for implementing development projects for both inland and
marine fisheries. Most students come from the government service, although a
few candidates are nominees from private industry and foreign countries. CIFE
has adequate laboratory, library and training vessel facilities and maintains
a high standard of training. It offers a two-year post-graduate diploma
course in fishery science, with a syllabus covering fishery biology, fish
processing technology, fisheries administration, economics, fisheries sta-
tistics, marketing and cooperatives. Students receive extensive theoretical
training and practical work. Intake capacity is about 40 candidates per year,
and to date CIFE has trained a total of about 400 students.



-6
1.18     CIFE also conducts lover level training courses at several subordi-
nate establishments. The Inland Fisheries Training Unit at Barrackpore in
West Bengal gives a one-year certificate course in inland fisheries develop-
ment and administration for about 40 candidates a year, and has trained
almost 1,000 students in total.  hle Regional Training Center for Inland
Fisheries at Agra in Uttar Pradesh provides training in inland fish farming
practices with a nine-month certificate course for about 80 candidates per
year, having trained to date about 350 students. At Hyderabad in Andhra
Pradesh, the Central Fishery Extension Training Center gives specialized
in-service training in fish farming extension techniques, methods and practices
at the post-graduate level, mainly for State Fishery Department Extension
Officers. These centrally-sponsored training programs are effective but
provide only a fraction of the trained extension personnel needed at the State
level for rapid development of inland fisheries. The proposed project will
build on existing training activities and strengthen State-level training
capabilities.
1.19      Fisheries Research.  Research on inland fisheries is primarily the
responsibility of the Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI) which
has made a major contribution to fish culture development in India through
its research on induced breeding of carp and composite fish culture.  CIFRI
was established in 1947 and is now part of the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR). Headquartered at Barrackpore, CIFRI has several central
substations and 11 research units in other parts of India, with a total staff
of 652 members. Also based at CIFRI are four all-Indian coordinated research
projects involving cooperative programs with State governments. The principle
objective of CIFRI is to study the application of scientific principles to
maximize fish production from inland waters. CIFRI has adapted induced breed-
ing techniques and developed carp culture practices for optimum fry, fingerling
and fish production in various parts of India. Related research includes
investigations of riverine fish population structure and spawn behavior and the
development of riverine and estuarine fish catch statistics. Virtually all the
highly-trained scientific personnel presently working on fresh water fisheries
development in India have been directly or indirectly associated with the work
of CIFRI, and CIFRI research has provided the technological basis for most of
the current programs aimed at expanding fish farm production in India including
the proposed project.
1.20      Institutional Credit.  As of June 30, 1978, the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation (ARDC) had approved 42 inland fisheries schemes in
various States financed through commercial banks and Land Development Banks for
a total of about Rs 64 million in lending; disbursements under the schemes
totalled only about Rs 8 million. The total for these schemes is small, less
than 1% of total ARDC commitments, and credit demand under the schemes has been
limited by shortages of high quality fish seed, inadequate fishery extension
services and unfavorable lease terms for publicly-owned fish ponds. The new
ARDC III IDA-supported line of credit includes an indicative total for lending
to the inland fisheries subsector totalling about Rs 260 million. In its
schemes, ARDC currently classifies sub-borrowers into low, medium and high
income categories depending on net annual fish farm income (based on 1972
prices). Low income borrowers receive concessionary terms with interest rates
of 9.5% compared to the standard 10.5% rate, and margin money requirements as



low as 5%. Until recently, ARDC loans to fish farmers of all sizes carried a
uniform interest rate of 11%. ARDC also refinances fish pond credit require-
ments under FFDA programs which provide a 25% subsidy as margin money.
Carp Seed Technology
1.21     Carp Seed Industry.  The all-India supply of carp fingerlings or
fingerling equivalents including fry currently totals about 290 million. About
140 million of the 290 million are wild seed collected and used by private
operators, and 150 million are fingerlings produced by 152 State fish seed
farms mostly from spawn collected from rivers. Only a few of these farms
have hatcheries for artificial breeding, accounting for about 8% of the total
spawn supply, and most farms simply raise riverine spawn to marketable size
fingerlings. Of the total fingerling supply, about 200 million fingerlings
are stocked in some 450,000 ha of fish ponds, and about 90 million fingerlings,
mostly from State fish seed farms, are used by State governments for stocking
large lakes and reservoirs which are not included with fish ponds in this
report.
1.22     Most of the supply of fish seed in India originates in the rivers of
the Gangetic basin, particularly in West Bengal and Bihar, largely in the form
of spawn collected by private producers. Of the wild-caught spawn, about 60%
is used by small, private fish seed producers, particularly in West Bengal,
and about 25% is distributed to State-owned fish seed farms. Generally
operated by State Fisheries Departments, State fish seed farms are a principal
source of the fish seed supply used by Fisheries Departments and FFDAs to
promote fish farming. Seed produced by State seed farms is also sold locally
to private users, often at subsidized prices.
1.23     A major share of the spawn sold commercially moves through the
Calcutta fish seed market. About 15% of the total spawn supply is bought by
the Calcutta-based Fish Seed Syndicate Ltd., which was established as a coop-
erative in 1950 to promote the development of the fish seed industry and is
the only commercial operation supplying fish seed on a large scale in the
country. The Fish Seed Syndicate buys spawn and produces marketable size fish
fry. It sells to fish farmers and government entities throughout the country,
in some cases shipping by air for distances over 500 km. In recent years,
shipping of fingerlings oxygen-packed in polyethelene bags has enabled trans-
portation times of up to 48 hours with very low mortalities.
1.24     Overall, the fish seed industry in India is at present almost entirely
dependent on river collection of wild seed. The quantity of spawn supplied
from hatcheries by artificial breeding is small. In recent years, both quantity
and quality of wild capture seed has steadily declined due to deterioration of
natural river habitat caused by water control structures and industrial growth.
Since the mid-1960s, annual spawn collection has fallen by about 30%, and
currently collections contain at best only about 60% carp, the remainder being
undesirable species and predators. In addition, river collections vary widely
from year to year, and collection periods under natural conditions are short.
Although the development of intermediate technologies, primarily bund breeding,
has cushioned the impact of this decline and to some extent filled the gap
between natural seed supplies and demand, the scope for further expansion of



-8-
such techniques is limited. Bund breeding is a system of natural breeding of
carp in captivity which requires special natural conditions which are uncon-
trollable and, unlike fish hatcheries, is not independent of the monsoon
season. Future fish farming development will depend heavily on the development
of a modern fish seed industry based on hatcheries using artificial breeding
under controlled conditions to produce adequate quantities of improved quality
seed, which is a major objective of the proposed project.
1.25     Induced Breeding and Composite Fish Culture.  India has a large and
well-organized body of highly competent aquacultural scientists who have
achieved major breakthroughs in several important technical aspects of fish
culture. Since about 1957, Indian scientists have succeeded in artificially
breeding Asiatic carp, including both major Indian and Chinese carp species,
by applying pituitary hormone injection techniques known as hypophysation,
and have refined and adapted to Indian conditions these techniques for the
reproduction of carp in captivity. This has been an important contribution
to the potential for modernization of carp farming by providing a foundation
for modern carp hatchery development. All Indian major carp species spawn
in rivers and only during the monsoon. Induced breeding makes possible the
production of large quantities of high quality carp seed independently of
the monsoon under controlled conditions, extending the breeding season
to about six months (March through August) compared to the natural spawning
season (June and July). Building on these developments, Indian scientists
carried out large scale research on fish pond management and developed what
is now called "composite fish culture" using the proper combination of carp
species to optimize fish pond productivity. Development of induced breeding
has enabled the production of seed with the optimum combination of desirable
carp species to exploit fish pond productive capabilities more fully and pro-
duce high yields of the most financially attractive mixture of carp species.
Potential for Fish Culture Development
1.26     India has all the conditions necessary for rapid development of fish
farming. It has 1.6 million ha of water bodies potentially suitable for inten-
sive fish farming, and a very large number of fish farmers experienced in fish
farm management. It also has a large number of aquacultural scientists and
technicians specialized in artificial production of carp seed to support a
well planned program of research and development activities. In addition, a
large market exists for carp, as well as a clear need for supplying additional
protein to a large population.
1.27     At present, only about 450,000 ha out of the estimated 1.6 million
ha of potentially suitable water bodies are used for fish farming. Provided
appropriate measures are taken, particularly with respect to tenure practices,
roughly 1.2 million ha remaining unused can be brought under fish farming over
the next 10 to 20 years. In addition, with good pond management and adequate
supplies of high quality seed and complementary inputs, it appears that a high
level of average yields can be achieved for both the existing fish ponds and
the new ponds to be brought under culture, raising yields from an estimated
annual average of 350 kg per ha at present to over 1,200 kg per ha during the
coming decade. This increase in productivity and expansion of fish pond area



-9-
can be accomplished on the basis of a well known and proven technology already
practiced in some parts of India, especially in West Bengal.
Constraints to Fish Farm Development
1.28     Four principle constraints limit rapid development of carp farming
in India: (i) a shortage of carp seed in general and of high quality seed in
particular; (ii) fish pond tenure arrangements which generally permit only
short-term leases and thus discourage farmers from making long-term commit-
ments and investments for improvement of fish ponds; (iii) inadequacy of
extension services at the fish farm level designed to guide farmers in
improving water level control and optimizing the practices of stocking and
applying fertilizer and supplementary feed inputs; and (iv) lack of long-
term credit for fish pond improvements and short-term credit for fish seed,
fertilizer and supplementary inputs. The proposed project would help remove
these constraints.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
2.01      India has most of the necessary elements and a great potential for
rapid expansion of fish farming -- an improved technology, extensive domes-
tic markets, trained personnel, experienced fish farmers and substantial under-
utilized fish pond resources. Lacking, however, are the high quality fish
seed in large quantities and the broad institutional and organizational base
needed to unlock this potential. The situation is analogous to that of food
grain production in the mid-1960s when the introduction of high yielding seed
for wheat and rice triggered a green revolution in agriculture. The proposed
project would provide these missing key elements through construction of modern
fish hatcheries to produce high quality fish seed, and support of substantial
institutional development and strengthening in the inland fisheries subsector.
Objectives and Major Features
2.02      The project would assist GOI and five participating States in their
efforts to implement fish farming development programs. The main objectives
of the project would be to (i) increase carp production in West Bengal, Bihar,
Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, and (ii) provide a basis for the
future commercial development of the carp seed industry in India, which is
essential to increase production of inland fish in the future. The project
would provide: (i) credit to State Fish Seed Development Corporations for
construction of about 27 modern fish hatcheries to be used to produce carp
fingerlings; (ii) credit to fish farmers for improvement of fish farms; and
(iii) funds for strengthening fisheries extension, establishing training
centers and technical assistance.



- 10 -
Project Area
2.03     The project would cover a total of 58 districts in the five project
States of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh (see
project districts listed in Annex 1). The area of fish ponds of 5 ha size
or less in the project districts totals about 258,000 ha, of which about
117,000 ha would be included in the project. The project districts were
selected to be contiguous areas where fish farming is generally practiced
and where marketing and transportation facilities are available.
2.04     Fish Pond Models.  Within the project area, three general fish pond
models (types A, B and C representing typical conditions for project analysis
and cost estimation purposes) would be developed. Details by State are as
follows:
----- Project Districts -------   --- Production Models ----
Project          Number of  Cultivable  Project        Low     Medium       High
States           Districts  Pond Area  Pond Area   Type A   Type B         Type C
(area in '000 ha)
West Bengal        11         137           34           0        3         31
Bihar              17          33           26          10       8           8
Orissa              7          22           16           3        6          7
Madhya Pradesh      6          34           25          16        6          3
Uttar Pradesh      17          32           16           9       4.5         2.5
Total         58        258          117          38       27.5        51.5
The different pond models A, B and C represent respectively low, medium and
high production capabilities.  West Bengal is expected to have by far the
largest share of the Type C high-production fish ponds largely due to the
high concentration of private fish ponds, which account for about 97% of the
fish ponds and 94% of the fish pond area in the project districts in the State.
Differences in production capability under average levels of management are
due, for example, to soil type and fertility, degree of competing water use,
pond water depth and social factors. Fish pond models would require corres-
pondingly low, medium and high stocking rates for fingerlings, intensity of
input used and investment in improvements. Hatchery and fish pond investment
requirements under the project for both fish ponds and hatcheries are derived
from these three models. Fish pond models A, B and C represent average
conditions for the entire project area, and actual fish pond improvement and
input requirements in specific areas may differ from the models, details for
which are given below:
Financed                   Fish Pond
Fish Pond              Fingerling       Year 1        Annual      Investment
Production  Yields   Stocking Rate    Inputs         Input Cost      Cost
Model     Kg/Ha        Nos./Ha        Rs/Ha         Rs/Ha         Rs/Ha
Type A         800        2,500           524          1,154          940
Type B       1,500        3,800           792          2,022        2,772
Type C       2,500        5,000         1,020          6,920        6,202



- 11 -
Fish Hatcheries
2.05     Investments in hatcheries would be designed to remove the constraints
to increased fish farm production in the project area due to inadequate supply
and poor quality of fingerlings for stocking fish ponds. Except for very
limited supplies available from research institutions, the combination of
species for composite culture is unavailable to fish farmers. Project hatch-
eries would produce high quality seed of the carp species required by individual
fish farmers.
2.06     The project would finance in the project States about 27 hatcheries
in 10 ha and 25 ha model sizes, measured in terms of hatchery pond water area.
Project hatcheries would be constructed on a contract basis and operated by a
State-owned Fish Seed Development Corporation to be established in each State,
which would employ suitably qualified engineers for engineering design and
supervision during the construction period. At full development, the hatcher-
ies would produce a total of nearly 460 million carp fingerlings. Details are
given below:
Number of Hatcheries          Million
10 Ha     25 Ha      Total    Fingerlings
West Bengal                5         4          9           158
Bihar                      4         2          6            94
Orissa                     2         2          4            74
Madhya Pradesh             2          2         4            74
Uttar Pradesh              3         1          4            57
Total                16         11         27           457
2.07     All hatcheries would be of conventional design suitable for large-
scale commercial production of Asiatic carp seed and would include an indoor
hatchery unit, earthen ponds, watergates and channels, tubewells (see para
2.08 for iMadhya Pradesh), administrative buildings, staff residences, storage
buildings, perimeter fencing and internal roads (see Maps IBRD 14268 and 14269,
and Charts 20215 through 20220). Each hatchery complex would provide adequate
controlled environment facilities for artificial spawning (hypophysation) of
carp, egg hatching and larval nursing in indoor hatcheries under controlled
water temperature conditions, as well as earthen ponds (approximately 18 and
32 ponds, respectively, for 10 ha and 25 ha hatcheries) for husbanding of
brood stock and rearing of carp fingerlings. About 25% of hatchery pond area
would be used for brood stock, approximately one-third of which would be
replaced each year. Provision would also be made for communications and for
electric power, with auxiliary power facilities to meet critical minimum needs,
if necessary. At full operation, the two model sizes of hatcheries would be
capable of producing 10 million and 27 million fingerlings respectively of 5.0
cm size. In addition, about an equal number of 2.5 cm carp fry could also be
produced to supply fish farmers who are operatiag carp nurseries or raising
fry to marketable size table Eish. The hatcheries could, if necessary,
produce twice as many 2.5 cm fry as compared to 5.0 cm fingerlings.
2.08     Selection of each hatchery site would be based on the results of
soil testing for engineering and fertility analysis, availability of suffi-
cient land for all facilities of the hatchery complex (14 ha for a 10 ha



- 12 -
hatchery and 33 ha for a 25 ha hatchery), demand for fingerlings, availability
of electricity and communications, avoidance of social displacement, and avail-
ability of assured water supplies (see Annex 1, page 2). Details of specific
criteria for selection of hatchery sites were discussed at negotiations and
these will be incorporated in the project banking plan (see para 4.15). An
independent secure source of water supply at the hatchery would be essential
to the comamercial viability of project hatcheries, since they would be expected
to produce fingerlings during the dry season. In all States except Madhya
Pradesh, ground water supplies appear to be adequate. In Madhya Pradesh,
project hatcheries would have to depend on surface water supplies. The Madhya
Pradesh Irrigation Department has indicated that adequate surface water sup-
plies would be available as needed provided hatcheries are located near the
sluice gates of minor tanks commanded by major tanks. Alternatively, water
could be pumped from reservoir dead storage for the hatchery. Water requije-
ments during the critical April to J ne period are estimated at about 2 ft /sec
for each 10 ha hatchery and and 4 ft /sec for each 25 ha hatchery. The Govern-
ment of Madhya Pradesh has assured that adequate surface water supplies will
be made available, and has identified a number of sites for which water sUp-
plies can be assured.
Hatchery Approach Roads
2.09     The project would provide for construction of approach roads linking
project hatcheries with existing communications. Road requirements are esti-
mated to average about three kilometers per hatchery. Road construction would
include design, base formation, metalling, and black topping adequate to pro-
vide an all-weather communication link for the hatchery. Width of the roads
would be about 3.0 meters of bituminous carpet on stone metal over a formation
six meters wide. Road construction in West Bengal would include, where neces-
sary, timber piling bulkheads due to the particularly high watertable condi-
tions prevailing in the project area in that State.  Road constructiorn would
be executed by local contractors selected t'hrough local competitive bidding
and supervised by the State PWD. Arrangements for road maintenance would be
trhe responsibility of PWD.
Fish Farmer Development Agencies
2.10     Under the project, 15 existing Fish Farmer Developmaerit Agericies
(FFDAs) serving 16 districts would be strengt'hened in districts where GOI-
sponsored FFDAs are already operating, and new FFDAs would be established
with State sponsorship to serve the remaining 42 districts. FFDAs would
provide extension services, and assistance to fish farmers in obtaining fish
pond leases on improved terms and credit under the project. FFDAs would pro-
vide a subsidy of up to 25% for fish pond improvement plus first year cash
input costs, depending on budgetary provisions made by GOI and project states.
The subsidy and FFDA establishment costs would be borne by GOI for existing
FFDAs and by the States for new FFDAs.  IDA financing of FFDA incremental
costs for staff and equipment, excluding the subsidy, would be provided to
GOI on standard terms and to the States in accordance with established GOI
procedures for development assistance to States.  FFDA staff and equipment
requirements would be based on an average norm of about 100 ha of fish pond
area to be served by each fisheries extension worker.  This norm wou-ld be



- 13 -
modified by project States according to local conditions, including geograph-
ical location, ownership patterns for fish ponds and fish pond density. FFDAs
would also organize short fish farmer training programs to give practical
training on improved fish culture techniques. Under the current FFDA pattern,
a deputation allowance of up to 20% is provided for personriel assigned to
FFDAs, and this pattern would be continued under the project. FFDAs would
be under the overall direction of the State Director of Fisheries and would
assume complete responsibility for fisheries extension work in the project
areas.
Fish Pond Credit
2.11     The project would provide credit through participating banks (PBs) re-
financed by ARDC to individual fish farmers, groups or cooperatives to finance
investments in fish pond improvements and first year cash inputs. Fish pond
improvement would include earth work for levelling, deepening and shaping the
fish ponds as needed, inlet and outlet structures, and bamboo screens. First
year cash inputs to be financed would generally include fingerlings, oil cake
and fertilizers. Improvements and inputs would be financed together as a
minimum package loan of up to seven years including a grace period of up to
two year. FFDAs would assist borrowers in applying for loans, and where neces-
sary to obtain fish pond improvement loans, would assist borrowers in obtaining
leases for government-owned ponds of at least 10 years. Project States would
determine the specific norms for selection of lease-holders considering both
project promotion requirements and equity, but in general lease-holders would
be members of the communities which have traditionally engaged in fishing and
would fit the Small Farmer Development Agency definition of a small or marginal
farmer. To help promote improved fish culture practices and to assist small
fishermen, FFDAs would also provide to selected borrowers, a subsidy of up to
25% for fish pond improvements plus inputs, which would be channelled through
PBs and disbursed in proportion to the loan. Low-income borrowers selected
to receive the subsidy would be chosen on the basis of procedures determined
by each State government, generally following the pattern of the Small Farmer
Development Agency. All borrowers would be pond owners, or operators with a
pond under a lease of at least 10 years length with specified terms during the
lease period which would ensure adequate incentives to the fish farmer. PBs
would disburse progress payments to the borrower for fish pond improvements,
and directly to suppliers for first year cash inputs when practicable. PBs
in conjunction with FFDAs would certify actual work completed and delivery of
inputs financed. Earthworks would be executed by local labor contracted by
the fish pond operator. Approximately 100,000 fish ponds comprising 117,000
ha would be improved in the project area. Fish ponds included in the project
would generally be perennial ponds. About 75% of the fish farmers in the
project area are expected to seek credit for fish pond improvement and inputs
from institutional sources.
Training Centers for Fisheries Extension
2.12     The project would finance training centers to train extension workers
for FFDAs. New training centers would be established in West Bengal, Bihar
and Uttar Pradesh, while in Madhya Pradesh the existing training center at
Raipur would be strengthened. Orissa would not require a training center
because of the new composite fish culture substation of CIFRI which is being



- 14 -
established at Dhauli under the sponsorship of the Indian Council of Agricul-
tural Research. The substation at Dhauli should be completed by the end of
1980, and along with the existing State training center at Koshala Ganga near
Dhauli, would provide training as needed in Orissa. Training centers would
train primarily extension workers in fish pond culture, providing both basic
and refresher courses and practical applications of fish culture and exten-
sion principles. Interested farmer-demonstrators would also be trained as
needed. Training center investments would include a main building for class-
rooms and offices, quarters for staff and trainees, a guest hostel, vehicles,
audio visual equipment, extension kits and laboratory equipment. State Fish-
ery Departments will appoint suitable qualified staff and operate the training
centers, which will be established by December 31, 1981 during the first two
years of the project, and assurances to that effect were given at negotiations.
Technical Assistance
2.13     Hatchery Engineer and Hatchery Management Specialist.  Technical
assistance under the project would provide for a hatchery engineer consultant
and a hatchery management specialist. To date, most fish hatchery operations
in India have been done on an experimental basis and on a very limited scale,
although commercial fish hatcheries are common in other Asian countries such
as China, Japan and Taiwan. The hatchery engineer would be an individual with
extensive experience in the practical design and construction of carp hatcheries
of the general type envisaged for the project. He would be employed by GOI
and would assist all project States during the early stages of site selection,
detailed hatchery design and development and adapting of designs to local
conditions and sites. He would also review hatchery tender documents, speci-
fications and bid evaluations, and help supervise construction of the hatch-
eries, particularly the first hatcheries in each State, to ensure that
hatchery design and construction is cost-effective and operationally sound.
During the project period, he would be available at the request of project
States or GOI for consultation on hatchery construction problems which may
arise during the course of implementation. The hatchery management specialist
would be an individual with extensive experience in commercial fish hatchery
operations. He would help train hatchery operating staff for the first one
or two hatcheries in each state prior to their completion, and he would assist
with break-in operations of these early hatcheries. He would be employed by
GOI and would be available as needed for consultation on special operational
problems during the project period at the request of the project States. Each
consultant would be available during the project period for a total of about
nine man-months on an intermittent basis and would be internationally recruited
at an estimated cost of about US$8,000 per man-month, including subsistence
and travel.
2.14     Project Preparation.  The project also includes project preparation
for a possible reservoir management project. Composite fish culture based
on high quality carp fingerlings is a proven technology suitable for exploit-
ing India's fish pond resources of some 1.6 million ha. However, an addi-
tional 2.7 million ha of small reservoir and lake resources also exist, for
which no technology for substantially raising yields has yet been proven.
Under the project, a number of small reservoirs which could be controlled for



- 15 -
aquacultural purposes would be selected and a 5 ha carp seed hatchery con-
structed. Predatory fish would be eliminated and the reservoirs sto(ke.1
4ith high quality carp fingerlings. Fingerlinigs, inputs and outputs would
be scientifically monitored to determine the optimum stocking levels and to
provide the basic technical and cost-benefit data needed to determine the
technical and economic feasibility of a possible reservoir management project.
Hatchery and reservoir management operations and data collection would be
undertaken by the Department of Fisheries in the State concerned under tthe
supervision of GOI. If successful, these operations would provide the basis
for compiling a preparation report by GOI in conjunction with the relevant
Department of Fisheries in the State (not one of the project States) where
the hatchery and reservoir project is located.
2.15     Marketing Study.  An all-India fish marketing study is currently
underway at the Indian Institute of Management at Ahmedabad, financed under
the ongoing Gujarat Fisheries Project (Cr 695-IN, Ln 1394-IN). That study
focuses on marine fish marketing, and under this project additional support
would be provided to expand the study to cover inland fish marketing. The
expanded study will collect data on and analyze both the current and expected
domestic market situation for inland fish, and the facilities, structure, eco-
nomics and channels of the inland fish marketing system in India, particularly
in the project area. The study would be completed during the project period
and the results integrated with the ongoing stuidy of marine fish marketing.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost Estimates
3.01      Estimated project costs including duties and taxes would total
Rs 350.5 million (US$40.8 million). Detailed cost estimates, including
duties and taxes estimated at Rs 9.7 million (US$1.1 million), are given
in Annex 2 and summarized below:



- 16 -
Rs millions -----   ---- US$ million ----  % of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
Hatchery Credit
West Bengal            26.3      1.0      27.2      3.1      0.1     3.2      8
Bihar                  16.5      0.6      17.1      1.9      0.1     2.0      5
Orissa                 12.2      0.5      12.7      1.4     0.1      1.5      4
Madhya Pradesh         13.6      0.5      14.1      1.5      0.1      1.6     4
Uttar Pradesh          10.5      0.4      10.9      1.2       -  /a  1.3      3
Sub-total           79.1     3.0      82.0      9.2      0.3      9.5    23
Hatchery Roads
West Bengal            11.9      0.5      12.4      1.4     0.1      1.4      3
Bihar                   5.9      0.2       6.1      0.7       - /a   0.7      2
Orissa                  3.9      0.2       4.1      0.5      - Ia   0.5       1
Madhya Pradesh          3.9      0.2       4.1      0.5       - /a   0.5      1
Uttar Pradesh           3.9      0.2       4.1      0.5      - /a   0.5       1
Sub-total          29.6      1.2      30.8      3.5      0.1      3.6      9
FFDAs
West Bengal             8.6      0.4       9.0      1.0     0.1      1.1      3
Bihar                   9.0      0.4       9.4      1.0     0.1      1.1      3
Orissa                  4.5      0.2       4.7      0.5      -  /a  0.5       1
Madhya Pradesh          5.9      0.3       6.2      0.7       -  /a  0.7      2
Uttar Pradesh           8.0      0.3       8.3      0.9     0.1      1.0      2
Sub-total          36.0      1.6      37.7      4.1      0.3      4.4    11
Fish Pond Credit
West Bengal            35.2       -       35.2      4.1       -      4.1    10
Bihar                  15.1       -       15.1      1.8      -       1.8      4
Orissa                 11.5       -       11.5      1.3      -       1.3      3
Madhya Pradesh         10.0       -       10.0      1.2       -      1.2      3
Uttar Pradesh           7.1       -        7.1      0.8      -       0.8      2
Sub-total          78.8       -       78.8      9.2       -       9.2    22
Training Centers
West Bengal             3.4      0.2       3.6      0.4      -  /a  0.4       1
Bihar                   3.4      0.2       3.6      0.4      -  Ia  0.4       1
Orissa                  -         -         -        -       - Ia   -         -
Madhya Pradesh          1.6      0.1       1.7      0.2       -  Ia  0.2      - /a
Uttar Pradesh           3.4      0.2       3.6      0.4      -  Ta  0.4       1
Sub-total          11.9      0.6      12.6      1.4      0.1      1.5      3
Technical Assistance
Hatchery Engineer       -        0.6       0.6       -      0.1      0.1      - /a
Hatchery Manager        -        0.6       0.6       -      0.1      0.1      - /a
Project Preparation   1.8         -        1.9      0.2       -      0.2      - Ia
Marketing Study         1.8       -        1.8      0.2      -       0.2      - /a
Sub-total           3.6      1.3       4.9      0.4      0.2      0.6      1
Base Cost Estimate    239.2        7.7    246.9    27.8        1.0    28.8    70
Physical Contingencies 27.0        0.4      27.4      3.2       -       3.2     8
Expected Price
Increases               73.6      2.5      76.1     8.5      0.3      8.8    22
Total Project Cost    339.8    10.7    350.5    39.5           1.3    40.8   100
/a   Less than 0.05.



- 17 -
3.02      Cost estimates are based on January 1979 prices.  A physical contin-
gency rate of 20% has been applied to the civil works components of hatcheries
and approach roads; a 15% physical contingency rate was used on civil works
for fish pond improvement and training centers. Annual expected price increase
rates used in estimating total project costs were 7% for civil works and 6%
for equipment during the project period. Expected price increases during the
project period total about 27.7% of total project cost for both local and
foreign components of cost.
3.03      Costs for Fish Hatchery Models.  Carp hatcheries are the most
complex component of the proposed project. Cost estimates for the 10 ha and
25 ha model hatcheries in the project area and for the 5 ha model under tech-
nical assistance are detailed in Annex 2, Tables 4, 5 and 6 and summarized
below:
--- Hatchery Models -------
25 Ha        10 Ha          5 ha
(Rs '000)
Civil Works
Earthwork                       1,737          878            524
Watergates                         386         235            156
Indoor Hatchery                    94           67             49
Water Supply                       393         208            146
Buildings                         484          322            197
Engineering                       309          171            107
Sub-total                    3,403        1,881          1,179
Equipment                            231         188            124
Land                                 330         144             78
Total Base Cost              3,964        2,213          1,381
Estimated water supply costs in Madhya Pradesh would include an additional
Rs 340,000 for the 25 ha hatcheries and Rs 331,000 for the 10 ha hatcheries
to provide water supplies from surface water sources, including construction
of a channel averaging 3 km in length for each hatchery.
3.04      State-owned corporations in project States would operate project
hatcheries, except for the 5 ha hatchery under technical assistance which
would be operated by the Fisheries Department of the selected State. The
estimated annual operating costs for project hatcheries at full development
are detailed in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2 and summarized below:
25 Ha        10 Ha
(Rs '000)
Management, Staff and Labor            144           114
Materials                               58            23
Operation and Maintenance               99            70
Travel, Interest and Miscellaneous    49             31
Total                            350           238



- 18 -
3.05      Costs for Project Fish Pond Credit.  Estimated costs for fish pond
improvements and first year cash inputs total Rs 722 million for the total
project area of 117,000 ha. Since about 25% of the fish farmers involved in
the project are expected to finance improvements and inputs from their own or
non-institutional resources, investment requirements for fish farmers needing
credit would total about Rs 541 million. The amount of fish pond investment
included in the project, Rs 108 million, is calculated to provide a minimum
level of base demand for project fingerlings and would meet only about 20% of
the estimated credit demand. Project lending terms would be the same as exist-
ing ARDC terms for similar types of diversified lending, and ARDC currently
has available substantial resources earmarked for the subsector. Assurances
were given at negotiations that after project funds for fish pond credit
are fully utilized, ARDC would give priority to financing fish pond credit
requirements in the project area from the IDA-supported general lines of
credit.
Financing
3.06      Estimated shares in the financing of project costs are as follows:
Components              Borrowers   PB's   ARDC  GOI/States   IDA  Total
(Rs millions)
Hatcheries                36.3       16.9   30.5        -       37.3  121.0
Approach Roads              -          -      -       10.0      36.5   46.5
Fish Pond Credit          16.9       19.3   34.7        -       42.4  113.3
FPDAs                       -          -      -       10.6      38.7   49.3
Training Centers            -          -      -        3.3      12.2   15.5
Technical Assistance        -             -             -        4.9    4.9
Total                53.2       36.2   65.2      23.9    172.0  350.5
(percent)           (15%)      (10%)  (19%)       (7%)   (49%)  (100%)
3.07      The proposed IDA credit of US$20.0 million would finance about
50% of the estimated total project cost net of duties and taxes. The credit
would cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of US$1.3 million and about
49% of local costs.
Lending Terms and Conditions
3.08      Subvention.  IDA funds for hatchery approach roads (US$4.2 million),
717Dks (U3$4.5 million), extension training centers (US$1.4 million), and tech-
nical assistance (US$0.6 million) would be provided by GOI to the project
States together with GOI's contribution out of its own resources, in accordance
with established GOI procedures for development assistance to the project
States.
3.09      Subloans under the Credit Program.  IDA funds for subloans to Fish
Seed Development Corporations (FSDCs) for fish hatcheries (US$4.3 million),
and to fish pond operators for fish pond improvements and first year cash
inputs (US$4.9 million) would be on-lent by GOI to ARDC. Details of credit



- 19 -
arrangements would be generally consistent with those applicable to other
Bank/IDA financed credit programs administered by ARDC and would include:
qualifying conditions for banks to operate as project participating banks
(PBs); the requirement that FSDCs, PBs, and ARDC maintain separate accounts
for the project; insurance arrangements; debt rescheduling procedures; and
ARDC's obligation to ensure that financial commitments for hatcheries are
made by FSDCs on the basis of IDA procurement guidelines and project provi-
sions. Actions needed by project States to ensure full utilization of project
and ARDC funds to meet credit demand for project hatcheries and fish pond
improvements and inputs would be discussed at negotiations.
3.10      The contributions required from different categories of borrowers
for various investment activities, the fractions to be refinanced and the
annual interest rates chargeable would be in accordance with the following
schedule:
----Fish Pond Credit Categories--------    Hatchery
FFDA          Low       Medium        High      Credit
Contribution              Subsidized - Income        Income       Income   for FSDCs
Borrower/FFDA                25%          5%           10%          15%       30%
PB Subloan                   75%         95%           90%          85%       70%
ARDC Refinancing             --------- 80% of PB subloans -----------------------
GOI Contribution             --------- 55% of ARDC refinancing ------------------
IDA Disbursement             --------- 55% of ARDC refinancing ------------------
Annual Interest Rates
PB Loans                   9.5/10.5%      9.5%         10.5%        10.5%      10.5%
ARDC Refinance             6.5/7.5%       6.5%          7.5%         7.5%       7.5%
GOI Loan to ARDC /b        6.25%         6.25%         6.25%        6.25%      6.75%
IDA to GOI                --------------------- standard ---------------------
/a   FFDA subsidy would be up to 25%.
/b   Repayment of the GOI loan would be 9 years for fish farmer loans and 15
years for hatchery loans with 0.25% interest rebate for timely repayment.
The maximum period of PB loans would be seven years including up to two years
of grace for fish pond credit and 15 years including up to five years of grace
for FSDC carp hatcheries. For fish pond credit, most project borrowers are
expected to have low and medium income levels (up to Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,500,
respectively, of net annual fish farm income based on 1972 prices) and would
qualify for loans covering 95% and 90% of the investment cost. Many of the
low income borrowers, however, are expected to qualify for the FFDA subsidy
of up to 25%, in which case loan coverage would be as low as 75%. Considering
all fish pond credit lending under the project, loan coverage is, therefore,
expected to average about 85%.
3.11      Inflation in India over the past three years has averaged 2.1%
annually. Since inflation is not expected to exceed 5% annually during the
project period, the proposed interest rates to the ultimate borrowers (9.5%
and 10.5%) would be positive in real terms and compare favorably with real



- 20 -
interest rates to ultimate borrowers in other developing countries. Further-
more, the interest rates to be applied under the project would be consistent
with onlending rates for institutional credit in other sectors of the Indian
economy, and are already generally applied to all long-term lending for agri-
cultural purposes.
3.12      Procedures for Sublending.  For hatchery sublending, FSDCs would
submit to participating banks detailed investment proposals for each hatchery
subproject, including soil, topographical, groundwater and surface water sur-
veys, site descriptions, engineering designs and cash flow statements. The
Hatchery Engineering Cell which GOI would establish in its Fisheries Division
(see para 4.02) would examine each design and prepare a technical review to
be used by PBs in subproject appraisal. Engineering design approval of a
hatchery by GOI's Engineering Cell would be a condition of ARDC approval of
investment loans to FSDCs. Following their own appraisal, PBs would submit
the proposals together with supporting documents for approval to ARDC. To
expedite loan approvals ARDC would consider where necessary joint appraisal
of the projects by PBs, GOI's Hatchery Engineering Cell and ARDC. For fish
pond credit, fish farmers guided by FFDA extension workers would submit to
participating banks simple loan applications including information on pond
conditions, lease arrangements, proposed pond improvements and financial
projections. FFDAs would assist fish farmers in filling out and submitting
loan applications, and the FFDA engineering wing would help the farmers in
estimating costs and preparing designs for fish pond improvements and would
provide participating banks with a technical review of the individual pro-
posals. Participating banks would appraise the proposals and submit them
to ARDC for refinancing.
Project Implementation
3.13      The project would be implemented over the five year period from
1980 thrDugh 1985 (Chart 21012). Hatcheries and approach roads would be
constructed simultaneously and completed by the end of 1984 (Chart 20304).
Design and construction time would average about 21 months for each 10 ha
model and about 26 months for each 25 ha model. Brood stock selection and
development and hatchery staff training would be done by FSDCs during hatchery
construction so that the first hatchery in each State would come on stream in
time to supply fingerlings in the third year of the project. FFDAs would pur-
chase equipment and organize, transfer, and train most of their staff during
the first two years. Recruitment of new staff, in addition to staff trans-
ferred from State Fisheries Departments, would be done in proportion to
the development of fish pond area in years three and four. FFDAs would also
undertake preliminary extension and promotion work in year one and begin
intensive extension activities in year two. Lending to fish farmers during
the first two years would concentrate on developing demonstration ponds in
selected areas using seed from existing sources, and would expand rapidly in
year three and later as fingerlings from project hatcheries become available.
Training centers would be completed in the first two years, and training on
a limited scale would begin in year one as soon as initial facilities are
available and before final completion of the training centers. The hatchery
engineer would be available intermittently to assist with hatchery site
selection, and during the early and late design stages and early and late
construction stages for the first two hatcheries in each State and period-
ically after that. The hatchery management specialist would be available



- 21 -
intermittently and on request to train hatchery staff before completion of
construction, and during the early stages of operation and at critical periods
after completion, of the first two hatcheries in each state.
Procurement
3.14      Carp Hatcheries.  Because hatchery sites would be widely dispersed
and individual contracts relatively small, it is most unlikely foreign firms
would be interested in bidding on project hatchery construction. Contracts
for hatchery civil works (totalling US$8.0 million for 27 hatcheries) will,
therefore, be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to IDA administered by the State Fish Seed Development Corpora-
tions. Tender documents and bid evaluations for the first hatchery in each
State and for civil works estimated to cost US$200,000 or more would be re-
viewed by IDA prior to letting of contracts. Equipment for hatcheries (total-
ling US$645,000 for 27 hatcheries) costing US$50,000 or more would be procured
by individual FSDCs through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Equipment costing less than US$50,000 would be procured locally by
FSDCs through normal commercial channels on the basis of quotations received
from interested suppliers with due regard to economy and efficiency. Bulking
of hatchery equipment to enable international competitive bidding would be
impractical due to the diversity and small size of equipment items for each
hatchery, and because of scattered sites and differing timetables for hatchery
construction.
3.15      Hatchery Approach Roads.  The 27 sites would be widely scattered
and the value of the work at each site small, averaging about US$120,000 each.
Contracts for hatchery approach roads would, therefore, be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding according to local procedures which are satisfactory to
IDA, and administered by the Public Works Department in each project State.
Civil works not exceeding an estimated cost of US$50,000 could be done through
force account. Approach roads would be procured in no more than two contracts,
one for earthwork and the other for road formation and surfacing, unless
otherwise agreed by IDA.
3.16      FFDAs.  FFDA cost estimates include no civil works.  Equipment
(totalling US$3.4 million in 57 FFDAs, mostly for vehicles) for FFDAs would be
procured by FFDAs in each of the five States on the basis of local competitive
bidding satisfactory to IDA according to local procedures for equipment costing
US$50,000 or more. Equipment costing less than US$50,000 would be procured by
FFDAs through normal commercial channels on the basis of quotations received
from interested suppliers with due regard to economy and efficiency. Bulking
of FFDA equipment, mostly vehicles, to enable procurement through international
competitive bidding would be impractical due to the diverse needs, development
timetables and locations of individual FFDAs, and the relatively small quanti-
ties required for each FFDA.
3.17      Fish Pond Improvements.  Works are small, widely scattered and
numerous and would be procured by individual fish farmers according to their
preference through local contractors or by direct hire of labor.
3.18      Training Centers.  Civil works would be small (US$209,000 each)
and it is most unlikely that foreign firms would be interested in such small



- 22 -
individual contracts. Contracts for this work would, therefore, be awarded
through local competitive bidding in accordance with standard procedures used
in each State and administered by the State Fisheries Department. Equipment
for training centers (US$203,000 for each center) costing US$50,000 or more
would be procured by State Fisheries Departments through local competitive
bidding satisfactory to IDA. Equipment costing less than US$50,000 would be
procured locally by Fisheries Departments through normal commercial channels
on the basis of quotations received from interested suppliers with due regard
for economy and efficiency. Bulking of training center equipment for inter-
national competitive bidding would not be feasible due to the diversity and
relatively small size of individual equipment items required, and because
each State would have only one project training center.
Disbursements
3.19      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be in accordance with the
following schedule:
(i) 55% (about US$9.3 million) of ARDC disbursements against
PB loans for project hatcheries and fish pond credit;
(ii)  75% (about US$10.1 million) of expenditures on approach
roads for project hatcheries, FFDAs for incremental staff
and vehicles, and training centers; and
(iii)  100% (about US$0.6 million) of expenditures on technical
assistance (consultants, project preparation and marketing
study).
3.20      Disbursements under (ii) and (iii) would be made against appropriate
documentation and would not be made against any land costs. Disbursements
under (i) would be against ARDC certified statements and certificates of expen-
ditures for loans made by PBs and financed by ARDC. Documents relating to (i)
would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by ARDC and
available for inspection by IDA during project supervision. A quarterly
schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 5.
Accounts and Audits
3.21      Separate accounts would be maintained for all project expenditures
by all entities involved in project implementation. Accounts for activities
listed under (ii) and (iii) of para 3.19 would be subject to standard govern-
ment control and auditing procedures, which are satisfactory. For accounts
under (i), special audit requirements would not be necessary because audited
ARDC accounts are sent to IDA/Bank each year as a requirement of ongoing
IDA/Bank projects and ARDC requires participating banks to maintain separate
accounts for each approved subloan and to have these accounts audited. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that the above arrangements would be
employed. Assurances were also obtained that FSDCs would maintain separate
accounts for project investments, that FSDC Balance Sheets, Profit-Loss
accounts and separate project accounts would be audited each year by qualified



- 23 -
auditors acceptable to IDA, and that copies of the audit reports and audited
accounts would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of each finan-
cial year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      Two Bank-group financed projects (Ln 1273-IN and Cr 816-IN) are
currently assisting with the development of the foodgrain seed industry in
India. In contrast to the agricultural seed industry, however, the fish seed
industry does not have a well established institutional framework for devel-
opment, and a considerable effort in institution building under the project
would be necessary. It is expected that these institution building efforts
will have a long-run positive impact in facilitating future inland fisheries
development and projects. This multi-State project would be coordinated by a
Project Unit in the Fisheries Division of the GOI Ministry of Agriculture,
under the overall guidance of a Central Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
which would be established to guide and review project activities in the
participating States.  State Fisheries Departments would establish State
Project Units which would be responsible for implementation of specific proj-
ects in the individual States, under the overall guidance of State Monitoring
and Coordination Committees. States would establish Fish Seed Development
Corporations to construct and operate project hatcheries and market finger-
lings. Existing Fish Farmer Development Agencies would be strengthened and
new ones established in project districts under the overall direction of the
State Director of Fisheries to facilitate expansion of fish farm production.
Participating Banks with ARDC refinancing would finance hatchery construction
and credit for fish farmers.
Coordination and Implementation
4.02      GOI Central Project Unit.  To enable GOI to supervise and coordinate
project implementation effectively, the Fisheries Division of the GOI Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Rural Development would establish a Central Project
Unit (CPU). In addition, with the growing emphasis on inland fisheries devel-
opment and increased work load and responsibilities generated by the project,
upgrading the present inland fisheries section to a subdivision headed by an
officer at the appropriate level is needed, and was discussed at negotiations.
To head CPU, GOI would appoint on a full-time basis an officer of the Deputy
Commissioner level whose duties would be exclusively to manage CPU, and who
would have sufficient staff to: coordinate project activities among States
and prepare quarterly progress reports on all project components; supervise
operations of GOI-sponsored FFDAs and assist project States in establishing
new FFDAs; monitor availability of credit for fish pond improvement and assist
in eliminating credit shortages; review fingerling production and distribution
and provide guidance in fish seed marketing and logistics; and provide support
to FFDAs and FSDCs for the development of effective financial and logistical
information systems. Under technical assistance, CPU would recruit interna-
tionally and employ a hatchery engineer by April 30, 1980 and a hatchery
management specialist by April 30, 1981, and assurances to this effect were



- 24 -
given at negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that CPU would design
and supervise activities for reservoir management project preparation, with
work plans and timetable for studies and hatchery construction to be developed
in conjunction with the relevant State Fisheries Department by June 30, 1980;
and that it would contract with the Indian Institute of Management at Ahmadabad
for the marketing study by April 30, 1980. CPU would have a Hatchery Engineer-
ing Cell to which the consultant hatchery engineer under technical assistance
would be attached. The cell would review proposed hatchery sites, provide
active guidance on hatchery design to FSDCs, certify the technical soundness
of each design before a hatchery proposal is submitted to the participating
banks for financing, and assist in overall supervision of hatchery construction.
The proposed organization pattern for CPU would include units for FFDAs, moni-
toring hatchery operations and credit, and hatchery engineering (see Chart
20293). Assurances were given at negotiations that GOI would appoint suitably
qualified key staff to head CPU sections for FFDAs, monitoring and hatchery
engineering, and CPU would develop in conjunction with project States detailed
work plans and timetables for project implementation by June 30, 1980. A
condition of credit effectiveness for the project is the establishment by
GOI of CPU with responsibilities and initial staff satisfactory to IDA, and
appointment of a full-time officer at the Deputy Commissioner level to head
CPU.
4.03      GOI Central Monitoring and Coordination Committee.  To oversee and
coordinate overall implementation of the project at the policy level, a Central
Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (CMCC) in the Ministry of Agriculture
would be established by GOI. CMCC would be chaired by the GOI Secretary for
Agriculture. The CMCC secretary would be the Deputy Commissioner in charge
of CPU. Other members of CMCC would include the following or their represent-
atives: GOI Secretary for Finance; Secretaries in charge of Fisheries and
Directors of Fisheries in the participating States; and Managing Directors
of State FSDCs, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and ARDC. Secre-
tariat Services for CMCC would be provided by CPU (para 4.02). CMCC would
provide interagency coordination and policy guidance for: physical implemen-
tation of the project; flow of finance; procurement; monitoring of FFDA
performance; and assessment of needs and requirements to enhance fish farming
development. Meetings would be held quarterly. Establishment of CMCC would
be a condition of credit effectiveness for the project.
4.04      State Project Units.  Under the project, each participating State
would form a State Project Unit (SPU) under the Director of Fisheries (see
Chart 20310). SPUs would be headed by an officer not less than Joint Director
level reporting directly to the Director of Fisheries. In each State, SPU
would generally oversee and coordinate all phases of project implementation.
It would: assist FFDAs in developing training and extension programs and
monitor and supervise FFDA activities; construct and operate the project
training center; assist in efforts to improve lease terms and assure adequate
and timely credit to fish farmers; monitor fish seed production quality and
acceptance by fish farmers; review FFDA and FSDC work plans; and analyze
and report on project implementation progress in the State. SPU would also
provide to CPU as needed basic data on project implementation to enable ade-
quate monitoring of project progress at the central level, and would prepare
quarterly reports analyzing project progress to be provided to IDA through
GOI. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that each State government



- 25 -
would appoint suitably qualified key staff to head SPU sections for FFDAs
and training and monitoring, and that by May 31, 1980, SPU would in conjunc-
tion with CPU develop detailed work plans and timetables for project imple-
mentation in the State. A condition of credit disbursement for each State
would be the establishment by April 30, 1980 by the State government of SPU
with key staff and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, and headed by an
officer not below the rank of Joint Director.
4.05      State Monitoring and Coordination Committees.  Each participating
State would establish a State Monitoring and Coordination-Committee (SMCC)
which would be chaired by the State Secretary in charge of fisheries. The
Secretary of the SMCC would be the Director of Fisheries or the officer
heading the SPU which would be established under the Fisheries Department.
Membership of SMCC would include the following or their representatives:
Secretary for Finance; FFDA Chief Executive Officers (three on rotation);
Managing Director of FSDC; Director of Fisheries; the Regional Director
of ARDC; participating banks; Secretary for Cooperatives; Secretary for
Panchayats; Chief Engineers for the Departments of Public Works and Irriga-
tion; other State government department heads as needed; GOI; and fish
farmers.  SMCC would:   provide policy level guidance; determine norms for
selection of lease-holders for government-owned ponds; define general criteria
for selection of sub-borrowers who would receive the FFDA subsidy and deter-
mination of the size of the subsidy up to 25%; monitor project progress; and
coordinate activities of the various project agencies to assure speedy imple-
mentation and maximum assistance and support to fish farmers. Secretariat
services to SMCC would be provided by SPU (para 4.04), which would prepare
reports discussing project progress and implementation problems prior to each
quarterly SMCC meeting. Establishment by April 30, 1980 of State-level
SMCCs would be a condition of credit disbursement for each State.
4.06      Fish Seed Development Corporations.  Each State would establish a
legally and financially independent Fish Seed Development Corporation (FSDC).
FSDCs would play a key role in the project, constructing and operating hatch-
eries and marketing fingerlings. All States except Madhya Pradesh would
established FSDCs under the Indian Companies Act of 1956. Madhya Pradesh has
established an FSDC under an independent State ordinance, Madhya Pradesh Ordi-
nance Number 3 of 1979 titled Madhya Pradesh Rajya Matsya Vikas Nigam Adhyadesh.
In West Bengal, FSDC would be an independent subsidiary wholly owned by the
existing State-owned corporation, the State Fisheries Development Corporation.
FSDC equity share capital of at least 30% of total project hatchery investment
costs plus an additional Rs 1 million would be subscribed by State governments.
In West Bengal, the State government would hold a like amount of share capital
through the existing parent corporation. During the project period, FSDCs
would limit their activities primarily to production, promotion and marketing
of carp seed.
4.07      Each FSDC would be managed by a Board of Directors comprising about
12 members. The Chairman of the Board would be the State Minister or the
Secretary in charge of fisheries. Other members would include: the Managing



- 26 -
Director of FSDC who would also act as secretary to the Board; Chief Execu-
tive Officers of FFDAs (three on rotation); representatives of other State
government departments associated with the project as needed; the partici-
pating banks; and GOI. Major responsibilities of the Board would be to define
generally the FSDC production program, determine selling prices for fish seed,
approve investment proposals including financing arrangements, define personnel
policies, and approve accounts and declare dividends while maintaining ade-
quate financial reserves.
4.08      FSDCs would be managed on a commercial basis.  Each State govern-
ment, on recommendation of the FSDC Board, would appoint a full-time Managing
Director responsible for day-to-day operations who would have the necessary
powers to enable him to discharge his responsibilities as Chief Executive of
FSDC. FSDCs would function independently from government departments. The
Managing Director would work within the policy guidelines set by the Board of
Directors and report to the Board Chairman, but otherwise have independence
and authority in all operational matters sufficient to ensure efficient and
profitable operations.
4.09      The Managing Director would be supported by Senior Executive
Managers of the FSDC Divisions for Production, Marketing and Finance
(Chart 20294). An Executive Engineer on deputation with assistants and
support staff would assist the Managing Director during the hatchery con-
struction period and head a hatchery engineering cell to handle design,
procurement and construction supervision of hatcheries, in close coordination
with the engineering staff of GOI's Central Project Unit. Personnel policies,
particularly for key positions, would aim at attracting and keeping employees
of high caliber and performance. FSDC would recruit non-clerical grades on
the basis of national advertisement and selection. To ensure continuity of
leadership, the Managing Director would not be changed in less than two years
except in cases of inadequate performance. FSDC would carry out annual per-
formance reviews for all staff, and salary administration would be flexible
to reward good performance. Corporate staff size would be small to minimize
overhead costs (see Annex 3, Table 3).
4.10      A condition of credit disbursement for each State would be (i) estab-
lishment under the Indian Companies Act of the FSDCs with memoranda and articles
satisfactory to IDA, or in Madhya Pradesh under an independent act satisfactory
to IDA, (ii) appointment of a managing director, and (iii) contribution of
Rs 1 million initial equity share capital for each FSDC, all to be completed
by April 30, 1980 (see para 4.06). Assurances were given at negotiations
that State governments would ensure that FSDCs would limit their activities
primarily to fish seed production, promotion and marketing during the project
period; that the FSDC memoranda and articles or the Madhya Pradesh Act would
not be changed without consultation with IDA; and that additional FSDC equity
share capital equal to 30% of hatchery investment costs would be provided as
needed to enable hatchery construction. Assurances were also given that the
FSDC Executive Engineer would be appointed by May 31, 1980, and the Senior
Executive Managers by June 30, 1981. Terms of Reference for the four senior
management and executive engineeer positions were discussed with State govern-
ments during negotiations. All senior FSDC management would have demonstrated
management experience, and the Managing Director or Senior Executive Managers



- 27 -
would have commercial experience. Assurances were obtained that FSDCs would
select the first two hatchery sites by May 31, 1980 and all hatchery sites by
September 30, 1980. State-operated fish seed farms would supply fingerlings
to FSDCs before FSDC hatcheries come on stream to enable FSDCs to develop
their marketing systems, and assurances were also obtained that after FSDC
hatcheries come on stream, State-operated fish farms would not sell finger-
lings at subsidized rates lower than FSDC fingerling prices.
4.11      Fish Farmer Development Agencies.  Fish Farmer Development Agencies
(FFDAs) would be established in project districts to assist with improvement
of lease terms, help fish farmers to obtain institutional finance and provide
intensive extension services. FFDAs would be registered under the Societies
Registration Act and operated under the direction of a Managing Committee
chaired by the District Collector of the respective project district. Other
members of the Committee would include: the local Deputy Director of Fish-
eries; the local Executive Engineer for Irrigation; District Cooperatives
Officer; District Panchayat Officer; the Chief Executive Officer of the FFDA;
and representatives of the PBs and fish farmers.  The FFDA Chief Executive
Officer who would be in charge of day-to-day operations of the agency would
also act as Secretary to the Committee. The Committee would meet at least
bi-monthly and would have overall responsibility for: ensuring that SMCC
guidelines are followed in the selection of ponds for improvement with FFDA
subsidy assistance and selection of fish farmers who would be trained and
who would receive leases for government-owned fish ponds; approval of FFDA
training, extension and pond improvement programs and budget proposals; review
of and assistance with problems concerning fish marketing and input and credit
supply; and appointment of staff.
4.12      The FFDA Chief Executive Officer would be appointed by the State
government at the level of at least Assistant Director. Each FFDA would have
three operational wings to assist the Chief Executive Officer -- extension,
fish pond engineering and demonstration and training. Staffing of the
operational wings would be proportional to the project area and the number
of fish farms to be covered by the project (see Annex 2, Table 9). The State
governments would transfer to the FFDAs extension officers and support staff
already working for the Fisheries Departments in the project areas, and FFDAs
would in addition employ as needed new recruits who would receive training as
needed at fisheries training centers in each State. Overall, for the project,
new recruitment is expected to average about 40% of FFDA positions, although
for some States and FFDAs, the incremental staff requirements may be somewhat
higher, depending on local conditions. The number of extension workers would
be built up over a time as project area coverage increases (see para 3.13).
GOI and State budgetary provisions for FFDAs would include a subsidy to
selected borrowers of up to 25% for fish pond improvements and first-year
inputs which would be channeled through the banking system in conjunction
with the loan for fish pond improvements. The subsidy is similar to that of
the Small Farmer Develpment Agencies and is justified in view of its proven
effectiveness in the present FFDA program and the need to promote rapid
adoption of modern fish farming technology in the project area. Assurances
were given at negotiations that GOI and project States would fund, operate
and expand where necessary ongoing FFDAs in project districts, and would
establish and fund FFDAs in all other project districts by March 31, 1981.



- 28 -
4.13      Public Works Departments.  Public Works Departments (PWDs) in all
project States are experienced and well established. Assurances were given
at negotiations that PWDs would provide for design, construction supervision,
and maintenance of hatchery approach roads, which would be constructed con-
currently with hatchery construction on a contract basis.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14      Monitoring and evaluation is an important component of this project,
which is the first of its kind in India_. In addition to normal progress
reporting, monitoring and evaluation would cover fish pond leasing and owner-
ship patterns, intensity of competitive input and water use, market prices,
and adequacy of marketing facilities and infrastructure. On the basis of the
detailed project implementation plan, CPU in the GOI Fisheries Division would
monitor and compare actual with expected project progress. SPUs established
in the State Fisheries Departments would provide basic data and State-specific
analysis for CPU, which would coordinate and unify monitoring and evaluation
efforts, and prepare reports on overall project progress. FSDCs, FFDAs and
other project entities would cooperate with SPUs in supplying data as requested.
SPUs would provide to CPU quarterly progress reports covering various project
components, including where applicable information on tendering, bidding,
procurement and disbursements and also specific information on departmental
staffing as related to project activities, including FFDAs. In addition, each
report would provide specific data on the FSDCs, including staffing, progress,
activities and financial performance. CPU would provide to IDA quarterly
reports based on data from project States, along with the SPU quarterly
progress reports, and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotia-
tions. Progress reports and periodic IDA supervision missions would help to
ensure the adequacy of monitoring and evaluation, to anticipate, identify and
evaluate problems, and to take actions necessary. CPU, in conjunction with
SPUs would also provide to IDA a completion report on the project shortly
after the IDA credit is closed. The completion report would include measure-
ment of the impact of various project components and the extent to which
the project produces benefits as assumed at appraisal, and would be designed
to provide information and analysis on conditions before the project, changes
occurring during the project and conditions after project completion.
Credit Organization
4.15      Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation.  ARDC would be
responsible for: (i) refinancing loans by participating banks (PBs) to FSDCs
for project fish hatcheries; (ii) refinancing loans by PBs to individuals,
groups or cooperatives for fish pond improvement and financing of first year
cash inputs; and (iii) assisting PBs and prospective borrowers to prepare and
evaluate investment plans. ARDC would prepare a project banking plan which
is a standard feature of other Bank Group operations involving ARDC, and it
is a condition of credit disbursement for each State that the banking plan
for that State is prepared and acceptable to IDA. At this time, ARDC is
operating satisfactorily in some 35 IDA-assisted projects in the agricultural



- 29 -
sector. 1/ The banking plan prepared by ARDC would specify the participating
commercial banks, detail the lending arrangements between GOI and ARDC, ARDC
and PBs and final borrowers, specify the engineering and fisheries staff
requirements of PBs, provide for joint appraisal and engineering approval
of hatcheries by CPU, and specify criteria for selection of hatchery sites.
A condition of credit effectiveness for the project is agreement between GOI
and ARDC on financial arrangements for financing project credit components.
4.16       Institutional Assistance.  Under the project, PBs would provide
credit to FSDCs for hatchery development, and to fish farmers for fish pond
improvements and first-year cash inputs. ARDC would select PBs in consulta-
tion with FSDCs and FFDAs. PBs would include commercial banks and Regional
Rural Banks for hatchery loans, and in addition Land Development Banks for
fish pond lending. Sufficient short-term credit is available as needed from
institutional sources to meet hatchery and fish farm working capital needs
in the project area, and provision for short-term credit under the project
is not necessary. A subsidy of up to 25% for fish pond improvement and first-
year inputs would be provided to selected borrowers by FFDAs in conjunction
with a fish pond improvement loan. The cost of the subsidy would be borne
equally by GOI and the State governments. Assurances were given at negotia-
tions that, to facilitate PB lending to fish farmers operating fish ponds
leased from government entities, project States would take steps necessary
to establish 10 year lease terms in the project areas by June 30, 1980.
V. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Carp Seed Production
5.01      It is clear from past trends of carp seed production and technology
development that traditional methods of wild seed collection from rivers will
gradually be phased out as collections fall. More advanced existing technolo-
gies, such as bund breeding, can compensate for such losses to some extent but
have relatively limited scope for expansion in the future. If fish farming
is to reach its potential, seed production from efficient, modern carp hatch-
eries will have to be developed to supplement and eventually replace other
fish seed sources. Project hatcheries will play a major role in the future
development of fish farming by increasing the amount, reliability and quality
of carp seed supplies. At full development, production from project hatcheries
would total about 457 million fingerlings valued at some Rs 39 million in 1979
prices. From the start of the project, seed production is expected to increase
as follows:
1/   For the most recent appraisal of ARDC, see Third Agricultural Refinace
and Development Corporation Credit Project, Report Number 2404a-IN,
April 1979 for an IDA Credit totalling US$250 million.



- 30 -
---------- Year From Start of Project ----------
1     2     3    4      5      6    7 and later
(milion 5.0 cm fingerlings)n
Species of Carp
Silver                  -      -     23   60    91   101         110
Catla                   -      -      13   32    49    55         62
Rohu                    -      -      16   40    60    68         72
Mrigal                   -     -      32   82   125   140        143
Grass                   -      -       3    8    11    13         20
Common                  -      -     11   27    42    47         50
Total              -      -       98  249   378   424      457
5.02      Seed produced and marketed by project hatcheries would be uniformly
of high quality and of specified species and standardized sizes. It would
contain no undesirable or predatory species, and it would be produced from
pure strains of disease and parasite free brood stock. Size grading would
comprise fry of about 2.5 cm size and fingerlings of about 5.0 cm and 9.0 cm
sizes, with 5.0 cm fingerlings as the standard size. Seed to be transported
over long distances would be packed in sealed polyethylene bags filled with
water and oxygen to ensure high survival rates of the delivered product. Over
time, hatcheries would improve brood stock quality by selecting the fastest
growing and most robust fingerlings of the extra large 9.0 cm size for devel-
opment of brood stock, one-third of which would be replaced each year.
5.03      Unlike wild seed collections, carp seed from project hatcheries
would be marketed throughout much of the year. Hormone materials for induced
breeding would be extracted from the pituitary glands of common carp, and if
desirable corionic gonadotropin could be imported. Using induced breeding
techniques under controlled environment conditions, project hatcheries would be
able to produce spawn about two or three months prior to the normal spawning
season. Project hatcheries would market carp seed of various sizes in accord-
ance with the seasonal demand of fish farmers, raising or stunting fingerlings
as necessary.
5.04      Carp seed prices vary considerably from year to year and according
to the variety of carp due to fluctuations of market demand and supply. Along
with maintenance of brood stock, the major costs for carp seed production are
the expenses involved in raising the seed from hatchlings to fingerlings.
These costs are reasonably constant. The fluctuations in market prices for
carp seed have been influenced primarily by variations in the catch of spawn
from the rivers and, to some extent, by market imperfections since the Fish
Seed Syndicate in Calcutta is the only large-scale, commercial fish seed
operation in the country. Project hatcheries are expected to both improve
quality and stabilize prices in fish seed markets.
Carp Production
5.05      At full development in year seven, annual incremental carp produc-
tion generated by the project in the project area is expected to total about
200,000 tons valued at some Rs 800 million in 1979 prices. Present produc-
tion in the project States is estimated at about 100,000 tons.



- 31 -
Marketing
5.06      Project carp fingerlings would be marketed in the project area by
FSDCs in conjunction with FFDA extension activities. Incremental carp produc-
tion generated by the project would be marketed through the existing private
marketing system or sold locally by individual fish farmers. Project areas
project would increase production of carp in India by about 68%, which implies
an average annual rate of growth of about 7%, roughly the same rate as for
growth in total fish consumption in India during the last decade (see para
1.09). Considering that significant growth in inland capture fisheries or wild
collection of seed are unlikely in the future, the carp market is expected to
be able to absorb such an increase easily. Carp is a preferred species of fish
with a relatively high elasticity of demand, and future per capita income
growth, particularly in the industrializing growth centers of eastern India, is
expected to shift demand further in favor of carp. In addition, the proportion
of the population which eats fish is rising steadily, fresh water fish is
readily accepted by Indian consumers, and consumer awareness of fish as an
important source of protein is growing. Further, under the project, production
units would be close to local consumption centers, and seasonality of supply
would be reduced.
Prices
5.07      Prices used for project financial projections are based on average
pond side prices received by fish farmers during 1978. Given the expected
growth in fish demand, especially with respect to carp which is a highly pre-
ferred species, and considering the increasing proportion of non-vegetarians
in the population, the use of these prices held constant in real terms for
the period of project analysis is reasonable. Prices used average Rs 4 per kg
or Rs 4,000 (Us$465) per ton at the pond side, for high value species of carp
ranging in size from about 0.3 kg to 1.2 kg depending on species, compared to
retail prices for the same fish ranging from about Rs 10 to Rs 16 per kg (see
Annex 3, Table 7). As fish farmers shift from low quality seed of mixed,
low-value species to pure seed of high-value species, pond-side prices averaged
for all species and all fish pond models are expected to rise from Rs 2.90 to
Rs 4 per kg at full development. For fingerlings, the project's intermediate
product, prices used average Rs 85 per 1,000 fingerlings. Prices for fish
relative to other animal protein sources are expected to remain essentially
constant during the period of project analysis.
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
6.01      Project financial benefits would consist primarily of (i) the
value of the incremental carp production resulting from the use of project
seed, investments in fish ponds improvements and more intensive extension
services, and (ii) the value of the high quality carp fingerlings produced
by project hatcheries. At full development, proposed project investments are
expected to yield incremental production valued at about Rs 677 million for
carp and Rs 39 million for fingerlings.



-32 -
6.02      Project investments in components which warrant separate financial
calculations (US$26.2 million or 63% of total project cost for hatcheries,
FSDCs and fish farms) yield the following financial rates of return:
--- Hatcheries ---          Selected    ---- Fish Farm Models ----
10 Ha         25 Ha           FSDC       A             B            C
22          37               21        55           41          27
Estimated rates of return are based on cash flow projections shown in Annex 3.
The selected FSDC is based on Uttar Pradesh which, because of the expected
pattern of fingerling demand in the State, has the least financial capability
to support corporate overhead costs.
Economic Analysis
6.03     The economic analysis for the project is based on financial data,
modified as indicated below (see para 6.04). The economic rate of return for
the project investment as a whole (Rs 351.4 or 99% of total project cost) is
estimated at 42%. A 20% reduction in benefits would reduce the economic rate
of return to 22%, while a 20% cost overrun in hatchery and fish pond invest-
ment costs would reduce the rate of return to 37%. A combined 20% reduction
in benefits and 20% cost overrun in hatchery and fish pond investments would
reduce the rate of return to 19%. With benefits lagged one year, the project's
rate of return would be 22%. At a 12% opportunity cost of capital, switching
values would be 29% for benefits and 243% for project costs. See Annex 4 for
details of the economic analysis.
6.04      In the economic analysis, a foreign exchange premium of 1.16
(Rs 10 per US$1.00) was used to approximate the economic value to the economy
of foreign exchange used indirectly and directly by the project. An average
economic wage rate of 70% of the financial wage rate was used in the economic
analysis to approximate the economic cost of labor used in project construc-
tion and operations. The project area is generally located in regions of
relatively high population density and underemployment, and analysis of
estimated agricultural labor supply and demand conditions in various Indian
agricultural projects indicates that the economic cost of unskilled agricul-
tural labor under such conditions generally ranges from about 50% to 70% of
the financial rate. Project costs in the economic analysis exclude technical
assistance for project preparation and the marketing study, which are not
necessary for project implementation but are oriented toward future inland
fisheries development. Operating costs include fish pond lease costs as an
estimate of the value of fish pond land and water.
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.05      The primary benefits expected from the project would be the pro-
duction and sale of some 200,000 tons of carp. For producers, the project
would raise income and living standards for about 100,000 fish farm families,
mostly low income members of the rural agricultural community. For consumers,
it would significantly increase the supply of high quality protein and improve
nutritional standards. Even considering outside income, which would not be
significantly affected by the project, fish farmer incomes are generally



- 33 -
below poverty levels. Annual net income from fish farming for the average
fish farm family in the project area would increase from about Rs 500 without
the project to about Rs 2,400 with the project in 1978 prices. The project
would provide substantial additional employment, comprising about 4,000
permanent jobs for unskilled labor and 10,000 jobs for part-time unskilled
and surplus family labor in fish farming, about 4,000 full-time jobs in fish
marketing, and a total of about 230,000 man-years of labor for earthwork in
hatchery construction and fish farm improvement during the project period.
Long-term Development Impact
6.06      In the long-term perhaps the most important contribution of the
project would be its expected effect on the development of fish farming in
India. At present, fish culture and production is limited by inadequate sup-
plies and poor quality of seed. The project would lead the way in developing
and modernizing the fish seed industry in India, which is essential for future
growth in fish farming. This is particularly important, given the increasingly
severe limitations on wild capture inland fisheries and seed collections due
to habitat deterioration.
Risks
6.07      The principal risks of the project relate to institution building
with respect to establishment of FSDCs, and to hatchery water supply in Madhya
Pradesh. FSDCs will play a vital role in the operation of project hatcheries,
in both providing an adequate supply of fingerlings and proving the commercial
viability of fish hatchery operations. However, the FSDCs are untried and
there is a risk that they will need more time to build up the managerial
competence than is now envisaged. This is one of the reasons why hatchery
management consultant is considered essential to ensure the efficient opera-
tion of project hatcheries and effective marketing of fingerlings. The neces-
sary assurances to achieve these objectives were obtained at negotiations (see
para 4.10).
6.08      Unlike the other project States, Madhya Pradesh has very limited
supplies of groundwater available for hatchery water supplies. However, sur-
face water supplies have been assured by the State government, either directly
from irrigation reservoirs or pumping from reservoir dead storage. Adequate
water supplies during the dry season are essential for the hatcheries which
would produce fingerlings during the April-to-June dry season, and the risk
is that during years of extreme water scarcity, sufficient surface water may
not be available to the hatcheries at critical periods. With adequate safe-
guards (see para 2.08) these risks are justified in view of the severe short-
ages of fingerlings in the State and the potential benefit from proving the
feasibility of hatchery development under difficult water supply conditions.
Environmental Impact
6.09      The proposed project would have a positive effect on the environ-
ment. At present, fallow and underutilized water bodies are often breeding



- 34 -
grounds for mosquitoes which carry malaria. The project would reduce the
number of such water bodies, which would no longer be breeding grounds for
disease but would instead be put to productive use.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances have been obtained that:
(i)  GOI will:
(a) appoint by April 30, 1980 suitably qualified key staff
to head CPU sections dealing with FFDAs, monitoring
and hatchery engineering (para 4.02);
(b) develop by June 30, 1980 in conjunction with each par-
ticipating State government detailed work plans and
timetables for implementation of the project (para 4.02);
(c) hire by April 30, 1980 for the hatchery engineering
cell of CPU a suitably qualified hatchery engineering
consultant acceptable to IDA, experienced in design and
construction of hatcheries of the type and design speci-
fied in the project (para 4.02);
(d) hire by April 30, 1981 a suitably qualified hatchery
management specialist acceptable to IDA experienced in
the optimum operation of hatcheries of the type speci-
fied in the project (para 4.02);
(e) design, arrange for and supervise reservoir management
project preparation, with work plans and timetable for
research and hatchery construction to be developed in
conjunction with the selected State Fisheries Depart-
ment by June 30, 1980 (para 4.02);
(f) contract by April 30, 1980 with Indian Institute
of Management at Ahmedabad to expand the ongoing fish
marketing study to include inland fish (para 4.02);
(g) fund according to its share of costs, establish and
operate new FFDAs, and expand where necessary existing
FFDAs, in project districts (para 4.12); and
(h) cause CPU to provide IDA with quarterly progress reports
on project activities for the project as a whole (para
4.14).



- 35 -
(ii)  Each participating State government will:
(a) establish, operate and suitably staff, or strengthen
as needed, fish culture extension training centers by
December 31, 1981, except in Orissa (para 2.12);
(b) cause FSDCs to maintain separate accounts for project
components and provide IDA with audited accounts
within nine months of the close of each financial year
(para 3.21);
(c) cause FSDC to have its Balance Sheets and Profit-Loss
Accounts audited by qualified auditors acceptable to
IDA and to provide copies of the auditor's reports
within nine months of the close of each financial year
(para 3.21);
(d) cause the SPU in conjunction with CPU in the GOI Fish-
eries Division to develop detailed work plans and a
timetable for project implementation in the State by
May 31, 1980 (para 4.04);
(e) cause FSDC to limit its activities mainly to production,
promotion and marketing of fish seed during the project
period (para 4.10);
(f) ensure that FSDC memoranda and articles of association
are not changed during the project period without con-
sulting IDA (para 4.10);
(g) provide equity contributions to FSDC equal to 30% of
hatchery investment costs, in addition to an initial
share capital of Rs 1 million to be provided by
April 30, 1980 (para 4.10);
(h) appoint to FSDC a suitably qualified executive engineer
by May 31, 1980 and three Senior Executive Managers by
June 30, 1981 (para 4.10);
(i) cause FSDC in conjunction with the State Fisheries Depart-
ment to select the first two hatchery sites by May 31,
1980, and all hatchery sites by September 30, 1980
(para 4.10);
(j) ensure that State fish seed farms and agencies do not
sell fingerlings in the project area at prices lower
than FSDC fingerling prices (para 4.10);
(k) in conjunction with GOI, establish, fund and operate
FFDAs in all project districts without ongoing FFDAs
by March 31, 1981 (para 4.12);



- 36 -
(1)  construct in phase with hatchery construction and ade-
quately maintain suitable all-weather hatchery approach
roads (para 4.13);
(m)  cause SPU to provide to IDA through the GOI Fisheries
Division quarterly progress reports for the project
in the State (para 4.14); and
(n)  take steps as necessary to establish 10 year lease
terms for government fish ponds in the project area
by June 30, 1980 (para 4.16).
(iii) ARDC will ensure that, after project funds for fish pond
credit are fully utilized, priority is given to refinancing
fish pond credit in the project area from the IDA-supported
general lines of credit as necessary (para 3.05).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(i) establishment by GOI in the GOI Fisheries Division of a
Central Project Unit with responsibilities and initial
staff satisfactory to IDA, and headed by an officer at
the Deputy Commissioner level (para 4.02);
(ii)  establishment by GOI of a Central Monitoring and
Coordinating Committee (para 4.03); and
(iii) agreement on financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC
for financing project credit components (para 4.15).
7.03      Conditions of credit disbursement for each State are:
(i) establishment by April 30, 1980 of a State Project Unit
with key staff satisfactory to IDA and headed by an
officer not below the rank of Joint Director (para 4.04);
(ii) establishment by April 30, 1980 of a State Monitoring and
Coordinating Committee (para 4.05);
(iii) establishment by April 30, 1980 of a legally and financially
independent FSDC with a managing director and an initial
equity share capital of Rs 1.0 million (para 4.10); and
(iv) preparation by ARDC of a banking plan satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.15).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$20.0 million on standard IDA terms.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
r NDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Project States and Districts
West                                                  Madhya         Uttar
Bengal                 Bihar            Orissa         Pradesh        Pradesh
Midnapur              Paschimi Champaran 2/ Balasore 1/  Raipur 1/        Lucknow
Bankura               Purbi Champaran 2/    Cuttack       Durg            Unnao
Howrah                Sitamarhi              Puri         Bilaspur        Gonda 1/
Hooghly               Madhubani              Ganjam 1/    Rajnandgaon    Barabanki
Purulia               Saharsa                Bolangir 1/  Raigarh         Faizabad
Burdwan 1/            Purnea                 Sambalpur    Shahdol 1/      Jaunpur 1/
Nadia                 Gopalganj              Phulbani -'                  Asamgarh
Barbhum 1/            Siwan                                               Basti
Murshidabad 1/        Saran                                               Gorakhpur
Malda 1/              Muzaffarpur                                         Ghazipur
West Dinajpur 1/      Vaishali                                            Allahabad 1/
Darbhanga                                           Deoria
Samastipur                                          Ballia
Begusarai                                           Varanasi
Katihar                                             Rae Bareli
Patna                                               Pratapgarh
Monghyr                                             Sultanpur
1/ District with ongoing FFDA sponsored by GOI.
2/ One FFDA serves both Paschimi Champaran and Purbi Champaran.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Guideline Criteria for
Selection of Project Hatchery Sites
1.        Selection of hatchery sites will be based on technical and
socio-economic criteria, considering inter alia the following factors for
each site:
(i) availability of land in a contiguous, suitably shaped plot of
sufficient size for all facilities (approximately 33 ha of land
for 25 ha hatcheries and 14.4 ha of land for 10 ha hatcheries);
(ii) availability of assured water supplies of adequate quality;
(iii)  site surveys and soil testing to determine the suitability of
the site for the engineering works envisaged;
(iv)  soil testing to determine suitability for fish culture;
(v)  freedom from frequent deep flooding, such that the 10-year
return flood is no higher than about 1.85 meters above the
average original ground level;
(vi) reasonable proximity to the area of demand for fingerlings;
(vii) proximity to all-weather road connections;
(viii) availability of electricity and, if possible, telephone
connections; and
(ix) avoidance of significant social displacement, particularly in
heavily populated areas.
2.        The project banking plan to be prepared by ARDC would provide for
procedures and technical specifications to ensure selection of hatchery sites
which meet the above criteria, and other requirements as necessary. The GOI
Central Project Unit would assist in preparation of the hatchery site selection
criteria for the banking plan, development of the technical and economic
specifications required to make the site selection criteria operational, and.
review of hatchery sites as they are selected.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
____________________________
(RS '000>
WEST                       MADHYA  UTTAR  - - - ALL SrATES - - -  US,  000
BENG3AL  BIHAR   ORISSA  PRADESH PRADESH  LOCAt FO*EIGN  TOTAL  EQUIVALENT
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                   23017   14330   10568   12044    9046   68227            778   69005    8024
EOUIPMENT                      1864    1214       83S       838      795    3662    1887    5549         645
LANB                           2040    1236       948       948      762    5934         0    5934       690
FSDC HEADGUARTERS               319      319      319      319       319    1275       320    1595       185
SUBTOTAL BASE COST          27240   17099   12673   14149   10922   79098    2985   82083    9544
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         4603    2866    2114    2409        1809   13663        138   13801      1605
PRICE ESCALATION               9506    5251    3546    3984    2796   23829           1254   25083    2917
TOTAL COST                  41349   25216   18333   20542   15527  116590    4377  120967   14066
APPROACH ROADS
CIVIL WORKS                   12150    5940    3960    3960    3960   28772           1198   29970    3485
LAND                            270       180      120      120      120      810        0      810       94
SUBTOTAL BASE COST          12420    6120    4080    4080    4080   29582    1198   30780    3579
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         2430    1188       792       792      792    5753       241    5994       697
PRICE ESCALATION               4208     1955    1174       1174    1174    9200        485    9685    1126
TOTAL COST                  19058    9263    6046    6046    6046   44535          1924   46459    5402
FFDA 'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF              4554    5148    2377    2970    4752   19801              0   19801    2302
EQUIPHENT                      4475    4296    2326    3222    3580   16279           1620   17899    2081
SUBTOTAL BASE COST           9029    9444    4703    6192    8332   36080          1620   37700    4383
PRICE ESCALATION               2892    2830      1491    2071    2365   11036          613   11649    1355
TOTAL COST                  11921   12274    6194    8263   10697   47116    2233   49349    5738
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                   22426    8309    6607    4746    3518   45606              0   45606    5303
EQUIPMENT                      7661    3870    2823    2797    1948   19099              0   19099    2221
FIRST YEAR INPUTS              5099    2962    2020    2433    1626   14140              0   14140    1644
SUBTOTAL BASE COST          35186   15141   11450    9976    7092   78845              0   78845    9168
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         3364     1246      991      712       528    6841         0    6841       795
PRICE ESCALATION              13292    4909    3928    3170    2271   27569              0   27569    3206
TOTAL COST                  51842   21296   16369   13858    9891  113255              D  113255   13169
TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS                     1800    1800         0        0    1800    5220        180    5400       628
EQUIPHENT                      1745    1745          0    1745    1745    6504         476    6980       812
LAND                              75       75        0        0       75      225        0      225       26
SUBTOTAL BASE COST           3620    3620         0    1745    3620   11949         656   12605    1466
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES          270      270         0        0      270      786       24      810       94
PRICE ESCALATION                617      617         0     274      617    1934        193    2127       247
TOTAL COST                   4507    4507         0    2019    4507   14669         873   15542      1807
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
HATCHERY ENGINEER                  0        0        0        0        0        0      620      620       72
HATCHERY MANAGER                   0        0        0        0        0        0      620     620        72
PROJECT PREPARATION                0        0        0        0        0    1844        54    1898       216
MARKETING STUDY                    0        0        0        0        0    1800         0    1800       209
TOTAL COST                      0        0        0        0         0    3644    1294    4938        569
TOTAL PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS                   59393   30379   21135   20750   18324  147825    2156  149981    17440
EQUIPMENT                     15745   11125    5987    8602    8068   45544    3983   49527    5759
LAND                           2385    1491      1068    1068       957    6969          0    6969       810
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               0        0        0        0        0    3644    1254    4898         570
OTHER2/                        9972    8429    4716    5722    6697   35216            320   35536    4132
SUBTOTAL                    87495   51424   32906   36142   34046  239198    7713  246911   28711
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES        10667    5570    3897    3913    3399   27043            403   27446    3191
FRICE ESCALATION              30515   15562   10139   10673    9223   73568    2545   76113    8851
TOTAL PROJECT              128677   72556   46942   50728   46668  339809   10661  350470   40753
1/ Technical Assistance will be responsibility of GOI.
2/ Includes FSDC headquarters, first year inputs and FFDA incremental staff.



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Costs Expected Price Increases
(Rs '000)
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983      Total
Expected Price Increase Rates
Civil Works                                7%        7%         7%         7%         7%
Equipment                                  6%        6%         6%         6%         6%
Civil Works i/
Base Cost Estimate                     8,249    40,722    49,441    39,965    18,573    156,950
Physical Contingencies                   930      7,032      9,012      7,319     3,153      27,446
Subtotal                             9,179    47,754    58,453    47,284    21,726    184,396
Expected Price Increases               1,140      9,088    15,320    16,090       9,300      50,938
Total Civil Works                   10,319    56,842    73,773    63,374    31,026    235,334
Equipment 2/
Base Cost Estimate                     8,891    18,491    14,093    19,489    24,099         85,063
Expected Price Increases               1,147      3,606      3,746      6,591    10,085      25,175
Total Equipment                     10,038    22,097    17,839    26,080    34,184    110,238
Technical Assistance                     1,386      1,306        942        666        598      4,898
Total Expected Price Increases           2,287    12,694    19,066    22,681    19,385         76,113
Total Project Cost                      21,743    80,245    92,553    90,121    65,808    350,470
Price Increase as Percent
of Base Cost Plus Contingencies                                                               27.7%
1/  Includes Civil works and land.
2/  Includes equipment, FFDA incremental staff,FSDC headquarters equipment, and financed first
year inputs.



-41 -                                          ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 1
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING
-----------------------------------
WEST BENGAL
(RS '000)
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-----------------------------
1           2             3            4            5      TOTALS  FOR. EXCH.
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                         250         3806         6124         7608         5229        23017          259
EQUIPMENT                           146         535           564          461          158         1864          636
LAND                               474          804           618          144            0         2040            0
FSDC HEADQUARTERS                  319             0            0            0            0          319           64
BASE COST                       1189         5145         7306          8213         5387       27240           959
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               50          761         1225         1522         1046         4603           46
PRICE ESCALATION                    162         1139         2243         3277         2684         9506          475
SUBTOTAL                        1401         7046        10774         13011        9117        41349          1480
APPROACH ROADS
CIVIL WORKS                         608        2430          3645         3645         1822        12150          486
LAND                                 90           90           90            0            0          270            0
BASE COST                        698         2520         3735         3645          1822        12420          486
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              122          486          729          729          364         2430           97
PRICE ESCALATION                    101         567          1161         1467          912         4208          210
SUBTOTAL                         920         3573         5625         5841         3099         19058          793
FFDA'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF                   137         273           364         1275         2505         4554            0
EQUIPMENT                          448          1387          492         1253          895         4475          407
BASE COST                        585         1660          856         2528         3400          9029          407
PRICE ESCALATION                     72         317           225          855         1423         2892          174
SUBTOTAL                         657         1977         1081         3383          4823       11921           581
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                           0        2378          4755         7133         8160        22426            0
EQUIPMENT                             0         785          1571         2356         2949         7661            0
FIRST YEAR INPUTS                     0         520          1040         1561         1978         5099            0
BASE COST                          0         3683         7366        11050        13087         35186            0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                0         357           713         1070         1224         3364            0
PRICE ESCALATION                      0         784         2163          4196         6148        13292            0
SUBTOTAL                           0         4824        10242         16316        20459        51842            0
TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS                         900          900            0            0            0         1OO           60
EQUIPMENT                          873          872             0            0            0         1745          119
LAND                                 75            0            0            0            0           75            0
BASE COST                       1848         1772             0            0            0         3620          179
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              135          135            0            0            0          270            8
PRICE ESCALATION                   248          369             0            0            0          617           56
SUBTOTAL                        2231         2276             0            0            0         4507          243
TOTAL WEST BENGAL
CIVIL WORKS                        1758         9514        14524        18386        15211        59393          805
EQUIPMENT                         1467          3579         2627         4070         4002        15745         1162
LAND                               639           894          708          144            0         2385            0
OTHER 1/                           456           793         1404         2836         4483         9972           64
BASE COST                       4320        14780        19263        25436        23696        87495          2031
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             307         1739          2667         3321         2634        10667          151
PRICE ESCALATION                   583          3177         5792         9796        11167        30515          915
TOTAL WEST BENGAL               5209        19696        27722        38552        37497       128677          3097
1/ rncl,des FSDC headquarters, first year inputs and FFDA incremental staff.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 2
IND0 A
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING
BIHAR
(RS '000)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _- - _ _ _ __--- - -   -- - - --_ _ _-- _ _- -- - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-
1            2            3            4            5       TOTALS  FOR. EXCH.
- - -_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                         217         3732         4310          6071            0        14330           164
EQUIPMENT                           146          419          333           316            0         1214           408
LAND                                474          474          288             0            0         1236             0
FSDC HEADQUARTERS                   319            0             0            0            0          319            64
BASE COST                        1156         4625         4931         6387             0        17099          636
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               43          746          862          1214            0         2866            29
PRICE ESCALATION                    157         1026          1516         2551            0         5251           263
SUBTOTAL                         1356         6398         7309        10152             0        25216          928
APPROACH ROADS
CIVIL WORKS                         297         1188         2376          1782          297         5940           238
LAND                                 60           60            60            0            0          180             0
BASE COST                         357         1248         2436          1782          297         6120          238
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               59          238          475           356           59         1188            48
PRICE ESCALATION                     51          281           757          717          149         1955            98
SUBTOTAL                          468         1766         3668         2856           505         9263          384
FFDA'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF                   206          360          721          1493         2368         5148             0
EQUIPMENT                           687         1976           344          516          773         4296           392
BASE COST                         893         2336         1065         2009          3141         9444          392
PRICE ESCALATION                    110          446          280           679         1315         2830           142
SUBTOTAL                         1003         2782         1345         2688          4456        12274          534
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                           0         1818         3636          2035          820         8309             0
EQUIPMENT                             0          601         1201          1312          756         3870             0
FIRST YEAR INPUTS                     0          398          796           933          835         2962             0
BASE COST                           0         2817         5633         4280          2411        15141            0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                0          273          545           305          123         1246             0
PRICE ESCALATION                      0          600         1654          1579         1076         4909             0
SUBTOTAL                            0         3690         7833         6164          3610        21296             0
TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS                         900          900             0            0            0         1800            60
EQUIPMENT                           873          872             0            0            0         1745           119
LAND                                 75            0             0            0            0           75             0
BASE COST                        1848         1772            0             0            0         3620          179
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              135          135             0            0            0          270             8
PRICE ESCALATION                    248          369             0            0            0          617            56
SUBTOTAL                         2231         2276            0             0            0         4507          243
TOTAL BIHAR
CIVIL WORKS                        1414         7638         10322         9888         1117        30379           462
EQUIPMENT                          1706         3868         1878          2144         1529        11125           919
LAND  1/                            609          534          348             0            0         1491             0
OTHER I-                            525          758         1517          2426         3203         8429            64
BASE COST                        4254        12798        14065        14458          5849        51424         1445
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              238         1392         1883          1876          182         5570            85
PRICE ESCALATION                    567         2722         4207          5526         2540        15563           559
TOTAL BIHAR                      5059        16912        20155        21860          8571        72557         2089
1/ Includes FSDC headquarters, first year inputs and FFDA in,cremental staff.



- 43 -                                           ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 3
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING
-----------------------------------
ORISSA
(RS '000)
1            2             3            4            5       TOTALS  FOR. EXCH.
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                          217         3732          4075         2544             0        10568           118
EQUIPMENT                            146          419           273             0            0          638           290
LAND                                 474          474             0             0            0          948             0
FSDC HEADQUARTERS                    319            0             0             0            0          319            64
BASE COST-                       1156          4625         4348          2544             0        12673           472
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                43          746           815          509             0         2114            21
PRICE ESCALATION                     157         1026          1338         1024             0         3546           177
SUBTOTAL                         1356          6398         6501          4077             0        18332           670
APPROACH ROADS
=_______________
CIVIL WORKS                          198         1386          1584          792             0         3960           158
LAND                                  60           60             0             0            0          120             0
BASE COST                          258         1446          1584          792             0         4080           158
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                40          277           317          158             0          792            32
PRICE ESCALATION                      37          325           492          319             0         1174            59
SUBTOTAL                          335          2049         2393          1269             0         6046          249
FFDA'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF                     95          143           214          594          1331         2377             0
EQUIPMENT                            279          814           278          303           652         2326           210
BASE COST                         374           957           492          897          1983         4703           210
PRICE ESCALATION                      46          183           129          303           830         1491            75
SUBTOTAL                          420          1140           621         1200         2813          6194           285
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                            0         1119          2238         2186          1064         6607             0
EQUIPMENT                              0          370           739          941           773         2823             0
FIRST YEAR INPUTS                      0          245           490          645           640         2020             0
BASE COST                            0         1734         3467          3772         2477         11450             0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 0          168           336          328           160          991             0
PRICE ESCALATION                       0          369          1018         1416          1124         3928             0
SUBTOTAL                             0         2271         4821          5516         3761         16369             0
TOTAL ORISSA
CIVIL WORKS                          415         6237          7897         5522          1064        21135           276
EQUIPMENT                            425         1603          1290         1244          1425         5987           500
LAND1                                534          534             0             0            0         1068             0
OTHER-                               414          388           704         1239          1971         4716            64
BASE COST                        1788          8762         9891          8005         4460         32906          840
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                83         1191          1468          995           160         3897            53
PRICE ESCALATION                     240         1904          2978         3063          1954        10139           311
TOTAL ORISSA                     2111         11857        14336         12063         6574         46941         1204
1/ Includes FSDC headqu,arters, first year inpuits and FFDA incremental staff.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 4
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING
MADHYA PRADESH
(RS '000)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----------------------------_
1            2            3            4            5      TOTALS  FOR. EXCH.
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------------------------
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                        245          4299         4600         2900            0        12044          132
EQUIPMENT                           146         419           273            0            0          838          290
LAND                               474           474            0            0            0          948            0
FSDC HEADQUARTERS                  319             0            0            0            0          319           64
BASE COST                       1184         5192         4873         2900             0       14149           486
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               49         860           920          580            0         2409           24
PRICE ESCALATION                    161         1154         1501         1168            0         3984          199
SUBTOTAL                        1394         7206         7294          4648            0       20542           709
APPROACH ROADS
CIVIL WORKS                         198         1386         1584          792            0         3960          158
LAND                                60           60             0            0            0          120            0
BASE COST                        258         1446         1584          792             0        4080           158
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              40          277           317          158            0          792           32
PRICE ESCALATION                    37          325           492          319            0         1174           59
SUBTOTAL                         335         2049         2393         1269             0        6046           249
FFDA'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF                   89          149          208           683        1841          2970            0
EQUIPMENT                          226          806          354           838          998         3222          291
BASE COST                        315          955          562         1521         2839         6192           291
PRICE ESCALATION                     39         182           148          514         1188         2071          104
SUBTOTAL                         354         1137          710         2035         4027         8263           395
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                           0         1748         1472          806          720         4746            0
EQUIPMENT                            0          578          865           664          690         2797            0
FIRST YEAR INPUTS                     0         383           611          651          788         2433            0
BASE COST                          0         2709         2948         2121         2198         9976             0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               0          262           221          121          108          712            0
PRICE ESCALATION                     0          577           845          769          979         3170            0
SUBTOTAL                           0         3548         4014         3011         3285        13858             0
TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS                           0            0            0            0            0            0            0
EQUIPMENT                          873          872             0            0            0         1745          119
LAND                                  0            0            0            0            0            0            0
BASE COST                        873          872            0             0            0         1745          119
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                0            0            0            0            0            0            0
PRICE ESCALATION                   108           167            0            0            0          274           25
SUBTOTAL                         981         1039             0            0            0         2019          144
TOTAL MADHYA PRADESH
CIVIL WORKS                         443        7433          7656         4498          720        20750          290
EQUIPMENT                         1245         2675          1492         1502         1688         8602          700
LAND                               534          534             0            0            0         1068            0
OTHER-I/        .408                            532           819         1334        2629          5722           64
BASE COST                       2630        11174         9967         7334         5037        36142          1054
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               89         1399        1458           859          108         3913           56
PRICE ESCALATION                    345         2405         2986         2770         2167        10673          387
TOTAL MADHYA PRADESH            3064        14978        14411         10963         7312       50728          1497
1/ Includes FSDC headquarters first year inputs and FFDA incremental staff.



-45-                                          ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 5
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING
-----------------------------------
UTTAR PRADESH
(RS '000)
1            2            3            4            5       TOTALS  FOR. EXCH.
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                         196         3651          5199            0            0         9046           105
EQUIPMENT                           146          419           230            0            0           795          263
LAND                                474          288             0            0            0          762             0
FSDC HEADQUARTERS                   319            0             0            0            0          319            64
BASE COST                        1135         4358         5429             0            0        10922           432
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               39          730          1040            0            0         1809            18
PRICE ESCALATION                    154          966          1676            0            0         2796           140
SUBTOTAL                         1328         6055         8145             0            0        15528          590
APPROACH ROADS
CIVIL WORKS                         198         1386          1584          792            0         3960           158
LAND                                 60           60             0            0            0          120             0
BASE COST                         258         1446         1584           792            0         4080          158
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               40          277           317          158            0          792            32
PRICE ESCALATION                     37          325           492          319            0         1174            59
SUBTOTAL                          335         2049         2393          1269            0         6046          249
FFDA'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF                   203          503          870          1335         1841         4752             0
EQUIPMENT                           704         1886           260          347          383         3580           320
BASE COST                         907         2389         1130          1682         2224         8332          320
PRICE ESCALATION                    112          456          297           569          931         2365           118
SUBTOTAL                         1019         2845         1427         2251          3155        10697          438
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                           0         1119          1203          735          461         3518             0
EQUIPMENT                             0          370          591           546          441         1948             0
FIRST YEAR INPUTS                     0          245          411           466          504         1626             0
BASE COST                           0         1734         2205          1747         1406         7092             0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                0          168           180          110           69          528             0
PRICE ESCALATION                      0          369           637          638          626         2271             0
SUBTOTAL                            0         2271         3022         2495          2101         9890             0
TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS                         900          900             0            0            0         1800            60
EQUIPMENT                           873          872             0            0            0         1745           119
LAND                                 75            0             0            0            0           75             0
BASE COST                        1848         1772            0             0            0         3620          179
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              135          135             0            0            0          270             8
PRICE ESCALATION                    248          369             0            0            0          617            56
SUBTOTAL                         2231         2276             0            0            0         4507          243
TOTAL UTTAR PRADESH
CIVIL WORKS                        1294         7056         7986          1527          461        18324           323
EQUIPMENT                          1723         3547          1081          893          824         8068           702
LAND G /                            609          348             0            0            0          957             0
OTHER -522                                       748          1281         1801         2345         6697            64
BASE COST                        4148        11699        10348          4221         3630        34046         1089
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              214         1310         1537           269           69         3399            58
PRICE ESCALATION                    552         2486         3102          1526         1557         9223           373
TOTAL UTTAR PRADESH              4913        15495        14987          6016         5256        46668         1520
1/ Includes FSDC headquarters, first year inputs and FFDA incremsental staff.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 6
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES F'ROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING
-----------------------------------
TOTAL FROJECT
(RS '000)
1            2            3             4            5       TOTALS  FOR. EXCH.
HATCHERIES
CIVIL WORKS                         1125        19220        24308         19123         5229         69005          778
EQUIPMENT                            730         2211         1673           777          158          5549         1887
LAND                               2370          2514          906           144            0          5934             0
FSDC HEADQUARTERS                   1595            0             0            0            0          1595          320
BASE COST                        5820        23945         26887        20044          5387        82083          2985
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              225          3844         4862          3825         1046         13801          138
PRICE ESCALATION                    791          5312         8276          8020         2684         25083         1254
SUBTOTAL                         6836        33101         40024        31888          9117       120967          4377
APPROACH ROADS
CIVIL WORKS                         1499         7776        10773          7803         2119         29970         1198
LAND                                330           330           150            0            0           810            0
BASE COST                        1829         8106         10923          7803         2119        30780          1198
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              300          1555         2155          1561          424          5994          241
PRICE ESCALATION                    263          1824         3395          3141         1061          9685          485
SUBTOTAL                         2392         11485        16472         12505         3604        46459          1924
FFDA'S
INCREMENTAL STAFF                   730          1428         2377          5380         9886        19801             0
EQUIPMENT                          2344          6869         1728          3257         3701        17899          1620
BASE COST                        3074          8297         4105          8637        13587        37700          1620
PRICE ESCALATION                    380          1585         1078          2921         5686         11649          613
SUBTOTAL                         3454          9882         5183        11558         19273        49349          2233
FISH POND IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORKS                            0         8182        13304         12895        11225         45606            0
EQUIPMENT                              0         2704         4967          5819         5609         19099            0
FIRST YEAR INPUTS                      0         1791         3348          4256         4745        14140             0
BASE COST                           0        12677         21619        22970         21579        78845             0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 0         1227         1996          1934         1684          6841            0
PRICE ESCALATION                       0         2699         6318          8599         9954        27569             0
SUBTOTAL                            0        16604         29932        33503         33216       113255             0
TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS                         2700         2700             0            0             0         5400          180
EQUIPMENT                          3492          3488             0            0            0          6980          476
LAND                                 225            0             0            0             0          225            0
BASE COST                        6417         6188             0             0            0        12605           656
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              405           405             0            0            0           810           24
PRICE ESCALATION                     853         1274             0            0            0          2127          193
SUBTOTAL                         7675          7867            0             0            0        15542           873
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                1386         1306          942           666          598          4898         1254
TOTAL PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS                         5324        37878        48385         39821        18573       149981          2156
EQUIPMENT                           6566        15272         8368          9853         9468         49527         3983
LAND                               2925          2844         1056           144            0          6969            0
OTHER I/                           3711          4525         6667         10302        15229         40434         1574
BASE COST                       18526         60519        64476        60120         43270       246911          7713
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               930         7032         9012          7319         3153         27446          403
PRICE ESCALATION                   2287         12694        19066         22681        19385         76113         2545
TOTAL PROJECT                     21743         80245        92553         90121        65808       350470         10661
1/ Includes FSDC headquarters, first year inputs, FFDA incremental staff and technical assistance.



47                                  ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
25 Ha Hatchery Complex
Estimated Base Cost as of January 1979
(Rs '000)
Total    US$'000
Local       Forei-E      Cgot      Equivalent
CIVIL WORKS
Site Preparation 1/                    121           -           121         14.1
Earthworks 2/                          679           -           679         79.0
Clay Soil 3/                           174           -           174         20.2
Bank Protection 4/                     116           -           116         13.5
Pitching Central Channel 5/            192           -           192         22.4
Site Finishing 6/                      247           -           247         28.7
Surfacing of Hatchery Roads 7/         208           -           208         24.2
Watergates 8/                          374          12           386         44.9
Hatchery Building 9/                    90           4            94         10.9
Water Supply 10/                       390           3           393         45.7
Administrative Building 11/             48           2            50          5.8
Staff Quarters 12/                     171           7           178         20.7
Storage Building 13/                   119           5           124         14.4
Fencing and Gates 14/                   64           3            67           7.8
Electricity Supply 15/                  65           -            65           7.6
Engineering (10%)                      309           -           309         35.9
Subtotal Civil Works               3,367          36         3,403        395.7
EQUIPMENT
Light duty truck 16/                    15           1            16           1.9
Pick-up truck 17/                       55           5            60           7.0
Jeep 18/                                59           6            65           7.6
Trailer for Jeep                         4           0             4          0.5
Portable water pumps (2) 19/             -          74            74           8.6
Hatching Nets 20/                        1           -             1           0.1
Office Furniture                         9           -             9           1.0
Miscellaneous 21/                        2           -             2           0.2
Subtotal Equipment                   145          86           231         26.9
BASE COST ESTIMATE
Civil Works                          3,367          36         3,403        395.7
Equipment                              145          86           231          26.9
Land (27 ha)                           330           -           330          38.4
Total Base Cost                    3842          122         3,964        460.9
Physical Contingencies 22/             674           7           681         79.2
Total with Contingencies          4,516          29-         4,645        540.1
1/  Stripping of vegetation and leveling, 301,430 m2 at Rs 0.4/m2.
2/ Excavation for cut-off walls, ponds and bund formation, 126,796 m3 at Rs 5.4/m3.
3/ Delivered at site, used bund construction; 11,173 m3 at Rs 15.6 m3.
4/  13,333 m at Rs 8.7/m.
5/  4,803 m2 at Rs 40/m2.
6/ Trimming pond bottoms, establishment of grass area above water level,
trimming channel beds; 338,254 m2.
7/  Stone metal surface, 2.5 m wide, 5,956 m2 at Rs 35/m2.
8/ Subsidiary gates and division boxes.
9/  Building includes utilities and tanks; 116 m2 at Rs 810/m2.
10/  Three large tubewells, 25 1/sec. capacity with storage tank and pipework;
for Madhya Pradesh, additional cost would be Rs 340,000 for lined channel
of 3 km length with 3 cusec capacity.
11/  Includes utilities; 65 m2 at Rs 775/m2.
12/  Includes utilities; 230 m2 at Rs 775/m2.
f3/  Includes utilities; 250 m2 at Rs 995/m2.
14/  2,436 m of fencing at Rs 26/m and I pair of gates at Rs 3,100/pair.
15/  Electricity connection fee and distribution system.
16/  One 3-wheel truck.
17/  One 3-ton diesel truck.
18/  One 4-wheel drive diesel engine jeep.
19/  Two 7.5 hp low-lift turbine pumps, 1 cusec capacity delivered for Rs 37,000 each.
20/  Seventy hatching nets.
21/  Includes 10 shovels for Rs 250, 4 box nets for Rs 200, 2 drag nets for Rs 900
and I gill net for Rs 900.
22/. Estimated at 20% of civil works,



48 -                                         ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
10 Ha Hatchery Complex
Estimated Base Cost as of January 1979
(Rs '000)
Total       US$ '000
Local       Foreign       Cost        Equivalent
CIVIL WORKS
Site Preparation 1/                      51           -             51            5.9
Earthworks 2/                           348           -            348           40.5
Clay Soil 3/                             83           -             83            9.6
Bank Protection 4/                       51           -             51            5.9
Pitching Central Channel 5/             116           -            116           13.5
Site Finishing 6/                       110           -            110           12.8
Surfacing of Hatchery Roads 7/          119           -            119           13.8
Watergates 8/                           227           8            235           27.3
Hatchery Building 9/                     64           3             67            7.8
Water Supply 10/                        207           1            208           24.2
Administrative Building 11/              30           1             31            3.6
Staff Quarters 12/                      119           5            124           14.4
Storage Buildings 13/                    71           3             74            8.6
Fencing and Gates 14/                    41           2             43            5.0
Electricity Supply 15/                   50           -             50            5.8
Engineering (10%)                       171           -            171           19.9
Subtotal Civil Works               1,858           23         1,881          218.7
EQUIPMENT
Light duty truck 16/                     15           1             16            1.9
Pick-up truck 17/                        41           4             45            5.2
Jeep 18/                                 59           6             65            7.6
Trailer for Jeep                          4           0              4            0.5
Portable water pumps (3) 19/              -          48             48            5.6
Hatching Nets 20/                         1           -              1            0.1
Office Furniture                          7           -              7            0.8
Miscellaneous 21/                         2           -              2            0.2
Subtotal Equipment                   129           59           188            21.9
BASE COST ESTIMATE
Civil Works                          1,858           23         1,881           218.7
Equipment                               129          59            188           21.9
Land (14.4 ha)                          144           -            144           16.7
Total Base Cost                    2,131           82          2_,21         257.3
Physical Contingencies 221              371           5           376            43.7
Total with Contingencies           2,502           87         2,589          301.0
1/  Stripping of vegetation and leveling, 127,999 m2 at Rs 0.4/m3
2/  Excavation for cut-off walls, ponds and bund formation, 64,952 m3 at Rs 5.4/m3.
3/  Delivered at site, used in bund construction, 5,305 m3 at Rs 15.6/m3.
4/  5,281 m at Rs 8.7/m.
5/  2,902 m2 at Rs 40/m2.
6/ Trimming pond bottoms, establishment of grass area above water level,
trimming channel beds; 148,455 m2.
7/  Stone metal surface, 2.5 m wide, 3,410 m2.
8/ Subsidiary gates and division boxes.
9/  Building includes utilities and tanks, 82 m2 at Rs 810/m2.
10/  Three small tubewells, 12 1/sec. capacity, with storage tank and pipework;
for Madhya Pradesh, additional cost would be Rs 331,000 for lined channel
of 3 km length with 1.5 cusec capacity.
11/  Includes utilities; 40 m2 at Rs 775/m2.
12/  Includes utilities; 160 m2 at Rs 775/m2.
13/  Includes utilities; 150 m2 at Rs 495/mZ.
14/  1,534 m at Rs 26/m of fencing, and 1 pair of gates at Rs 3,100/pair.
15/  Electricity connection fee and distribution system.
16/  One 3-wheel truck.
17/  One 1.5 ton diesel truck.
18/  One 4-wheel drive diesel engine jeep.
19/  Three 5 hp low lift turbine pumps, 1/2 cusec capacity delivered for Rs 16,000 each.
20/  Forty hatching nets.
21/  Includes 6 shovels for Rs 150, 6 box nets for Rs 300, 1 drag net for Rs 450,
and 1 gill net for Rs 900.
22/  Estimated at 20% of civil works.



_49 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
5 Ha Hatchery Complex
Estimated Base Cost as of January 1979
(Rs '000)
Total    US$  0oo0
Local       Foreign       Cost      Equivalent
CIVIL WORKS
Site Preparation 1/                     27           -            27          3.1
Earthworks 2/                          205           -           205          23.8
Clay Soil 3/                            50           -            50           5.8
Bank Protection 4/                      29           -             29          3.4
Pitching Central Channel 5/             74           -             74          8.6
Site Finishing 6/                       59           -            59          6.9
Surfacing of Hatchery Roads 7/          80           -            80          9.3
Watergates 8/                          151           5           156         18.1
Hatchery Building 9/                    47           2             49          5.7
Water Supply 10/                       145           1            146         17.0
Administrative Building 11/             30           1             31          3.6
Staff Quarters 12/                      56           2            58          6.7
Storage Building 13/                    33           1            34          4.0
Fencing and Gates 14/                   28           1             29          3.4
Electricity Supply 15/                  45           -            45           5.2
Engineering (10%)                      107           -           107         12.4
Subtotal Civil Works               1,166          13         1,179        137.1
EQUIPMENT
Light Duty Truck 16/                    15           1             16          1.9
Jeep 17/                                59           6            65           7.6
Trailer for Jeep                         4           -              4          0.5
Portable Water Pumps (2) 18/             -          32             32          3.7
Hatching Nets 19/                        1           -              I          0.1
Office Furniture                         5           -              5         0.6
Miscellaneous 20/                        1           -              1          0.1
Subtotal Equipment                    85          39           124         14.4
BASE COST ESTIMATE
Civil Works                          1,166          13         1,179        137.1
Equipment                               85          39           124         14.4
Land (7.8 ha)                           78           -             78          9.1
Total Base Cost                    1,329          52         1,381        160.6
Physical Contingencies 21/             233           3           236         27.4
Total with Contingencies           1,562          55         1,617        188.0
1/ Stripping of vegetation and leveling, 68,014 m2 at Rs 0.4/m2.
2/ Excavation for cut-off walls, ponds and bund formation; 38,227 m3 at Rs 5.4/r3.
3/ Delivered at site, used in bund construction, 2,926 m3 at Rs 15.6/m3.
4/ 3,368 m at Rs 8.7/m.
5/ 1,850 m2 at Rs 40/m2.
6/ Trimming pond bottoms, establishment of grass area above water level, trimming
channel beds; 78,898 m2.
7/ Stone metal surface, 2.5 m wide, 2,298 mZ at Rs 35/m2.
8/ Subsidiary gates and division boxes.
9/ Building includes utilities and tanks; 60 m2 at 810/m2.
10/ Two small tubewells, 12 1/sec capacity, with storage tank and pipe work.
11/ Includes utilities; 40 m2 at Rs 775/m .
12/ Includes utilities; 75 m2 at Rs 775/m2.
13/ Includes utilities; 70 m2 at Rs 495/m2.
14/ 1,010 m of fencing at Rs 26/m, and 1 pair of gates at Rs 3,100/pair.
15/ Electricity connection fee and distribution system.
16/ One 3-wheel truck.
17/ One 4-wheel drive diesel engine jeep.
18/ Two 5 hp low lift turbine pumps, 1/2 cusec capacity delivered for Rs 16,000 each.
19/ Twenty hatching nets.
20/ Includes 4 shovels for Rs 100, 4 box nets for Rs 200, 2 drag nets for Rs 900.
21/ Estimated at 20% of civil works.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Hatchery Approach Roads (3 km)
Estimated Base Cost as of January 1979
(Rs 'OQO)
US$ '000
Local   Foreign   Total   Equivalent
Civil Works
Roadbed Formation 1/           182         -        182       21.2
Pavement Construction 2/       441         -        441       51.2
Bituminous Carpet 3/             26       39         65        7.6
Drainage Works 4/              212         -        212       24.6
Engineering 5/                   90        -         90       10.5
Subtotal                     951        39       990       115.1
Land                               30        _         30        3.5
Total Base Cost              981        39     1,020       118.6
Physical Contingencies(20%)   190          8        198       23.0
Total with Contingencies  1,171         47     1,218       141.6
1/ Includes stripping and disposal of topsoil, earthwork for formation
of six meter wide roadbed, establishment of grass slopes and trimming.
borrow zones into drainage ditches, costed at Rs 61 per running meter
of road length.
2/ Includes delivery and placement of brick flat soling, jhama metal and
stone metal costing together Rs 147 per running meter.
3/ Includes delivery, placement, binding and rolling of bituminous carpet
and tack coat at Rs 22 per running meter.
4/ Drainage costs are assumed to be 33% of other construction costs.
5/ Engineering estimated at 10% of total cost.
6/ 3 ha at Rs 10,000/ha.
71 For West Bengal, costs would include an additional Rs 450,000 per 3 km road
for timber piling where roads border on ponds.



- 51-
XNNEX 2
Table 8
INDIA
INLAND :ISHERIES PROJECT
FISH FARMER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS AND VEHICLE COSTS
(RS '000)
1        2         3         4         5  TOTALS FQqEXC
WEST BENGAL (11 FFDAS)
PONDS IMPROVED('000 HA)             0.0      3.4      10.2      20,4      34.0      60.0       0.0
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS I   137,0    273.0    364.0   1275,0  2505.0  4554.0                   0.0
VEHICLE COSTS2!                  448.0   1387.0    4921.0   1253,0    895.0  4475.0    C,07,0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS          585.0   1660.0    856.0  2528.0  3400.0   9029.0    407,0
BIHAR (16 FFDAS)
PONDS IMPROVED('000 HA)             0.0       2.6      7,8      15,6      26.0      52.0       0.0.
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTSV   206.0   -360.0    721.0   1493,0  2368.q - 5148.0                   0,0
VEHICLE COSTS?!                  687.0O  1976.0    344.0    516.,~   773,0  4296,0    392,0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS          893.0  2336,)  1065.0   2009.0   3141.0   9444.0    392.0
ORISSA (7 FFDAS)
PONDS IMPROVED('000 HA)             0.0       1.6      4.8       9.6      16.0      32.0       0.0
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTSI/    95,0    143.0    214.0    594,0   1331,0  2377.0                  0.0
VEHICLE COSTS.?'                 279,0    814.0    278.0    303.0    652.0  2326.0    210.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS          374,0    957.0    492.0    897.0   1983.0  4703.0    210.0
MADHYA PRADESH (6 FFDAS)
PONDS IMPROVED('000 HA)             0,0       2.5      7.5      15.0      25,0      50.0       0.0
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS1"    89.0    149.0    208.0    683,0   1841.0  2970.0                  0.0
VEHICLE COSTS2?!                 226.0    806.0    354.0    838,0    998.0  3222,0    291.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS          315.0    955.0    562.0   1521.0  2839.0  6~-92.0    291.0
UTTAR PRADESH (17 FFDAS)
PONDS IMPROVED('000 HA)             0.0       1.6      4.8       9.6      16.0      32,0       0,0
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTSV   203,0    503.0    870.0   1335,0   1841.0   4752.0                  0,0
VEHICLE COSTS2?!                 704.0   1886.0    260.0    347.0    383.0  3,t30-0    320.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS          907,0  2389.0   1130,0   1682.0  2224.0  8332.0    320,0
TOTAL PROJECT (57 FFDAS)
PONDS IMPROVED('000 HA)             0,0     11,7      35.1      70.2    117.0    234.0         0.0
INCREMENTAL ST~FF COSTS1'   730,0   1428.0  2377.0   5380,0  9g~86.0 19801.0                   0.0
VEHICLE COSTS.?                 2344.0  6869.0   1728.0   3257,0  3701,0 17899.0   1620.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS    3074,0  8297.0  4105.0   8637,0 13587.0 37700.0   1620,0
I/ Existing fisheries department staff in project districts would be absorbed by FFDA.
Incremental staff costs include incremental staff requirements estimated at 40% of
total staff in year 5, plus a deputation allowance of 2071 of staff costs before
addition of 40% fringe benefits
2/ Each FFDA would have two 4-wheel drive (Rs. 65,000 per jeep) diesel jeeps for general
use. Each training team would also be provided with audio-visual equipment estimatel]
at Rs 20,000 per set, Motorcycles estimated at Es. 8,000 each would be provided
for extension staff and junior engineers.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA                            Table 9
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Farmer Development Agency
General Staffing Plan 1/
Average Annual
Position                    Number of Posts                  Salary 2/ (Rs)
1. General Administration
Chief Executive Officer.                      1                            18,000
Head Clerk-cum-Accountant                     1                             7,200
Typist-cum-Correspondence Clerk               2                             4,200
Stenographer                                  1                             4,200
Driver                                        1                             3,600
Attendant                                     2                             2,400
Watchman                                      1                             2,400
2.  Extension Wing
Senior Fisheries Extension Officer  One per ten Extension Workers           8,400
Fisheries Extension Worker           One per 100 ha of
project pond area                     4,200
3. Engineering Wing
Assistant Engineer 3/                         1                            14,400
Junior Engineer 3/                            1                             7,200
to be improved per annum
Driver                                        1                             3,600
Attendant                                     1                             2,400
4. Demonstration and Training Wing
Fisheries Extension Officer                   1 4/                          8,400
Fish Pond Production Specialist               1 4/                          5,400
Fish Pond Improvement
Specialist                                  1 4/                         5,400
1/ For typical FFDA; may differ between FFDAs.
2/ Excluding fringe benefits and deputation allowances of about 40% and 20% respectively.
31 Engineers would be taken on deputation from State Government Departments
for the project period during which fish pond improvement will be carried out.
4/ Number of posts would depend on number of farmers to be trained per annum.
A team consisting of one extension officer and two subject matter specialists
would train annually some 20 batches of about 25 fish farmers each.



-53 -
AUfX 2
Table 10
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Pond Improvements and Input Costs -
(Rs'000)
Uttar     West            Madhya           1/  US$'000
Bihar  Pradesh   Bengal  Orissa  Pradesh   Total-  Equivalent
Model A
Number of ha ('000)                  10        9         0        3      16         38
Earthwork 2/                      4,800   4,320          0   1,440   7,680    18,240        2,121
Inlets and Outlets  @/           2,600   2,340           0      780   4,160      9,880      1,149
Fish Pond Equipment 4/            2,000   1,800          0      600   3,200      7,600        884
First Year Inputs 5/             5,250   4,725           0   1,575   8,400    19,950        2,320
Subtotal Model A              14,650  13,185           0   4,395  23,440    55,670       6,474
Model B
Number of ha ('000)                   8     4.5          3        6       6       27.5
Earthwork 6/                    13,296   7,479       4,986   9,972   9,972    45,709        5,315
Inlets and Outlets 7/            2,080   1,170         780   1,560   1,560       7,150        831
Fish Pond Equipment 8/           6,800   3,825       2,550   5,100   5,100    23,375        2,718
First Year Inputs 9/             6,336   3,564       2,376   4,752   4,752    21,780        2,533
Subtotal Model B              28,512  16,038    10,692  21,384  21,384    98,010    11,397
Model C
Number of ha ('000)                   8     2.5         31        7       3       51.5
Earthwork 10/                   37,296  11,655   144,522  32,634  13,986   240,096    27,918
Inlets and Outlets 11/           2,720      850    10,540   2,380   1,020    17,510        2,036
Fish Pond Equipment 12/          9,600   3,000    37,200   8,400   3,600    61,800          7,186
First Year Inputs 137            8,160   2,550    31,620   7,140   3,060    52,530          6,108
Subtotal Model C              57,776  18,055   223,882  50,554  21,666   371,933    43,248
Total
Number of ha ('000)                  26      16         34       16      25        117
Earthwork                       55,392  23,454   149,508  44,046  31,638   304,038    35,353
Inlets and Outlets                7,400   4,360    11,320   4,720   6,740    34,540        4,016
Fish Pond Equipment             18,400   8,625    39,750  14,1CO  il,900    92,775    10,788
First Year Inputs               19,746  10,839    33,996  13,467  16,212    94,260    10,960
Subtotal Base Cost           100,938  47,278   234,574  76,333  66,490   525,613    61,117
Physical Contingencies (15%)    8,309   3,518    22,426   6,607   4,746    45,606           5;303
Total with Contingencies       109,247  50,796   257,000  82,940  71,236   571,219    66,420
1/ Cost estimates are for entire project area; financed first year inputs are fingerlings,
mahua oil cake and superphosphate. All costs are local.
2/ 400 m3/ha at Rs 1.2/m3; includes deepening of pond and strengthening of dikes.
3/ Bamboo screen at Rs 130/set.
4/ Hand tools and nets at Rs 200/set.
5/ Per hectare cash inputs financed in the first year are 2,500 fingerlings at Rs 90/1,000
and 300 kg of mahua oil cake at Rs 1/kg for Model A.
6/ 1,000 m3/ha at Rs 1.2/m3; includes deepening of pond and strengthening of dikes.
7/ Bamboo screen at Rs 130/set.
8/ Hand tools and nets at Rs 850/set.
9/ Per hectare cash inputs financed in the first year are 3,800 fingerlings at Rs 90/1,000,
300 kg of mahua oil cake at Rs 1/kg and 250 kg of superphosphate at Rs 0.6/kg for Model B.
10/ 2,500 m3/ha at Rs 1.2/m3; includes deepening of pond and strengthening of dikes.
11/ Bamboo screen at Rs 170/set.
12/ Hand tools and nets at Rs 1,200/set.
13/ Per hectare cash inputs financed in the first year are 5,000 fingerlings at Rs 90/1,000,
400 kg of mahua oil cake at Rs 1/kg and 283 kg of superphosphate at Rs 0.6/kg for
Model C.



- 54                                ANNEX 2
Table 11
INDIA                                                    r
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Training Center
Base Cost Estimate
(Rs '000)
US$ '000
Local       Foreign        Total       Equivalent
Civil Works
Main Building 1/         480           20             500          58.1
Trainee Hostel 2/        192            8            200           23.3
Staff Quarters 3!        662           28            690           80.2
Guest House 4/            48            2              50           5.8
Garage-Godown 5/          58            2              60           7.0
Model Farm               300            -             300          34.9
Subtotal             1,740            60          1,800         209.3
Equipment
Jeeps (3) 6/             177           18            195           22.7
Audiovisual Van (1)       91            9            100           11.6
Bus (1)                  182           18            200           23.3
Audiovisual 7/           471           47            518           60.2
Laboratory               273           27            300           34.9
Furnishings 8/           232            -            232           27.0
Books-Journals           200            -            200           23.3
Subtotal            1,626           119          1,745         202.9
Base Cost Estimate
Civil Works            1,740           60          1,800         209.3
Equipment              1,626          119          1,745         202.9
Land                      75            -             75            8.7
Total Base Cost    3441             179          3,620         420.9
Physical Cont. 15%       261            9            270          31.4
Total with Cont.   3,702            188          3,890         452.3
1/  Main building houses classrooms, laboratory, library, office, tool room
and workshop, 625 mn2 at Rs 800/m2.
2/  250 m2 at Rs 800/m2.
3/ Officer quarters, demonstrator and caretaker quarters and support staff.-
watchman and driver quarters, 920 m2 at Rs 750/m2.
4/  62 m2 at Rs 800/m2.
5/   100 m2 at Rs 600/m2.
6/ Diesel engine, 4-wheel drive jeeps.
7/ Includes projector and ancillary equipment, extension kits, salinometer,
photographic equipment, artists tools and duplicator.
8/ Furniture for classrooms, laboratory, library, office, hostel and guest
house, and refrigerator.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
25 Ha Carp Hatchery Model
Financial Rate of Return 1/
(Rs)
 -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -  -  - Year-  -  -  -  -  -
1           2             3          4          5         6-7       8         9-14        15
I. Revenue
Sale of 5 mm fingerlings  2/        -            -        1,147,500 1,721,250 2,295,000 2,295,000 2,295,000 2,295,000 2,295,000
II. Costs
Operating Costs
Brood Stock 3/                                             18,750      7,500     3,250       -         -         -           -
Cow Dung 4/                                                 7,500    10,000    12,500    15,000   15,000    15,000         15,000
Superphosphate 5/                                           1,500      2,250     3,000      3,000    3,000      3,000       3,000
Mahua Oil Cake 6/                                           2,500      3,750     5,000      5,000    5,000       5,000      5,000
Mustard Oil Cake 7/                                         4,000      5,000     7,000      8,000    8,000      8,000       8,000
Rice Bran 8/                                                7,500      8,250     9,750    11,250   11,250    11,250        11,250
Wheat 9/                                                    1,500      2,100     2,400      3,000    3,000       3,000      3,000
Wheat Flour 10/                                             1,880      2,630     3,000      3,800    3,800       3,800      3,800
Shipping Bags 11/                                           4,000      6,000     7,000      8,000    8,000      8,000       8,000
Light Duty Truck 12/                                        2,040      2,270     2,920      2,920    2,920      2,920       2,920
Jeep 13/                                                    8,300      9,060    12,700    12,700   12,700    12,700        12,700
Pick-up Truck 14/                                           5,200      6,660     8,040      8,040    8,040      8,040       8,040
Portable Pump (7.5 hp) 15/                                  9,900    12,380    17,070    17,070   17,070    17,070         17,070
Tubewell Pump 16/                                          13,500    14,300    31,350    31,350   31,350    31,350         31,350
Earthwork/Repair 17/                                       26,100    26,100    26,100    26,100   26,100    26,100         26,100
Nets and Hand Tools                                           900        900        900       900       900        900        900
Management, Staff & Labor 19/                              72,240   144,480   144,480   144,480  144,480   144,480    144,480
Travel                                                      9,000    13,500    18,000  '18,000   18,000    18,000          18,000
Miscellaneous                                               4,000      4,000     4,750      4,750    4,750      4,750       4,750
Interest on Working Capital La/                            17,200    23,109    26,020    26,170   26,170    26,170         26,170
Subtotal                                               217,510   304,239   345,230  .349,530  349,530   349,530    349,530
Investment Costs 21/             594,600      3,171,200    198,200          -          -          -  121,800          - (1,770,400)
Total Costs                  594,600      3,171,200    415,710   304,239   345,230   349,530  471,330   349,530 (1,420,870)
III.  Net Benefits                      (594,600)   (3,171,200)   731,790 1,417,011 1,949,770 1,945,470 1,823,670 1,945,470 3,715,870
IV.  Financial Rate of Return             37% (without physical contingencies)   32% (with physical contingencies)
1/  Based on January 1979 prices.
2/  Production at full development (Year 5) is expected to be 27 million fingerlings sold at Rs 85/1000.  Production in
Years 3 and 4 is assumed to be 50% and 75%, respectively, of full development production.
3/  2.5 tons at Rs 7,500/ton.  Brood stock would be produced totally by the hatchery after the third year of operation (Year 5).
4/  Rs 60/ton; 250 tons annually at full development.
5/  Rs 600/ton; 5 tons annually at full development.
6/  Rs 1,000/ton; 5 tons annually at full development.
7/  Rs 1,600/ton; 5 tons annually at full development.
8/  Rs 750/ton; 15 tons annually at full development.
9/  Rs 1,200/ton; 2.5 tons annually at full development.
10/  Rs 1,500/ton; 2.5 tons annually at full development.
11/  Rs 8/dozen; 12,000 annually at full development.
12/  Rs 0.1135/km for operating and maintenance; 25,700 km annually at full development.
13/  Rs 0.453/km for operating and maintenance; 28,000 km annually at full development.
14/  Rs 0.333/km for operating and maintenance; 24,000 km annually at full development.
15/  Re 4.95/hour for operating and maintenance; 3,500 hours annually at full development.
16/  Rs 0.0447/m3 of water; 700,000 m3 of water annually at full development.
17/  1.5% of total earthworks cost.
18/  25% of total cost of nets and hand tools.
19/  Hatchery staffing plan based on the following:
No. of   Ave. Annual   Total Salary Including
Position               Posts    Salary (Rs)   40% Benefits (Rs)
Hatchery Manager              1       16,800                23,520
Asst. Ifatchery Manager       1       10,200                14,280
Field Supervisor              1        9,000                12,600
Technician                   10        4,200                58,800
Support Staff                 5        3,360                23,520
Salesman                      1        8,400                11,760
Total                     19        5,430               144,480
20/  Interest at 14% annually; average working capital estimated at Rs 122,854 in Year 3; Rs 165,063 in Year 4; Rs 185,857 in
Year 5; and Rs 186,929 thereafter.                                                                                          -
21/  Investment costs detailed in Annex 2, Table 4.  Portable pumps and vehicles would be replaced in Year 8, when residual
value of the initial equipment is estimated at 40% of original costs.  Salvage value in Year 15 is estimated at Rs 1,701,500
for land and civil works and Rs 18,900 for equipment.



-56 -                                                      ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
10 Ha Carp Hatchery Model
Financial Rate of Return 1/
(Rs)
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Year- - - - - - -
1              2            3          4          5         6-7        8         9-14         15
I. Revenue
Sale of 5 mm fingerlings 2/          -              -         425,000   637,500   850,000   850,000  850,000   850,000    850,000
II. Costs
Operating Costs
Brood Stock 3/                                                7,500      3,000      1,500          -         -          -           -
Cow Dung 4/                                                   3,000      4,000      5,000      6,000    6,000       6,000       6,000
Superphosphate 5/                                               600        900      1,200      1,200    1,200       1,200       1,200
Mahua Oil Cake 6/                                             1,000      1,500      2,000      2,000    2,000       2,000       2,000
Mustard Oil Cake 7/                                           1,600      2,000      2,800      3,200    3,200       3,200       3,200
Rice Bran 8/                                                  3,000      3,500      4,000      4,500    4,500       4,500       4,500
Wheat 9/                                                        600        800      1,000      1,200    1,200       1,200       1,200
Wheat Flour 10/                                                 750      1,000      1,200      1,500    1,500       1,500       1,500
Shipping Bags 11/                                             1,600      2,400      3,000      3,200    3,200       3,200       3,200
Light Duty Truck 12/                                          2,040      2,270      2,920      2,920    2,920       2,920       2,920
Jeep 13/                                                      8,300      9,060    12,700    12,700   12,700    12,700          12,700
Pick-up Truck 14/                                             8,300      9,060    12,700    12,700   12,700    12,700          12,700
Portable Water Pumps 15/                                      7,950    10,560    14,640    14,640   14,640    14,640           14,640
Tubewell Pump 16/                                             5,360      6,260    13,490    13,490   13,490    13,490          13,490
Earthworks/Repair 17/                                        13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000   13,000    13,000           13,000
Nets & Hand Tools 18/                                           650        650        650        650       650        650         650
Management, Staff & Labor 19/                                57,120   114,240   114,240   114,240  114,240   114,240    114,240
Travel-                                                       6,000      9,000    12,000    12,000   12,000    12,000          12,000
Miscellaneous                                                 2,700      2,700      3,300      3,300    3,300       3,300       3,300
Interest on Working Capital 20/                               9,866    13,688    15,651    15,651   15,651    15,651           15,651
Subtotal                                                  140,906   209,588   234,991   238,091  238,091   238,091    238,091
Investment Costs 21/               221,300      1,991,700           -          -          -          -   97,800           -   (980,400)
Total Costs                   221,300      1,991,700    140,906   209,588   234,991   238,091  335,891   238,091   (742,309)
III.  Net Benefits                        (221,300)    (1,991,700)   284,094   427,912   615,009   611,909  514,109   611,909  1,592,309
IV.  Financial Rate of Return               22% (without physical contingencies)   18% (with physical contingencies)
1/  Based on January 1979 prices.
2/  Production at full development (Year 5) is expected to be 10 million fingerlings sold at Rs 85/1000.  Production in
Years 3 and 4 is assumed to be 50% and 75%, respectively, of full development production.
3/  One ton at Rs 7,500/ton.  Brood stock would be produced totally by the hatchery after the third year of operation (year 5).
4/ Rs 60/ton; 100 tons annually at full development.
5/  Rs 600/ton; 2 tons annually at full development.
6/  Rs l,OOO/ton; 2 tons annually at full development.
7/  Rs 1,600/ton; 2 tons annually at full development.
8/  Rs 750/ton; 6 tons annually at full development.
9/  Rs 1,200/ton; l ton annually at full development.
10/  Rs 1,500/ton; 1 ton annually at full development.
11/ Rs 8/dozen; 4,800 annually at full development.
12/ Rs 0.1135/km for operation and maintenance; 25,700 km annually at full development.
13/ Rs 0.453/km for operation and maintenance; 28,000 km annually at full development.
14/ Rs 0.453/km for operation and maintenance; 28,000 km annually at full development.
15/ Rs 3.3/hour for operation and maintenance; 4,400 hours annually at full development.
16/  Rs 0.0447/i3 of water for operation and maintenance; 300,000 m  of water at full development.
17/ 1.5% of total earthworks cost.
18/ 25% of total cost of nets and hand tools.
19/ Hatchery staffing plan based on the following:
No. of   Ave. Annual   Total Salary including
Position                Posts    Salary (Rs)   40% Benefits (Rs)
Hatchery Manager              1        14,400                20,160
Asst. Hatchery Manager        1         9,600                13,440
Field Supervisor              1         8,400                11,760
Technician                    6         4,200                35,280
Support Staff                 5         3,360                23,520
Salesman                      1         7,200                10,080
Total                    15         5,440               114,240
20/  Interest at 14% annually; average working capital estimated at Rs 70,473 in Year 3; Rs 97,770 in Year 4; Rs 111,791
thereafter.
21/  Investment costs detailed in Annex 2, Table 5.  Portable pumps and vehicles would be replaced in Year 8, when residual
value of the initial equipment is estimated at 40% of original costs.  Salvage value in Year 15 is estimated at Rs 940,500
for land and civil works and Rs 39,900 for equipment.



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Seed Developeent Corporation
Financial Analysis for Uttar Pradesh 1/
(Rs '000)
- -   -T- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Years- - - - - - - _
1         2           3         4         5       6-7        8         9      10-13      14        15        16      17-20
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 2/            (1)            -          -         1,573    3,209    4,420    4,845    4,845    4,845    4,845    4,845    4,845    4,845    4,845
Equity 3/                              1,600      1,600         900       -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Loans g                                  -        3,500       4,150       -       -7         -         -         -                  -         -         -         -
Total Cash Inflow                    1,600      5,100       6,623    3,209    4,420    4,848    4,845    4,845    4,845    4,845          4 4,845    4,845    4,845
IT. Cash Ostflow
Hatcheries Inveotmento 5/                816      4,358       5,429                                    220       196                          220       196
Headquarters Investments
Office Equipment 6/                     55        -           -                                       47 2/   -                              47 9/
Cars end Jeep 7/ V                     170        -           -                                      145 2"   -                             145 9/
Motorcycles 8f                          64        -           -                                       54 i/   -                              54 9/
Miscellaneous                           30        -           -                                       26 9/   -                              26 9/
Subtotal Investments (2)            ,35       11,1351   45,429                                   1 -9     '96                               -       196
Hatcheries Operating Costs 2/             -         -           358       796       999    1,064      1,064    i,o64    1,064    1,0641   1,0641     1,064    1,064
Headquarters Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages
General Management 10/                73         73          73        73
Finesce & Administration 11/          38         77          77       77
Production 12/            -          _           35          35        35
Marketing 137                        -          -            32        65
Engineering 14/                       43         43          43       -
gringe Benefits (40%)                 62         91         104       100
Office Rent                             4o         40          40        40
Cars & Jeep Operation and
Maintenance 15/                       14         27          27        27
Motorcycles Operation and
Maintenance 16/                        4          7           7         7
Travel Allowance 17/                     5         10          10        10
Office Supplies                         20         40          40        40       -
Utilities                               25         50          50        50
Miscellaneous                            10        20          20        20
Working Capital Interest jjl            23         36          41        4o
Subtotal Operating Costs (3)         357        549         955    1,378    1,651    1,W        1         Tfl646    1,646      31,64   TT6    Y69    31,646 
Estimated Tncome Taxes 19/             -          -           -         -        441    1,048    1,049    1,137    1,254    1,399    1,399    1,399    1,399
Debt Service 20/                       -          -           -      1,333    1,333    1,333    1,333    1,333    1,333           -         -         -         -
Total Cash Outflow                 1,492      4,907       6,384    2,711    3,355    4,027    4,569    4,312    4,233    3,045    3,537    3,241    3,045
III.  Net Cash Is (Out) Flow                      108        193        239       498    1,065        818      276       533       612    1,800    1,308    1,6o4    1,800
IV.  Net Benefits (l)-(2)-(3)                 (1,492)   (4,907)    (4,811)   1,831    2,839    3,199    2,707    3,003    3,149    3,199    2,707    3,003    3,199
V.  Financial Rate of Return:  21% (before physical contingencies)   Rate of Return on Equity:  18% (after tames)
37  Based on January 1979 prices.  FSDC in Uttar Fredesh would sperata three hatcheries of 10 ha each and a fourth hatchery of 25 ha.  Construction of one 10 ha hatchery and one 25 ha
batchery would commence in year 1.  Construction of the other hatcheries would start in year 2.  Of the project FSDCs, Utts  Pradeah FSDC will have the lowe-t fingerling capacity.
2/ From Annex 3, Tables 4, 5 and 6.
Equity would cover 30% of investient costs, the operating losses in initial years and margin money for working capital financing.
70% of investment costs.
3| From Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5.
Includes typewriters, accounting machines and office furniture.
r/ Three cars at Rs 35,000 sach and one jeep at Rs 65,000.
a/ Eight motorcycles at Rs 8,000 each.
9/  Projected useful life seven years; residual value estimated at 15% of original costs.
1-0/  Includes annual salaries of managing director (HR  30,000), company secretary (Rs 18,000) and seven support staff yRn 3,600 each)
T1/  Includes annual salaries of division manager (Rs 21,600), audit end accounts officer (16,800), financial analyst (Rs 10,800), two accounting assistants (Rs 3,400 each) and
three ouppnrt staff (RH 3,600 each). Staff coots in year 1 estimated at 50% of costs in s-bsequent years.
includes annual salaries of division menager (Rs 24,000) and three support staff (Rs 3,600 each).  Staff would ho hired in yearS,
13/  Cncludes annual salaries of division manager (Rs 21,600), sales and promotion officer (R6 16,800), quality control officer (R. 12,000) and f..e support otsff  SRo 3,600 each).
The division would be fully staffed in year 4.
114/  Includes annual salariec of one executive engineer (RH  21,600), one anoistant engineer (as 14,400), and two oupport otaff (So 3,600 oach).  Engineering staff would be taken
on  deputation during the three year -onstruction period.
15/  In year 1 30,000 km at RH  0.453/*  thereafter 60,000 bE annally.
16/  In year 1 30,000 be at Rs 0.112/be; thereafter&60,000 kb  anually.
7/  In year 1 250 days at Rs 20/day; thereafter 500 days.
1g/  Interest at 14% annually; average working capital required for headquarters estimated a1s Rs 167,,000 it ye-r 1; RS 057,000 in year 2; TS 2 i',tto in yeor 3; and Rs 21 ,000
thereafter.
19/  Calculated at 50% of gerns sales minus operating costs depreciation and interest on ong-term loans.  Taene  hove been ocerowod fir years 6 sod   . ond 10 thro-gh 13.
/   Interest at 10.5% annually;  interest of year 3 capitalied; loan mamrtiied over years 4 through 13.



ANNEX 3
- 58 -                                          Table 4
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Fish Farm Model A (L Ha)
(Rs)
Without                               -With Project----- --- ---------
Project          Year 0-       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3-7       Year 8-10
I. CASH INFLOW
Gross sales 2/ (1)                       175                           1,800        2,700        3,200            3,200
Loan amount 3/                                             893           499
Borrower's contribution 4/                                  47            26
Total Inflow (2)                       175               940         2,325        2,700        3,200           3,200
11. CASH .OUTFLOW
Operating Costs
Fingerlings 4/                           0                             225          225          225              225
Mahua Oil Cake 5/                        0                             300          300          300              300
Cow dung 6/                              0                             330          450          450             450
Lease                                   50                             200          200          200              200
Pond preparation 7/                      0                             320          320          320             320
Maintenance of equipment 8/              0                             190          190          190              190
Operator's wages 9/0                                                   108          108          108             108
Harvesting 10/                          12                              18           18           18               18
Interest on working capital i_         6 0                             118          122          122             122
Total Operating Cost (3)             62                            1,809        193          1,933           1,933
Investment Costs
Earthwork 12/                                            480
Inlet and Outlet 13/                                     260
Fish pond equipment 14/                                  200
Investment Cost Total r(4)                               940
Debt Service 15/                                                        94          324          324
Total Outflow (5)                    62                940         1,905        2,257        2,257           1,933
III.  NET CASH FLOW: (2) - (5)                   113                  0           420          443          943           1,267
IV. FI1NBNCIAL B$NEFITS/COSTS
Benefits (1)    (6)                      175                 0         1,800        2,700        3,200           3,200
Costs (3) + (4) (7)                       62               940         1,809        1,933        1,933           1,933
Net Benefits    (8)                      113              (940)          (9)          767        1,267           1,267
Incremental Net Benefits                                (1,053)         (122)         654        1,154           1,154
V.  EINANCIAL RATE OF RETUXNf:16/               55%
1/  Fish pond imprevements are assumed to be carried out at the beginning of year 1, or for cash flow purpo*ses
at the end of the previous year (year 0).
2/ Based on without project yields of 100 kg/ha of low quality, mixed fish at an average pondside price of
Rs 1.75/kg and full development yields of 800 kg/ha for high quality carp at an average pondside price of
Rs 4.00/kg; yields in years 1 and 2 are assumed respectively to be 50% and 80% of full development yields.
3/ Loan is assumed to cover 95% of fish pond improvement costs and first year cash inputs (fingerlings, mahua
oil cake and chemical fertilizers) in years 0 and 1 respectively. Percentage loan coverage under standard
ARDC terms would range from 85% to 95% depending on borrower's income; loan coverage for selected borrower's
receiving an FFDA subsidy could be as low as 75% depending on size of subsidy.
4/ Stocking rate of 2,500 fingerlings/ha at Rs 90/1,000 fingerlings.
5/ 300 kgs at Rs 1/kg.
6/ 5.5 tons/ha in year 1 and 7.5 tons/ha thereafter at Rs 60/ton.
7/ Dewatering of pond and repairing of dikes.
8/  Maintenance of hand tools, nets and bamboo screens.
9/ Eighteen mandays at Rs 6/manday.
10/  Two mandays without project and three mandays with project at Rs 6/manday.
11/  Interest at 14% annually; average annual working capital estimated at Rs 840 in year 1 and at Rs 869 thereafter.
12/  Deepening of pond and strengthening of dikes, 400 m3 at Rs 2/m3.
13/  Bamboo screens at Rs 130/set.
14/  Hand tools and nets at Rs 200/set.
15/  In year 1 interest only; principal and interest amortized over years 2 through 7.  Interest rate is 10.5% annually.
16/  For 0.5 ha model, rate of return would be 25%.



ANNEX 3
59                                    Table 5
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Fish Farm Model B (H Ha)
(Rs)
Without          ------- ------- With Project-------------------------------
Project          Year 0-7      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3-7        Year 8-10
1. CASH INFLOW
Gross sales 2/  (1)                         795                          3,600         5,400          6,000         6,000
Loan amount 3/                                              2,633           752
Borrower's contribution                                       139            40
Total Inflow (2)                          795             2,772        4,392         6,400         6,000          6,000
II. CASH OUTFLOW
Operating Costs
Fingerlings 4/                             50                             342           342           342           342
Mahua Oil Cake 5/                           0                             300           300           300           300
Cow Dung 6/                               150                             450           600           600           600
Superphosphate 7/                           0                            150            150           150           150
Rice Bran 8/                                0                             620           750           750           750
Lease                                     200                            500            500           500           500
Pond preparation 9/                         0                            338           338            338           338
Maintenance of Equipment 10/               25                             405           405           405           405
Operator's wages 11/                      108                             108           108           108           108
Harvesting 12/                             18                              30            30            30            30
Interest on working capital 13/            28                            204           239            239           239
Total Operating Cost (3)                579                          3,447         3,762         3,762         3,762
Investment Costs
Earthwork 14/                                             1,662
Inlet and Outlet 15/                                        260
Fish pond equipment 16/                                     850
Investment Cost Total (4)                                 2,772
Debt Service 11_                                                         277           789            789
Total Outflov (5)                      579              2,772        3,724         4,551         4,551         3,762
III.  NET CASH FLoS: (2) - (5)                      216                  0          668           849         1,449         2,238
IV. FINANCIAL BENEFITS/COSTS
Benefits (1)              (6)              795                  0        3,600         5,400         6,000         6,000
Costs (3) + (4)           (7)              579              2,772        3,44776                     3,762         3,762
Net Benefits (7) - (8)  (8)                 216            (2,772)         153         1,638         2,238         2,238
Incremental Net Benefit                                    (2,988)        (63)         1,422         2,022         2,022
V.  FIN1ANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:18/                 41%
1J  Fish pond improvements are assumed to be carried out at the beginning of year 1, or for cash flow purposes at
the end of the previous year (year 0).
2/  Based on without project yields of 300 kgs/ha of which 60% would be low quality mixed fish at an average
pondside price of Rs 1.75/kg and 40% major carp at an average paodside price of Rs 4/kg. Yields at project
full development are expected to be 1,500 kgs/ha at an average pondside price of Rs 4/kg. Yields in years I
and 2 are assumed respectively to be 60% and 90% of full development yields.
3/  Loan is assumed to cover 95% of fish pond improvement costs and first year case inputs (fingerlings, mahua
oil cake and chemical fertilizers) in years 0 and I respectively. Percentage loan coverage under standard
ARDC terms would range from 85% to 95% depending on borrower's income; loan coverage for selected borrowers
receiving an FFDA subsidy could be as low as 75% depending on size of subsidy.
4/  Without project, pond is stocked with riverine fingerlings at rate of 500 fingerlings/ha at Rs 100/1,000.
With project, pond is stocked with project fingerlings at rate of 3,800 fingerlings/ha at Rs 90/1,000.
5/  300 kgs at Rs 1/kg.
6/ 2.5 tons without the project, 7.5 tons in year 1 and 10 tons thereafter at Rs 60/ton.
7/ Two hundred and fifty kgs at Rs 0.6/kg.
8/  0.82 tons in year 1, 1 ton thereafter at Rs 750/ton.
9/  Dewatering of pond and repairing of dikes.
10/  Maintenance of hand tools, nets and bamboo screens.
11/  Eighteen mandays at Rs 6/manday.
12/  Three mandays without the project and five mandays with the project at Rs 6/manday.
13/  Interest at 14% annually; average annual working capital estimated at Rs 1,445 in year 1 and Rs 1,710
thereafter.
14/  Deepening of pond and strengthening of dikes; 1,000 m3 at Rs 2/m3.
15/  Bamboo screens at Rs 130/set.
16/  Hand tools and nets at Rs 850/set.
17/  In year I interest only; principal and interest amortized over years 2 through 7.  Interest rate is 10.5%
annually.
18/  For 0.5 ha model, rate of return would be 25%.



ANNEX 3
-60-                                         Table 6
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Fish Farm Model C (1 Ha)
(Rs)
Without                      -----------With Project-----------------------
Projact         Year 0-       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3-7       Year 8-10
I. CASH INFLOW
Gross sales 2/   (1)                   1,860                 0         7,500        9,000        10,000          10,000
Loan amount 3/                                           5,892           969
Borrower's contribution                                    310            51
Total Inflow   (2)                   1,860             6,202         8,520        9,00         10,000          10,000
II. CASH OUTFLOW
Operating Costs
Fingerlings 4/                         100                             450          450           450             450
Mahua Oil Cake 5/                        0                             400          400           400              400
Cow dung 6/                            300                             620          750           750             750
Superphosphate 7/                        0                             170          225           225             225
Rice bran 8/                             0                           1,700        2,250         2,250           2,250
Lease                                  500                           1,200        1,200         1,200           1,200
Pond preparation 9/                     30                             338          338           338             338
Maintenance of equipment 10/            25                             509          509           509             509
Operator's wages 11/                   312                             312          312           312             312
lHarvesting 12/                         30                              48           48            48              48
Interest on working capital 13/         56                             335          438           438             438
Total Operating Costs   (3)        1,353                          6,082        6,920          6,920           6,920
Investment Cost
Earthwork 14/                                         4,662
Inlet and Outlet 15/                                    340
Fish pond equipment 16/                               1,200
Investment Cost Total (4)                             6,202
Debt Service 17/                                                       619       1,599          1,599
Total Outflow (5)                  1,353            .6,202        6,701        8,519         8,519            6,920
III.  NET CASH FLOW: (2) - (5)                    507                0         1,819          481         1,481            3,080
IV. FINANCIAL BENEFITS/COSTS
Benefit (1)              (6)           1,860                 0        7,500         9,000        10,000          10,000
Cost (3) + (4)           (7)          '1353             6,202         6,082         6,920         6,920           6,920
Net Benefit (7) - (8)  (8)               507            (6,202)        1,418        2,080         3,080           3,080
Incremental Net Benefit                                (6,709)          911        1,573          2,573           2,573
V.  FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: jaf               27%
1/  Fish pond improvements are assumed to be carried out at the beginning of year 1, or for c-ash flow purposes
at the end of the previous year (year 0).
2/  Based on without project yields of 600 kgs/ha of which 40% would be low quality mixed fish at an average
pondside price of Rs 1.75/kg and 60% major carp at an average pondside price of Rs 4/kg. Yields at
project full development are expected to be 2,500 kgs/ha at an average pondside price of Rs 4/kg. Yields
in years 1 and 2 are assumed respectively to be 75% and 90% of full development yields.
3/  Loan is assumed to cover 95% of fish pond improvement costs and first year cash inputs (fingerlings,
mahua oil cake and chemical fertilizers) in years 0 and 1 respectively. Percentage loan coverage under
standard ARDC terms would range from 85% to 95% depending on borrower's income; loan coverage for
selected borrowers receiving an FFDA subsidy could be as low as 75% depending on size of subsidy.
4/  Without project, pond is stocked with riverine fingerlings at rate of 1,000 fingerlings/ha at Rs 100/1,000.
With project, pond is stocked with project fingerlings at rate of 5,000 fingerlings/ha at Rs 90/1,000.
5/  400 kgs at Rs 1/kg.
6/  Five tons/ha without the project, 10.3 tons/ha in year I and 12.5 tons thereafter at Rs 60/ton.
7/  Two hundred and eight-three kgs in year 1, 375 kgs thereafter at Rs 0.6/kg.
8/ 2.27 tons in year 1 and 3 tons thereafter at Rs 750/ton.
9/ Five mandays of labor without the project. Dewatering and leveling of pond bottom and repairing of dikes
with the project.
10/  Maintenance of hand tools, nets and bamboo screens.
11/  Fifty-two mandays at Rs 6/manday.
12/  Five mandays without the project and eight mandays with the project at Rs 6/manday.
13/  Interest at 147% annually; average annual working capital estimated at Rs 2,395 in year 1 and Rs 3,130
thereafter.
14/  Deepening of pond and strengthening of dikes; 2,500 m3/ha at Rs 2/im3.
15/  Bamboo screens at Rs 170/set.
16/  Hand tools and nets at Rs 1,200/set.
17/  In year 1 interest only; principal and interest amortized over years 2 through 7.  Interest rate is
10.5% annually.
LJQ  For 0.5 ha model, rate of return would be 20%.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Marketing Costs for Carp, 1978
Rs/kg 1/
---Calcutta Market---        Rural Market
Price Range             Average Price
Producer Level
Pond Side Price                     2.50     8.00                   4.00
Consigner Level
Local Handling                       .20       .20                   .20
Ice and Packing                      .30       .30                     -
Transportation 2/                    .32       .32
Auction Fee                          .60       .60                   .60
Consigner Margin 3/                  .50     1.80                      -
Price to Wholesaler              4.42    11.22                   4.80
Wholesale Level
Transportation and Handling          .54       .54                   .34
Wholesaler Margin 4/                 .95     1.80                   1.00
Price to Retailer                 5.91    13.56                   6.14
Retail Level
Handling                             .62       .62                   .62
Retail Margin                       1.40     3.25                   1.80
Price to Consumer 5/              7.93    17.43                  8.56
1/  Costs and prices for whole fish averaging about 1 kg size.
2/ Shipping distance averages about 600 km to the Calcutta market.
3/ Includes losses and spoilage; ranges from about 15% to 35% depending on
size of fish, fish supplies and seasonal demand.
4/  Includes losses and spoilage; ranges from about 8% to 30% depending on
size of fish, fish supplies, and seasonal demand.
5/  Consumer price for cut-up fish would be about 15% higher than for whole
fish.
Note: In specific cases, several levels in marketing chain may be linked;
for example, producer may act as consigner, or wholesaler may operate
a retail outlet.



INDIA
INIAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return 1/
(R. '000)      -
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       Year 6       Year 7      Year 8        Year 9      Year 10   Year 11    Year 12    Year 13-14    Year 15
1.  PROJECT FISH PYOD AREA DEVELOPED (ha)
Fish Pond Modal A                                                     -           -       8,600       38,000
Flsh Pond Model B                                       -             -      6,800       20.700       27,500
Fish Pond Model C                                       -       11,700      28.300      40_900        51_500
Total Fish PFod Area                                 -        11,700      35,100       70,200      117,000    117,000       117.000         117,000      117.17;000T7  117,n00             117,000   117,000      117,000
II. PROJECT BENEFITS
Groon sal.n of fish with project 2/                             87,750    254,280       463,140      692,380      772,2Z0      801,600
Gross sa1-e of fish without project 3/                          21,762      58,043       94 035      124 302      124 302      124 302
Incremental Benefits                                            65,988    196,237       369 105      568,078     647,98        677 298     677,298       77,i        677,29       77,298     67 77      677         677,293
TII. PROJECT COSTS
t.Fmmt  vots-
H tchary f                                       3,984        20,433      22,614       16,794        4,558                         -        1,142        1,141         486            -           -          _   (28,7702
FSKD  Hecdqorters 5/                             1,595             -           -                          -           -                       272            - 
Appro.c.hRoada 5/                                1,603         6,965       9,270        6,605        1,759            _            _            -            _            _           _
Fish Pond Improvement 6/                        56,196        95,188      98,961       89,770                         -                         -            -            -           -           -
FFDAO Vehicles and Equipm.ent 5/                 3,825        11,284       2,808        5,395        6,062            _            -        1,253        3,697         920       1,768        1,986
Training Centers 2/                                407         6,099       6,099            -            -            -            -        3,285            -            -           -           -
T-chnical Aeaistanco 7/                            321           160         561          241          160            -            -            -            -            -           -           -          -
Physical Coetingenrie- j/                          546         4,550       5 952        4 899        2, 284
Subtotal Investment Canto                     68,477       144,679    146,215      023,704       14,823             -            -       5       ,952  4,838       1,406       1,768       1,986          -   (28,770)
Operating Costs
Project Fingerlings Production 8/                    -             -       1,764       4,599         6,560        7,315        7,462
FSDCS Overhead 9/                                1,785         2,745       2,985        2,910        2,910        2,910        2,910
Transportation of Project Fingerlings LO/            -             -         483        1,245        1,885        2,215        2,285
Procurement of Riverine Fingerlings lI                         5,850       6,970        5,690        8,000        1,400            -
Fish Pond Operatione 12/                             -        56,265    164,572       291,248     417,442      432,112      432,112
FFDAs Incramental Operating Conto L,/                -         1,063       2,783        4,398        8,857       15,786        3,920
Approach Roads Maintenance 14/                       -            75         464        1,002        1,393        1,499        1,499
Training Centers Incremental Costs 15/            _                _         320          640          640          640          640
,subtotal operating Coats                     1,785        65,998    180,541,      311,732      447,687      463,877      450,828      450,828      450,829      450.828   450,828    450,828   450,928    450,829
Cost of fish production without project 16/             -       1       4520  38  807    62,475       81,021
Incremsental Costs                                70,262       196,157    287,799       372,961      381,489     382,856      369,807      375,759      374,645      371,213   371,575    371,793   369,807         341,037
TV.  NET INCRSMENTAL BENEFITS                             (70,262)    (130,169)    (91,562)      (3,856)    186,589       265,062      307,491      301,539      302,653      306,085   305,723    305,505   307,491         336,261
V. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                                    4 2%
1/  Based on January 1979 prices after duties and txeno, u0i01 sn economic wage rate for unekilled labor equal to 70/. of financial wage rates and a foreign exchange preium of 1.16.
i/  Gross sales in the project area would increase in accordanc. with fish pond area developed for Models A, B, and C asumning a one year lag between invegtuenta in pond improwessets (see fortnote 65 and
esulting production increases.  For yield asn-ptions, see Annex 3, Tables 4, 5, and 6.
3/ For without project price and yield assumptions., ee AD..x 3, Tables 4, 5, and 6.
4/ For financial investment canto, see An.ex 2, Tables 4 and 5.  Equipnent will be replaced after 7 yearn with salvage value of hatcheries in year 15 estimated at 40/. of civil works cost and 100% of land value.
/  For financial caste see Annox 2, Table 3. F8DC equipment will be replaced after 7 years.
6/  Fish pond improvement in total project area of 117,000 ha would be phased over a period of four years (years 1-4). For financial investment corst for fish pond model6 A, 9, and C, see Ann.. 3, Tables 4, 5, and 6.
7/  Financial costs for technical assistance for project imple-entation (expatriate hatchery engineer and hatchery management specialist) are estimated at Rs 620,000 each.
8/  For the number of fingerlings produced see pars 5.01.  F.r financial operating costs see Ann.. 3, sable= 1 and 2.
/   See Annex 3, Table 3.
lOf  Financial transportation costs are estimated at Rs 5/1,000 fingerlings.
LI/  Fingerlings from existing sources at a cost of Rs 100/1,000 are required in initial project years before hatch-ries go fully operational.                                                                                                     a
121  For financial operating costs for fish ponds  aee Annex 3, Tables 4, 5, -d 6 for modelt A, B, and C respectively.  Wlithout project lease costs have been included as an estimate of annual land and .ater value.
../  For incremental staff  oste see Annex 2, Tabfe 9. Vehicle operating costs have been estimared at Ra 0.453/Io  for jeeps and Rn 0.112/hk  for motorcyclon; niscelloneous operating costs hove been estisated at 20% of
incresental stlff nosts before deputation allowances.
14f Estimated at 5% of investment costs.
15/  Incremental operating cost per training center  have been estisated at 4/. of total onnual speroting coat of Rs 400,000.  Training centers would be operational by year 2 and fully staffed by year 4.
v1/ For financial operating costs without the project, see An.ec 3, Tables 4, 5, sod 6.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements I'
IBRD FY                                                 Cumulative
and Quarters                   Disbursements            Disbursements
(tJ--___----(US$ 000)         
June, 1980                            0                         0
September, 1980                      50                        50
December, 1980                       50                       100
March, 1981                          95                       195
June, 1981                          205                       400
September, 1981                     200                       600
December, 1981                      375                       975
March, 1982                         300                     1,275
June, 1982                          550                     1,825
September, 1982                     540                     2,365
December, 1982                      660                     3,025
March, 1983                         885                     3,910
June, 1983                          890                     4,800
September, 1983                   1,000                     5,800
December, 1983                    1,300                     7,100
March, 1984                       1,550                     8,650
June, 1984                        1,950                    10,600
September, 1984                   2,400                   13,000
December, 1984                    3,095                    16,095
March, 1985 2/                    3,905                    20,000
1/ Credit effectiveness is assumed to be April 1, 1980.
2/ Credit closing date would be September 30, 1985.



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. IBRD, India: High Quality Carp Hatcheries Project, Draft,
August 8, 1978.
2. IBRD, Inland Fisheries Project, Draft, October 11, 1978.
3. F.F.D.A. Champaran, Guidelines, rules and norms for the working
of Fish Farmers Development Agency, Champaran, Bihar.
4. The Marine Products Export Development Authority, India
Statistics of Marine Products Exports, 1975.
5. Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of India,
(Department of Agriculture), Report of the Fish Seed Committee,
1966.
6. Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, New Delhi, Government of
India, Report of the National Commission on Agriculture,
Part VIII Fisheries, 1976.
7. Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (Department of Agriculture)
Government of India, New Delhi, Tenth Meeting of The Central
Board of Fisheries, New Delhi, 22nd & 23rd March, 1976.
8. National Council of Applied Economic Research, Demand for Fish and
its Transportation and Storage in Selected Cities, 1977.



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Inland Fisheries Organization Chart
Secretary
Department of Agriculture
and Rural Development
Additional Secretary
Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
Joint Secretary
Fisheries
Administration                 Fisheries Division
Plan Coordination           Inland Fisheries                                           
II
|  nland  isheries                                                                                          Infand Fisheries  ll
|General Development  |                                                                              l         Projectll
I    Project Fish Farmer               Monitoring                   Hatchery
Fresh Water Fisheries     Brackish Water Fisheries    Inlard Fisheries Training                           Development             Hatchery Operations,             Engineering
Programs                    Programs                 and Extension                                    Agencies               Credit and Reporting                Cell
CENTRAL PROJECT UNIT
World Bank - 20293



- 66 -
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
State Fisheries Departments
Generalized Organization Chart-1
Secretary
Fisheries
Additional Secretary
Fisheries
lzil_zI
Joint Secretary
Fisheries
Director of
F ishe ries
STATE PROJECT UNIT
r ----------_-_--_-
Administrationll
.    l                          ~~~~~~~~~~Proectl
L Stati.sticsl
Fish Farmer                  Monitoring           I
,Development Agencies        Fish Seed Operations
and Training            Credit and Reporting
General Programs                           Field Operations                            Marineramshernd
Inland Fisheries                           Inland Fisheries                              Programsan
*..
_  Extension                        Zones
>    Reservoirs  ||11 Specific organizational structure is different in each project State.
_{    Planning                                                                               B
VVorld Bank -20310



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
FISH SEED DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Organization Chart
Board of
Directors
Managing
[_Director
r   Hatchery__CopnSerty|
Engineering                                                                         [F nycretar
Planning, Finance &                                   Manager                                      Manager Marketing      |                                                            a
Administration                                    Production                                     & Quality Control
Financial                     Audit and                 [       Hatchery                       Quality Control             Sales and Promotion
Analyst                   Accounts Officer                     Managers                            Officer                       Officer
Accou nting                        Hatchery
Assistants                          Staff         j
World Bank - 20294



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year 1                          Year 2                         Year 3              |Year 4                                      Year 5
Hatcheries andRr  B     -
Establishment                    *                                                                                    -[                        _______________
Establishment              "**";:_5i5i                                                                                 s|i[t5it_ __              
|Planning, Contracting   lmm11;L    GI6      
H atcherigSuy Egi_nee 4 r i~~~
World Bank k-21012



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Hatchery and Approach Road Construction1'
Implementation Schedule
_  Pond      Year 1                Year 2                Year 3                 Year 4               Year 5
State      No.                                                                                                       1  ----1 -
rea                         T      -m- A-~~FMAMJTJ,AS ONDJFMFJJASOND T  M~IMJ JA MAMJSO   T   MJJA7NF+N    
VVest      4      25
Bengal                         T 25  P.
3 25
4     10                                                                                               H
Pradesh  3      25 
Uttar                                                                                 gl 
m - m Construction
World Bank-20304






IBRD 14268
hMAy 1979
CHINA
w~~~~-'<T ~~~~~~~INDIA
PAK  I       sfA " g a,.~                                                GUIINGS                  _     _ROAD_ S CENTRALCHANNEL                                   INLAND     FISHERIES   PROJECT
INDIA                              B~ OUNARS FEC                                              USDIV  R S GN ATOES
5,015 ',,   INDIA   l-yk8)NauA                                  BOUNDARYTENCE               r     SUS~SIDIARYGATES                                   PLAN   OF  25  HECTARE  HATCHERY  MODEL
TFLL IEMAANKMENTI        F        PONDS
TUBEWELLS                                                                                   0            50          100                      2L0
APAPARK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EANd77ZP  i
C- S-F- --
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RTA   I yS  4                                                 i        F KA
N r A    fF                                                                                                                    0|0                                                      






IBRD 14269
AMAIY 770
PAKISTAN >      L  'V.       RTUTAN_-r auezcos/cNMae
.9II> --     ,,^INLAND  FISHERIES PROJECT
IND A               \9BAU LD NGS                                                                                  G -      CENTRAL CHANNELS
NSA               INO ESTA                              ,, <,ROADS                                   _            911 C-                             DIVISI ONBOXES PLANS OF 5                                     AND 10 HECTARE HATCHERY MODELS
205RAD                                                                                          DIVISION BOXESOF                                                                                            H T       ER
\ d . > eSe ....... q-      1. . BOUNDARY FENCES                                             SUBSIDIARY GATES
F -LIEMSAN-MENTB_    PONDS                                                                                  L  .                                        -    _
TUBEWELLS
- '1; - SI                                                                                                                                    R-
I~~~~~~OS                Of   C            .    t4.sEL;....                                                                                                             ....... T    ,     /  Be ;  \S]Ed)<EAC E  OSfAD)  ST _TE
d~                                 ,SSASE                                                                                                                   -- -uv                          -
I    -
BN-  CA
L   ~            ~             Li                                                                                                                                             
j   CAKES    AR~~~~~~~AAAf   [                                                                                                (SEES  SEASTS~~~~~~~~
J                     II 
5 HECTARE HATCHERY MODEL                                                                       10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~I    HECTAR   HACHR  MODEL






INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Plan of 10 Ha and 25 Ha Model Hatchery Building
19.00
15.90              _25
!                                                                                   ;_,~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water  
To Drain                          :10 Ha Model                5HaModel                                   Water Supply p
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Scale 1:100                                                  ___                               ____
in Metres                                                     -     i =_//_1 y_ 
Store
2.3~~~~~.
L@ Hatchling Tank    -f|_
($ Hatchling Collecting
Channel (below floor level)./
I I L X J ~~~~~~~Removable 
Wooden Bridges                   \
|  DrainageG i
To Drain  10HaModelHaModelVy5 Ha Model 10.0 m Long
g Tk10 Ha Model 13.4 m Long
03   Breeder Holding Tank ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~       Wrd  an  -201






INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Hatchery Building Cross Section
Reinforced Concrete Roof Slab
Insulating Screen                  Water Proofing
Rubble Masonry or Block Work
in Cement Mortar Plastered
Both Faces
Hatchling Tank with
10 Nets Each 0.5 Dia.
3.80                      0     0.70        0.90
_ Wate~~~r SUPPlY/v
3.50                        2 No  Faucets Per Tank
B / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Overflow %
Reinforced                                   'Tnk Drain to Canl.                                                 Drainage
Concrete Tank
..    . ':.. Hatchling Collectin g                                    hne    
o ^ . ', :.          ~with Wooden Bridges Between Tanks       /                .,  .. |
6.10 m      Plain Concrete
Scale 1:50                                                                     Building Founded
in Metres                                                                     at Top Bund Level,
approximately 2 m
above OGL (Original Ground Level)
World Bank -20216



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Central Channel and Perimeter Bund
Cross Sections
Central Channel
2.0                                                                                            .75           2 5          75~~~~~~~~7.
1 .85 ~  ~      +.8
Sce 1 100Ma  Water Leve  1.5                                                                                                    +25Ma75
<<: Cut-off Wall*    CROSSCentral Channel  A       uto Wa OGL                                             o ef
_ --f-)t ~~~~-0.5                                                                           < 0.15  6                                                                               -- jZ5
_ X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rubble Maso nry                                                                    .__15tVegetation                                     Approx
J                                        i                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~       ~~~~~~~~Pitching  <2    eoe
6.70                                   3.8                                 6.70                         .'0.5
Scale 1:100                                                                     CROSS SECTION A-A                                 '8 Cut-off Wall to be of soilI
All Levels Measured from                                                                                                                                of 20% to 30% clay content,                         -u
OGL (Original Ground Level)                                                                                                                             placed and compacted. Depth
to be minimum of 1.0 m below
Perimeter Bund                                                       pond bottom,
,                  _                  ~~~~~~~~~~~14.0 
10 Yr Return Flood  +1.8i   etr
+                          1.5 Max
>]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Ban  - 2021
n  Boundary Fence                                                         .T Cu-of                     _    <
tl Wall _ _ 2 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OG L                                                                  ?           Pond
><Drainage I  _.
%   Channel   ws  _1 0  ~ ~~~~~~~    Vegetation                  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Removed                                               -1.5*
10   1.5    1 1.0  1 1.5                                                                           kS 
-1- -1- - ' a W S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iCn MetrreOs
1.85
Min .
CROSS SECTION B-B
World Bank-20217



INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Pond Dividing Bunds
+1.50 Max.!                                  17           +1.50 Max.
-0.5 Approx ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. ppo
Vegetation
Stripped                             1.5-
Scale 1:100
in Metres
CROSS SECTION C-C
All levels measured from
OGL (Original Ground Level)
*Cut-off Wall to be of soil                      **Pond bottoms to be trimmed
of 20% to 30% clay content,                      to falls to drain to subsidiary
placed and compacted. Depth                       gates. Levels to be such as to
to be minimum of 1.0 m below                      provide fill materials for ponds
pond bottom.                                      but to be at least 0.4 m below OG L.
World Bank -20218



- 74 -
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Details of Subsidiary Gate
I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road
:.75           2.5            75                               1
Water Level         +1.80                                                           +1.80                         +1.80       |Water Level
Ceante;.Kral                                                Mound             tLCut-off VVa l                                          3 No. Grooves
1 ^ - < r L |o g Dia. Concrete Pipe         |                                   --0.5 Approximately
7        Pitfched                                                    t 2l ass Concrete
Channel Eed                                                                                                     Foundation Slab
CROSS SECTION
R:' Road- ...
Top Water                           -25                          Top Water Mark
Mark
Mortared
Rubble
]  Access > ; ;0 it;;;;; 00 0 j j ;00;;T;Access                                                     .3 1.5 3
2 t  \     t       ~Mound   Jit;:l;0000 ::03.f:$0   
1.0
. ... .... ...ma 
Central Channel                  {                 t=-t H: : HH  _J       ....                                                                  -  1.4-    Pond
f t .::l,,::00 -1 ','l ...... ....  ..
....... ;;;:;::;;g;:0;0;: 1;;;;;00-0:0:0:0:0-0:                \    |     Reinforced
I.    .. l   l   ;;:;; -;: ;-: 0 0 t gf 0 0g:t;ft ;E:i:igg:0000f i:   l  Concrete   Head
Structure with
Top of                                                                 .......                                                     2 Tumber
Pitched                                                                                                                            Stop Boards and
Slope                                                                                                                             1 Screen
Scale 1 :100
PLAN                                   in Metres
All Levels Measured from
OGL lOriginal Ground Levell
For details of cut off wail see chart nos. 3 and 4
For locations of subsidiary gates see IBRD nos.
World Bank --20219



- 75 -
INDIA
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT
Details of Division Box
Road
1.5                4.0              2.5             4-0                 1
+1.5 Max.                   +1.85                                                                        +1.5 Max.
| Earth Fill                         |                             | 2 No. Grooves
OGL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
Pitc h        e.9 Dia                            d       Reinforced               +OGL
-0.5                                             Concrete PiPe               j +0.5 -_ __----  
Concrete Pipe                                                  O         Pitched Bed
Pitched                                       Bedding                                                                to Channel
Bed to Channel                                                                                   Mass Concrete
CROSS SECTION                       Foundation 0.3 Thick
Bed ofMToortared
CentrlRubble Masonry o                                                                          1  -         -
Wall .5 Thick
Cha l   P2.5      |             Reinforced
AllLeeMeasuredfromA                     in MesConcrete Head
G   (Origil G d LlStructure with
1   i3  |   !             WrBoard and
\t  t                              l                  l           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Screen
Bed of      Top   |                                                                              I         l                 TChannel |Top
-CentralI-Edge of -                                                                                     H                  1.14 -Central -Edge of
Channel  Pitching                                                         |                                                          l4_--_;=4----|11|Bed of Pitching
Scale 1:1 00
All Levels Measured from                                      PLAN                                                           in Metres
OGL (Original Ground Level)
World Bank -20220






IBRD  14267R
7B-                                      SEPTEMBER 1979
\'.\ Bus   X                          vnqr,                                  A itz ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28-
-28-                                                               U  T T ,    ,P '                s j
INLAND FISHERIES PROJECT                                                                                                                                              'BHUTAN
PROPOSED PROJECT AREA                           PR 4/DA   L,
PROJECT STATE BOUNDARIES
PROJECT D STRICTS                                                                                                                                                    ('         '
gf'!J/)>, ONGOING  F.F.D.A's,
i    PROPOSED HATCHERIES
D SIRIC  HEADQUARIERS
 SlATE CAPIIALS                        4
RIVERS                                                      /
MAJOR ROADS
SELECTED MAJOR RAIL L NES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    M         D
24~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
'     50  0    I5  200          250   300 K2CMETES-
AFGhANhT4r~~                                                                    '__ '"'                             ,' t-       '  >'                  ,,< rctc\1
50~~~ ~~~~ ~ ~     ~                                                           . 10    200', 2'    /                             ,     ,'ltil. 'I               / .5.0$
DEM REP OF f_ /t<,j
C H I N A
PAh,STANI  *     (    :7-                                  MmA HAM    A  5HTRAA
R FiUA g   ,/                                                                                                              -                                                         0IA I  20'
. 9    X         MAO 01AA                  1'            -
1        0'          '  RAOOSi / <86R1A uV  U-   ' ,( -  ,''    i
N  D    A   -  CfSSA        | AB0F0f/
A NADHRA
y i 9                       E i  :: PRA  DESH      'O     ..I
Th _p has bso  Mr  ha   1-ks -.aff ',  lb.-d._hesodeoc 
Rk  /         0t          ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ,h epsnAsn pf oeF nD//ess, o,,f tfatcn  h kss,ioSue n h
en  ,ANKA  -  .                                                                                                     thk,sOh 4o hpc \,,,ph,, SE  'a,rshths Won/S SOons andts
: 2 tt:   :/S>tAKAr J   r  ;: 2:   '.\E          >      82    >,.:            .:    f n                           8;f)~~~~~~~~-hh



