CREDIT NUMBER 963 IN
Orissa Project Agreement
(Inland Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated   Atb.7/V1980t


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 963 IN
ORISSA PROJECT AGREEMENT
/03-
AGREEMENT, dated               /(3 .?  1980, between INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO (hereinafter called the Associ-
ation) and STATE OF ORISSA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Orissa).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Association entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Orissa shall carry out or cause to be carried
out Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement as said Part B of the Project applies to
Orissa with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Orissa shall, by April 30, 1980:
(a) establish, and thereafter maintain and operate, the SMCC
with responsibilities inter alia for policy guidance and review of
Project execution in Orissa; and
(b) establish, to monitor and coordinate Project execution,
and thereafter maintain and operate the SPU with powers, respon-
sibilities and key staff satisfactory to the Association, and
headed by a full-time officer not below the rank of a Joint
Director.
Section 2,04. Orissa shall cause the SPU to prepare, in
consultation with the CPU, and furnish to the Association through
the CPU, by May 31, 1980, a work plan and a schedule for the
implementation of the part of the Project for which Orissa is
responsible.
Section 2.05. Orissa shall:
(a) establish by April 30, 1980, under the Companies Act
1956 and operate throughout the Project execution period, of the
Borrower, the FSDC and throughout such period shall not change the
Memorandum and Articles of Association thereof without prior
consultation with the Association;
(b) by April 30, 1980, pay in an initial capital subscrip-
tion in an amount of Rsl,000,000;
(c) provide the FSDC, promptly as needed, the funds required
to meet at least 30% of hatchery investment costs, which funds
shall be additional to the amount specified in paragraph (b)
above;
(d) by April 30, 1980, employ in the FSDC a suitably quali-
fied Managing Director;
(e) appoint thereto, (i) by May 31, 1980 an Executive
Engineer, and (ii) by June 30, 1981, three suitably qualified
Senior Executive Managers;


﻿-3-
(f) cause the FSDC to furnish to the Association, through
CPU: (i) by May 31, 1980, proposals for the selection and acquisi-
tion of two hatchery sites; and (ii) by September 30, 1980,
proposals for the selection and acquisition of the remaining
hatchery sites for the Project Sub-Area, all in accordance with
the guidelines set forth in the Schedule to the ARDC Agreement;
(g) ensure that the FSDC shall, during the execution of
the Project, carry out business, on a commercially viable basis,
related mainly to the production, promotion and marketing of fish
seed, unless otherwise agreed by the Association; and
(h) ensure that, in the Project Sub-Area, Orissa shall
not sell fingerlings at prices below FSDC's prices for similar
fingerlings.
Section 2.06. Orissa shall establish, by March 31, 1981,
and throughout the Project execution period maintain and operate,
an FFDA to serve each district of the Project Sub-Area where no
FFDA is already operating, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.07. Orissa shall take all necessary steps to ensure
that, by June 30, 1980, lease terms for public waters are avail-
able, in the Project Sub-Area, to Fish Farmers participating
in the Project, for a minimum period of 10 years.
Section 2.08. Orissa shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the carrying out of its part of the Project and, if requested by
the Association, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to its part of the Project.
Sectio-n 2.09. (a) Orissa undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Orissa
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.10. (a) Orissa shall cause -SPU to collect and
furnish to the Association through CPU, promptly upon their
preparation the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and work and procurement schedules for its part of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Orissa shall cause SPU, FFDAs and FSDC to: (i) maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of its part of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
said part of the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in said part of the Project and to examine the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion through CPU at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the said part of
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, and all such other
information as the Borrower, through CPU, shall reasonably request
in order to enable the Borrower to carry out its obligations under
Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) Orissa shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of FFDAs and FSDC and
any relevant records and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of its part of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Association and Orissa, Orissa shall cause SPU to prepare and
furnish to the Association through CPU a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of its part of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Association and Orissa of their respective


﻿-5-
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.11. (a) Orissa shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of its part of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Orissa shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of its part of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performancr- by Orissa of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.12. Orissa shall throughout the Project execution
period adequately maintain and repair, or cause to be adequately
maintained and repaired, the hatchery approach roads to be con-
structed under its part of the Project, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the
purpose.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FSDC
Section 3.01. Orissa shall cause FSDC to: (a) at all times
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound commercial, financial and fisheries practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by experienced and competent staff in adequate number; and (b)
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain, and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 3.02. Orissa shall cause FSDC to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Orissa shall and shall cause FSDC to maintain
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its oper-
ations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) Orissa shall cause FSDC to maintain
separate accounts of expenditures made under its part of the
Project.
(b) Orissa shall cause FSDC to: (i) have said accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-7-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Orissa of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Orissa:
Secretary to Government of Orissa
Forest, Fisheries and Animal
Husbandry Department
Bhubaneswan, Orissa
India


﻿-8-
Cable address:
CHIEF SEC
Bhubaneswan
India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or Dermitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by the
Secretary to the Government of Orissa, Forest, Fisheries and
Animal Husbandry Department or such other person or persons as
Orissa shall designate in writing, and Orissa shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ORISSA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the AssoSiation
thereunto the            day of(  AMdk1-
FOR SECRETARY


