CREDIT NUMBER 963 IN
ARDC Agreement
(Inland Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated          UqL)04 r  /        , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 963 IN
ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    ' ad6y      /&,            1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and     AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ARDC agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS by financial arrangements to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARDC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ARDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative and financial practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. ARDC shall enter into financial arrangements
with the Borrower on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including inter alia, those set forth in Schedule
4 to the Development Credit Agreement. ARDC shall duly perform all
its obligations under said financial arrangements. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, ARDC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, assigning
or waiving the provisions of said financial arrangements.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, ARDC and the
Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. ARDC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof), and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the
Project, the cost thereof, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. (a) ARDC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion:
(i) exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Part A of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the financial arrangements and
other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and


﻿-3-
(ii) furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request in respect
of Part A of the Project.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARDC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the financial arrangements.
Section 2.08. ARDC shall, in respect of each State, prepare
and furnish to the Association, a banking plan, satisfactory
to the Association, which shall: (i) include CPU's technical
review and approval of proposed hatchery designs and engineering
plans and assistance during supervision of loans under Part A.1 of
the Project, and the detailed technical criteria for hatchery site
selection based on the guidelines set forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement; (ii) identify the Participating Banks and the
engineering and fisheries staff requirements of the Participating
Banks and of ARDC; and (iii) specify the terms, conditions and
procedures of lending by Participating Banks and of refinancing by
ARDC as described under Part A of the Project and Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business or in the carrying out of Part A of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ARDC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. ARDC shall cause the Participating Banks: (i)
to maintain separate accounts for loans made in respect of Part A
of the Project; and (ii) to send to the Association through ARDC
their audited accounts (together with an analysis of overdue and
bad debts and a statement certified by ARDC of their Project
lending) not later than four months after the end of each of their
fiscal years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) a date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment; or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agrement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARDC of this event.


﻿-5-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation
Shriniketan
F Block
Shiv Sat. r Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 400018
India


﻿-6-
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement, on behalf of ARDC, may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall
designate in writing and ARDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By     <;     14W   6   '
/~ /              Regional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
/            Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Guideline Criteria for
Selection of Project Hatchery Sites
Selection of hatchery sites will be based on technical and
socio-economic criteria, considering inter alia the following
factors for each site:
(a) availability of land in a contiguous, suitably shaped
plot of sufficient size for all facilities (approximately 33 ha of
land for 25 ha hatcheries and 14.4 ha of land for 10 ha hatch-
eries);
(b) availability of assured water supplies of adequate
quality;
(c) site surveys and soil testing to determine the suitabil-
ity of the site for the engineering works envisaged;
(d) soil testing to determine suitability for fish culture;
(e) freedom from frequent deep flooding, such that the
10-year return flood is no higher than about 1.85 meters above the
average original ground level;
(f) reasonable proximity to the area of demand for finger-
lings;
(g) proximity to all-weather road connections;
(h) availability of electricity and, if possible, telephone
connections; and
(i) avoidance of significant social displacement, particu-
larly in heavily populated areas.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Asso iation
thereunto the          -day of
19FR_O
FOR SECRETARY


