Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4670-CV 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 18, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4670-CV 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated December 18, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of : (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nine million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9, 500, 000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06.    The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment schedule 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
 carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01 The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6. 02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 C.P. 
30 
 Praia 
 Cabo 
Verde 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
COORDENACAO 
608 MCECV 
 
 
(238) 61 38 97 
 
6. 03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Washington, DC, District of Columbia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
By /s/ Fatima Veiga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ McDonald P. Benjamin 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following, namely that the Recipient has:
 
Promote Good Governance  
1. 
Completed the implementation of the second phase of the 2005 plan for the clearance of 
public arrears as evidenced by the reduction of outstanding public arrears to 16 percent of the 
original stock as confirmed by 
the Recipient’s Minister of Finance on letter dated 
 
October 15, 2009. 
2. 
Submitted to its National Assembly the audited: (a) State General Accounts for the year 
2006, as evidenced by the 
Boletim Oficial
 I Serie, Number 14, dated April 6, 2009; and  
(b) accounts of key municipalities and embassies, as evidenced in the letter issued by the 
Recipient’s 
Tribunal de Contas
 dated September 10, 2009. 
3. 
Approved, through its 
Conselho de Ministros
 the regulations of the new public 
procurement law, as evidenced by the 
Boletim Oficial
 I
Serie Number1 dated January 5, 2009. 
4. 
Completed the integration of 11 municipalities, within the territory of the Recipient, to 
the Municipal Information System (SIM), as evidenced by the letter issued by the Recipient’s 
Minister of Decentralization, Housing and Territorial Development dated September 10, 2009.  
5. 
Approved, through its National Assembly, the Statistical Law, as evidenced by the 
Boletim Oficial
 Serie I, Number 9, dated March 2, 2009. 
Support Competitiveness and Growth 
6.  
Approved through its 
Conselho de Ministros
 the reduction in corporate tax rates for 
businesses, as evidenced by the 2009 Budget Law published as a supplement of the 
Boletim 
Oficial
 Serie I, Number 48, dated December 29, 2008. 
7. 
Completed the initial phase of implementation of  the Recipient’s action plan  which will 
adjust the Recipient’s procedures and legislation on trade  to those of  WTO on such sector, 
including the: (a) approval by its 
Conselho de Ministros
 of an ecological tax bill, as evidenced by 
the letter issued by the the 
Conselho de Ministros 
on
September 3, 2009; and (b) approval by its 
Conselho de Ministros
 of the draft-law for the customs’ code consistent with WTO, as evidenced 
in the letter issued by the  
Conselho de Ministros
 on
October 30, 2009. 
8. 
Approved, through: (a) its 
Conselho de Ministros
,
the Cadastre Decree- Law as 
evidenced by the 
Bolletim  Oficial
 I Serie, Number 33 dated August 17, 2009; and (b) its Prime 
Minister Office, the appointment of a task force empowered to implement the Cadastre Law, as 
evidenced by the instruction (
Despacho)
 Number 2/2009 issued jointly by the Minister of Finance 
and the Minister of Decentralization, Housing and Territorial Development on January 12, 2009. 
Page  7
6
9. 
Reduced exposure of off-shore banking as shown by the closure and cancellation of 
license of a non-compliant off-shore institution as evidenced by the Decree No 4/2009, published 
in the 
Boletim Oficial
,
Serie I, Number 7, dated February 19, 2009. 
10. Approved, 
through 
its 
Conselho de Ministros
,
a
medium term development strategy for 
the electricity sector, prepared by its Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, as evidenced by 
the letter from its Conselho de Ministros dated November 20, 2009. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
9, 500, 000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9, 500, 000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2019  to and including June 
15, 2029 
1.25% 
commencing December 15, 2029 to and including June 
15, 2044 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“
Boletim Oficial
”
means the Recipient’s Official Gazette.  
2. “
Conselho de Ministros
”
means the Recipient’s Council of Ministers. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667  
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  10
9
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated August 7, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Tribunal de Contas” means the Recipient’s court of auditors. 
8. 
“WTO” means World Trade Organization. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Page  11
10 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
Page  12
11 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
