Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4801 
Operation Name 
Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P113306 
Borrower(s) 
 
Republic of Cape Verde 
Cape Verde 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Administration 
Ministerio das Finan
ças e Administraçao 
Praia 
Cape Verde 
Tel: (238-2) 607-520   
manuelp@gov1.gov.cv 
Date PID Prepared 
May 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 6, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 29, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Cape Verde has experienced robust growth with real GDP growth averaging 8.1 percent during the 
period 2005-07 (the 10 year average growth 1998-2007 reached 7.2 percent).  Growth has been driven 
by strong public and private investment (driven by significant foreign direct investment -FDI), directed 
largely towards infrastructure, tourism and telecommunications. Growth projections for 2008 were 
revised slightly downwards in September 2008 from 6.5 percent to 6 percent to reflect global 
developments, which have contributed to a slowdown in the volume of FDI, tourism and remittances.  
Preliminary estimates indicate that tourism receipts declined by about 2 percent in 2008 compared to 
2007.  FDI increased in 2008 by 9 percent compared to 2007, thanks to the good performance observed 
in the first semester.  In contrast, in the second semester, real estate projects decelerated due to 
difficulties by developers, mainly Europeans, in securing long-term financing.  Furthermore, 
remittances, which have been following a declining trend since 2006, decreased by 17 percent in 2008 
compared to 2007.   
The adoption of sound macroeconomic policies in Cape Verde in recent years has corrected the 
imbalances of the beginning of the decade and prepared the country to smooth the impact of external 
shocks, including increased prices of food and oil and, more recently, the global financial crisis. 
Monetary policy has focused over the past years on strengthening the sustainability of the exchange rate 
peg to the Euro (by building up reserves and ensuring price stability) and fiscal policy has been 
consistent with macroeconomic stability and debt sustainability. Inflation has increased in recent years 
(reaching 6.8 percent in 2008) but this has been mainly supply driven and a large component is imported 
inflation.  While it is difficult to estimate the impact of the global economic slowdown on Cape Verde in 
the medium term, its strong economic performance in recent years has helped the economy to be better 
prepared to deal with the global economic slowdown. Overall, Cape Verde’s macroeconomic policy 
framework is strong and sustainable over the medium term.   Fiscal discipline and the fixed exchange 
Page  2
rate with respect to the euro are conducive to price stability.  In addition, the medium term reform 
program targets a number of macro-critical actions in trade, tourism, financial services, tax, land 
management and energy that would reduce fiscal risks and support accelerated growth. 
 The proposed operation builds on the results achieved under PRSC 1 through 4, which supported 
policies and reforms that achieved sustained improvements in the well-being of the population in the 
health and education sectors.  This new series marks a shift of Bank support from health and education 
sectors towards a support to the growth and competitiveness agenda.  This shift reflects the new 
priorities of the Government’s growth and poverty reduction strategy as well as the positive results 
obtained in the health and education sectors after the five-year period of sustained Bank involvement. 
The initial series was largely successful in achieving its program objectives and the assessment was 
satisfactory.  It supported policies and reforms that achieved sustained improvements in the well-being 
of the population in the health and education sectors.  Linked to the Government policies supported by 
the first series of PRSCs is a significant reduction in poverty from 37% in 2001 to 27% in 2007.  As 
acknowledged in the relevant ICR, the five-year period of sustained Bank involvement in education and 
health has delivered good results and Bank’s continued involvement in those sectors would likely, at this 
point, yield diminishing returns as sustainable poverty reduction needs to be grounded in a competitive 
fast growing economy. 
This operation is being developed in parallel to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and is a key tool 
to support its three strategic objectives.  The IDA PRSC series will continue to be the main instruments 
for supporting reforms in public financial management, strengthening public administration and the 
business environment.  But, the budget support program will focus increasingly on reforms to strengthen 
private sector development to boost competitiveness, reflecting the new priorities of the Government 
and, therefore, those of the Bank (as reflected in GPRSP and the CAS).  Other donors will complement 
this focus by continuing to support human development, environment and social protection outcomes 
directly.
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the operation is to support policies and institutions aimed at developing a dynamic 
private sector-led services sector to be the engine of sustainable growth and poverty reduction. This 
includes support to the development of human resource capacity and skills for both, public and private 
sectors; the strengthening of land management and; the development of an appropriate enabling 
environment to attract and retain capital. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed PRSC-V is the first operation of a new series of 3 one-year operations that aim to support 
the implementation of the Government’s Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, as presented in the 
Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP II).  The new series will “support policies and 
institutions aimed at developing a dynamic private sector-led services sector to be the engine of 
sustainable growth and poverty reduction”. This new series marks a shift of Bank support from health 
and education sectors towards a support to the growth and competitiveness agenda, thereby following 
the new priorities of the Government’s growth and poverty reduction.  In so doing, it will selectively 
support the Government’s efforts in the five pillars of the GPRSP (i.e. government reform, human 
resources, competitiveness, economic infrastructure and social cohesion).  
Page  3
The proposed operation will have two main policies areas: (i) good governance and, (ii) competitiveness 
and growth.  Good governance, broadly defined, includes macroeconomic policies, public financial 
management (PFM), procurement, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), statistics and state modernization.  
Competitiveness constitutes the main multi-sector anchor for the proposed operation and includes 
human capital, trade, tourism, financial services, tax, land management and energy issues.  
Cape Verde is transitioning from a least developed country to a lower middle income country (MIC) and 
requires more support in ensuring that growth rates are sustained and its public sector reaches a new 
level of performance consistent with middle income countries in terms of transparency and efficiency.  
Support for this transition becomes particularly important in view of the current global financial crisis. 
The proposed operation is aimed at fostering private sector development in Cape Verde consistent with 
the GPRSP II, which recognizes that poverty cannot be reduced without a robust broad-based growth 
agenda grounded in a competitive economy.  Although Cape Verde has successfully attracted significant 
quantities of foreign direct investment in tourism, the business environment remains difficult, and the 
Government will need to implement several reforms to attract private investments.  Cape Verde had a 
relatively low ranking in the World Bank’s 2009 Doing Business (DB) Report, with a ranking of 143 out 
of 181 economies, which constituted a decline in performance from a year earlier.   
With the main focus on private sector development, the proposed operation will also support relevant 
public sector reforms.  Good governance is seen by GOCV as a strategic pillar to attract private capital 
in a MIC environment.  It is proposed that the operation continues the support initiated earlier in the 
critical areas of public financial management broadly defined.  Statistics and monitoring and evaluation 
deserve special mention: the quality, quantity and timeliness of Cape Verde data is weak compared to 
countries with similar level of development.  While PRSC5 will contribute to poverty reduction mainly 
through enhanced growth policies it is also proposed that the PRSC series support new types of efforts 
to help the GOCV to be more efficient in its fight to reduce poverty.  Currently, public spending geared 
towards the most vulnerable population is not efficient and little targeting is taking place.   
Key reforms on competitiveness and growth supported by this PRSC include: (i) a new tariff code 
consistent with the World Trade Organization agreement to increase Cape Verde’s integration to the 
world economy; (ii) an across the board reduction in tax rates for businesses to improve the business 
environment; (iii) the ministerial decision to re-activate and improve the Training Support Fund (TSF) to 
strengthen the qualifications of the workforce; and (iv) a medium term strategy for energy to restore the 
financial viability of the sector and increase generation capacity (including renewable energy).  Prior 
actions to promote good governance are: (i) the satisfactory progress in the implementation of the plan 
for the clearance of domestic arrears to reduce the central government stock of debt (and promote 
macroeconomic stability); (ii) the promulgation of new regulations accompanying the new Public 
Procurement Law to improve the transparency and efficiency of public procurement processes; (iii) the 
promulgation of the new statistical law to establish a new national statistical system; and (iv) the 
integration of 2008 projects and programs output indicators to the national M&E system to aid the 
implementation of this national M&E system among others.  (For a complete list of prior actions to 
promote good governance and competitiveness and growth please see Concept Note).   
Pursuing the approach of the four previous PRSCs, this operation is being prepared in close coordination 
with other budget support partners, following a Memorandum of Understanding signed with the 
Government.  The design of the proposed PRSC-5, embedded in a three-year matrix agreed with the 
authorities and donors, was prepared in consultation with various stakeholders under the Government’s 
leadership.  This consultative and harmonized approach minimizes the burden on the limited 
Government capacity and ensures Government ownership of the supported reforms. 
Page  4
PRSC-5 will provide US$ 10 million to the 2009 state budget of about US$712 million.
1
PRSC-5 
financing is equivalent to 17.7 percent of the proposed GPRSP expenditures in the two pillars of PRSC 
focus (Pillar I and III) in 2009, or about 9.1 percent of the overall budget financing requirements. In 
addition, it is expected that the PRSC will leverage substantial resources from other donors. There is no 
earmarking of activities to be financed, giving the Government’s flexibility in orienting resources in line 
with GPRSP priorities.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
IDA has determined that the specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC-5 are not expected to 
have a significant effect on Cape Verde’s environment and natural resources due to the nature of the areas 
of focus of the operation.  More specifically, none of the prior actions is expected to impact negatively on 
Cape Verde’s environment and natural resources.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jose Guilherme Reis 
Title: Lead Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-8835 
Fax:  
Email: jreis@worldbank.org 
 
wb91459 
P:\!UNITS\Aftpf_ps\CAPE VERDE\DPL_PRSC5\Concept Stage\PID Concept Stage.doc 
05/19/2009 12:02:00 PM
1
Draft Law of the Budget submitted to Parliament in October 2008. 
Page  5
