                                                Document of
                                               The World Bank


                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                       Report No. 51426-CV




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                        PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                                      FOR

              A PROPOSED FIFTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.5 MILLION
                                  (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE




                                             November 20, 2009




Finance and Private Sector Development
Western and Central Africa
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 5, 2009)

                Currency Unit            Escudo
                  US$1.00              74.65 CVE

                 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                           Metric System

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31


              ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AFTFP       Africa Finance and Private Sector Unit
ARAP        Agencia Reguladora para Aquisições Públicas (Regulation
            Entity for Public Acquisitions)
ARE         Agencia de Regulação Económica (Economic Regulatory
            Agency)
BCV         Banco de Cabo Verde (Central Bank of Cape Verde)
CAN         Conselho Nacional do Ambiente (Environment National
            Council)
CIAP        Comissão Independente para Aquisições Públicas
            (Independent Commission for Public Procurement)
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
CPIP        Country Procurement Issues Paper
DB          Doing Business
DGPOG       Direcção Geral de Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
            (Directorate for Planning Budget and Management)
DTIS        Diagnostic Trade Integration Study
ELECTRA     Empresa de Electricidade e Água (Public Water and Electricity
            Company)
ENAPOR      Empresa Nacional de Administração dos Portos (Ports
            Authority)
EROT        Esquema Regional de Ordenamento do Território (Island
            Development Plan)
ETS         Economic Transformation Strategy
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment
FSAP        Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
GOCV        Government of Cape Verde
GPRSP       Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
                                                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


      IBRD                    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
      ICA                     Investment Climate Assessment
      ICR                     Implementation Completion Report
      IDA                     International Development Association
      IFC                     International Finance Corporation
      IFRS                    International Financial Reporting Standards
      IGF                     Inspeção Geral de Finanças (General Inspectorate of Finances)
      IMF                     International Monetary Fund
      INE                     Instituto Nacional de Estatística (National Statistics Institute)
      JSAN                    Joint Staff Advisory Note
      LDP                     Letter of Development Policy
      M&E                     Monitoring and Evaluation
      MDG                     Millennium Development Goal
      MECC                    Ministério de Economia, Competitividade e Crescimento
                              (Ministry of Economy, Competitiveness, and Growth)
      MIC                     Middle Income Country
      MIGA                    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
      MF                      Ministério de Finanças (Ministry of Finance)
      MOU                     Memorandum of Unterstanding
      MTEF                    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
      MTFF                    Medium-Term Fiscal Framework
      NGO                     Non Governmental Organization
      NOSI                    Núcleo Operacional ad Sociedade da Informação (Operational
                              Nucleus for Information Society)
      OECD-DAC                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ­
                              Development Assistance Committee
      OPES                    Órgãos Produtores de Estatísticas Setoriais (Sectoral
                              Producers of Statistics)
      PANA                    Programa de Acção Nacional para o Ambiente (National
                              Environmental Action Plan)
      PCCS                    Plano de Cargos, Carreiras e Salários (Career and Salary
                              Plan)
      PDM                     Plano de Desenvolvimento Municipal (Municipal Development
                              Plan)
      PEFA                    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
      PER                     Public Expenditure Review
      PFM                     Public Financial Management
      PHRD                    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
      PRSC V                  Fifth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
      PSI                     Policy Support Instrument
      REER                    Real Effective Exchange Rate
      QUIBB                   Questionário Unificado de Indicadores Básicos de Bem-Estar
                              (Unified Questionnaire of Basic Wellbeing Indicators)



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.
RBM     Results-Based Management
SDR     Special Drawing Right
SIGOF   Sistema Integrado de Gestão Orçamental eFinanceira
        (Integrated Financial Management System for the State
        Budget)
SIM     Sistema de Informação Municipal (Municipal Information
        System)
SME     Small and Medium Enterprise
SSQA    Environmental Quality Monitoring System
TA      Technical Assistance
TACV    Transportes Aéreos de Cabo Verde (Cabo Verde Airlines)
TdC     Tribunal de Contas (Court of Auditors)
TSF     Training Support Fund
TVET    Technical, Vocational and Educational Training
UGA     Unidade de Gestão de Aquisições Procurement Management
        Unit
UCRE    Unidade de Coordenação e Reforma do Estado (State Reform
        Coordination Unit)
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
VAT     Value Added Tax
WTO     World Trade Organization




            Vice President:   Obiageli Ezekwesili
         Country Director:    Habib Fetini
           Sector Director:   Marilou Uy
          Sector Manager:     Iradj Alikhani
        Task Team Leader:     Jose G. Reis
                                                               CAPE VERDE

                            FIFTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS

CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ..................................................................................................... i

I.         INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................ 1

II.        COUNTRY CONTEXT ................................................................................................................... 1
                A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN CAPE VERDE ............................... 1
                B. PROGRESS WITH POVERTY REDUCTION AND ACHIEVEMENT OF MDGS 4
                C. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY...................... 4
                D. FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK .................................................................................... 6

III.       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESS ............................ 7

IV.        BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM ..................................................... 9
                 A.  LINK TO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY .............................................. 9
                 B. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ............................. 10
                 C. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS.............................. 10
                 D. LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................................................... 11
                 E. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS ......................................................................... 12

V.         THE PROPOSED PRSC V.............................................................................................................. 15
                 A. RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES ........................................................................... 15
                 B. POLICY AREAS ........................................................................................................ 18

VI.        OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................................................. 32
                A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS....................................................................... 32
                B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS................................................................................ 33
                C.   IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION................................ 34
                D. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS ............................................................................................ 35
                E.  DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING........................................................................ 35
                F.  RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ............................................................................ 36

List of Tables:
Table 1: Basic Macroeconomic Indicators (2005-2012) ............................................................................... 5

Table 2: Financing requirements 2009-11 ................................................................................................... 7

Table 3: Recent Relevant Analytical Work ................................................................................................. 14

Table 4: Doing Business Rankings for Cape Verde ­ 2009-10 .................................................................. 17

Table 5: Summary of PRSC V Prior Actions .............................................................................................. 29

Table 6: Proposed Triggers for PRSC VI and Indicative triggers for PRSC VII ..................................... 30
List of Boxes:
Box 1. The Economic Transformation Strategy ........................................................................................... 8

Box 2: Good Practice Principles for Conditionality.................................................................................... 31


ANNEXES

ANNEX 1: Letter of Development Policy ....................................................................................................... 38

ANNEX 2A: New PRSC Series Program Matrix ............................................................................................. 44

ANNEX 2B: Joint General Budget Support Matrix for the Government of Cape Verde ................................. 51

ANNEX 3: Fund Relations Note ...................................................................................................................... 64

ANNEX 4: Country at a glance ....................................................................................................................... 67




The Credit was prepared by an IDA team consisting of J.G. Reis (PRMTR, Task Team Leader - TTL), O. Lambert (MIGA,
TTL until March 2009), A. Gonzalez, J.C. Ngo, H. Sidatt, I. Chacon, A. Vasquez-Sanchez , D. Judkins (AFTFW), M.
Francisco, C. de Sousa (AFTP4), C. Coste S. Diop, (AFTFM), M. Diarrassouba, H. Grandvoinne, E. Larbi (AFTPR), E.
Yoboue (AFTPC), G. Delaine (AFTRL), G. Martins (AFTED), L. Meza-Bartina (LEGAF), D. Junquiera, W. Chadab
(CTRFC), Q. Wodon (HDNED), S. Jocktane (AFMGA), T. Faller (LCSPF) and P. Granata (AFTFP). Peers reviewers are C.
Laurent (MNSED), E. Manes (SASFP) and J. Morisset (AFTP1).
                          CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY


                                      CAPE VERDE

            FIFTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC V)


Recipient                 The Republic of Cape Verde
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Financing Data            IDA Credit, SDR 9.5 million (US$15 million equivalent)
                          Standard IDA terms: 35 years maturity with 10 years grace
                          period
Operation Type            Single Tranche Operation of SDR 9.5 million
                          (US$15 million equivalent). First of a new series of 3
                          operations.
Main Policy Areas         The proposed operation will have two main policy areas: (i)
                          good governance; and (ii) competitiveness and growth. Good
                          governance, broadly defined, includes fiscal policy, public
                          financial management (PFM), procurement, monitoring and
                          evaluation (M&E), statistics and state modernization.
                          Competitiveness constitutes the main multi-sector anchor for
                          the proposed operation and includes human capital, trade,
                          tourism, financial services, tax, land management and energy
                          issues.
Key Outcome                  ·   Amount of Government arrears towards its suppliers,
Indicators                       agencies and municipalities reduced to zero.
                             ·   Proportion of non complying sole source contracts
                                 reduced to zero.
                             ·   Weighted average (by assets) of capital adequacy ratio
                                 increased above 11 percent.
                             ·   Debt service coverage ratio of ELECTRA increased
                                 above 1.
                             ·   Number of days to open a business reduced to 24.

Program Development       The objective is to support policies and institutions aimed at
Objective(s) and          developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of
Contribution to Country   sustainable growth and poverty reduction, reinforcing the
Partnership Strategy      competitive advantage of Cape Verde's service sector. This
                          includes support to the development of human resource
                          capacity and skills for both, public and private sectors; the
                          strengthening of land management; and the development of an
                          appropriate enabling environment to attract and retain capital,
                          as well as the promotion of good governance through public
                          expenditure management reforms, civil service reform and

                                              i
                 decentralization, and improvement in statistics and the
                 monitoring and evaluation system. PRSC V is a key tool to
                 support the three strategic objectives of the recently approved
                 CPS. This includes providing support for reforms to: (i)
                 promote good governance and public sector capacity; (ii)
                 improve competitiveness and the investment climate, and (iii)
                 strengthen human capital.

Benefits         Expected benefits of the measures supported by PRSC V
                 include: (i) improvement of the investment climate through
                 lower taxes, the reduction of regulatory burden (e.g. to start a
                 business) and better vocational training (adapted to employer
                 needs); (ii) increased integration with international markets
                 through investment and trade rules compatible with
                 international markets; (iii) reduction and control of
                 government liabilities to preserve macroeconomic stability;
                 (iv) strengthening of PFM and M&E to enhance efficiency and
                 transparency in the use of public resources; and (v)
                 modernization of Government to improve its functioning and
                 service delivery. Due to the nature of the instrument, the
                 PRSC is also expected to reduce transaction costs and
                 distortions associated with project financing.
Risks and Risk   (a) Capacity. Budget support is an instrument that requires
Mitigation           capacity to design and implement reforms and monitor
                     their impacts. The limited number of technical staff and
                     the high turnover of senior staff in several core ministries
                     pose problems. PRSC V mitigates this risk by supporting
                     reforms to strengthen statistics, M&E and state
                     modernization;
                 (b) Fiscal risks. Despite the progress in fiscal policy in
                     recent years, accumulation of contingent liabilities in
                     public or semi-public companies is still a concern. The
                     Public Water and Electricity Company, ELECTRA, is
                     still a concern and is the major source of fiscal risks. The
                     PRSC series will remain the main instrument that
                     supports the dialogue on fiscal risks. PRSC V mitigates
                     this risk by supporting the articulation of a time-bound
                     action plan to reduce ELECTRA's arrears. Additionally,
                     an upcoming energy project will focus on the financial
                     sustainability of the sector;
                 (c) Impact of global crisis and upcoming elections. Budget
                     deficit projections for 2009 have increased, given the
                     deterioration in revenue performance and increased
                     capital expenditures. The projected fiscal deficit for 2010
                     is well above the historical levels. An analysis of the
                     sustainability of the debt shows that while debt ratios to
                     exports will remain low thanks to the long maturities and

                                     ii
                   high service exports, borrowing needs to decelerate after
                   2011 to keep the risk of debt distress low. The
                   Presidential elections pose an additional set of risks, as
                   the fiscal situation requires careful management. Cape
                   Verde is moderately exposed to the effects of the current
                   financial crisis, but given the high degree of integration
                   of the Cape Verdean economy with the rest of the world,
                   especially with the Euro area, it is inevitable to be hit by
                   the adverse shocks.        Nevertheless, the country is
                   relatively well prepared to deal with the crisis as it has
                   built some fiscal space in recent years and has more
                   institutional capacity than most African nations.
                   Mitigation of risks of fiscal slippage with the elections
                   will require continuous fiscal discipline. The increased
                   transparency associated with PFM reforms supported by
                   the PRSC program, including previous operations and the
                   current series will help mitigate fiscal risks;
               (d) Slowing reform program. While Cape Verde has made
                   steady progress in reforms, experience elsewhere shows
                   that the pace of reforms to the business environment is
                   not uniform, being often affected by economic and
                   political cycles. Thus, the possibility of a slowdown in
                   the development of a more encouraging investment
                   climate in Cape Verde cannot be ruled out given that the
                   country will keep facing the impact of the global crisis,
                   and there will be elections in early 2011. The risk of a
                   slowing reform program is mitigated by the commitment
                   shown by the Government so far to these reforms, the
                   broad support that they have in the political spectrum and
                   the key role they play to accelerate and sustain economic
                   growth.

Operation ID   P113306




                                   iii
                             THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                   FIFTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT


                                      I.    INTRODUCTION

1.      The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC V) is the first operation of a
new series of three one-year operations to support the implementation of the Government's
Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, as presented in the Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper II (GPRSP-II). The new series will support policies and institutions aimed at
developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of sustainable growth and poverty
reduction. In so doing, it will selectively support the Government's efforts in the five pillars of
the GPRSP-II: government reform, human resources, competitiveness, economic infrastructure
and social cohesion. The proposed operation will have two main policy areas: (i) good
governance; and (ii) competitiveness and growth. Good governance, broadly defined, includes
fiscal policy, public financial management (PFM), procurement, monitoring and evaluation
(M&E), statistics and state modernization. Competitiveness constitutes the main multi-sector
anchor for the proposed operation and includes human capital, trade, tourism, financial
services, tax, land management and energy issues.

2.       The proposed operation builds on the results achieved under PRSC I through IV, which
supported policies and reforms in the health and education sectors that achieved sustained
improvements in the well-being of the population. This new series marks a shift of Bank
support from the health and education sectors towards growth and competitiveness. This shift
reflects the new priorities of the Government's growth and poverty reduction strategy as well as
the positive results obtained in the health and education sectors after a five-year period of
sustained Bank involvement.

3.       Pursuing the approach of the four previous PRSCs, this operation is being prepared in
close coordination with other budget support partners, following a Memorandum of
Understanding signed with the Government. The design of the proposed PRSC V, embedded
in a three-year matrix agreed with the authorities and donors, was prepared in consultation with
various stakeholders under the Government's leadership. This consultative and harmonized
approach minimizes the burden on the limited Government capacity and ensures Government
ownership of the supported reforms.


                                II.        COUNTRY CONTEXT


A.     RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN CAPE VERDE

4.      The adoption of sound macroeconomic policies in recent years has helped the country
to mitigate and smooth the impact of the global economic crisis. Nonetheless, due to the high
degree of integration of the Cape Verdean economy with the rest of the world, especially with
the Euro area, growth is expected to decelerate as a result of a decline in external inflows and
external demand. After averaging 7.1 percent during the last five years and reaching nearly 6

                                                1
percent in 2008, real GDP growth is expected to decline to 4.1 percent in 2009. Growth has
been driven by: (i) strong public and private investment, with significant participation of
foreign direct investment (FDI), directed largely towards the development infrastructure and
tourism; and (ii) exports, especially tourism.

5.        The global crisis has had a negative effect on FDI, private consumption and external
demand in Cape Verde but remittances have increased. With the global financial crisis and the
consequent tightening of credit in country origins of FDI (especially in the Euro Zone), FDI
declined 54 percent in the first semester of 2009,1 compared to the first semester of 2008,
reducing private investment.2 The global economic slowdown has also affected private
consumption and external demand, especially tourism. The economic confidence barometer
illustrates the weakening in economic activity,3 especially in the tourism and construction
sectors, which are key in the economy of Cape Verde.4 While tourism grew 7.8 percent in
2008, it declined by approximately 33 percent in the first semester of 2009 compared to the
first semester of 2008, as a result of the recession in the Euro area (home of the large majority
of tourists to Cape Verde).5 In contrast, remittances are upholding against initial projections,
growing by 3 percent in 2008 and increasing by 7 percent in the first semester of 2009
compared to the first semester of 2008. The maintenance of a bold program of public
investments is expected to be the main driver of growth in 2009.

6.       Inflation has remained at low levels in recent years. Inflation increased in 2008,
reaching 6.8 percent, up 2.4 percentage points from 2007. This was mainly driven by food and
fuel prices and a one-off increase in prices of clothing and shoes.6 The increase in 2008 has
been followed by a deceleration in the pressure in international prices at the end of 2008 and in
2009, which has led to a decline in domestic prices (notably food and petroleum prices). As a
result, inflation rate is expected to decline to 1.4 percent in 2009.

7.       Monetary policy has focused over the past years on strengthening the sustainability of
the exchange rate peg to the Euro by building up reserves and ensuring price stability. Gross
international reserves corresponded to 4.0 months of prospective imports in 2007 compared to
3.1 months at end 2006. Net international reserves declined during March-September 2008,
reflecting capital account developments resulting from the temporary misalignment of the
domestic interest rates with rates in the Euro area and the country's risk premium.7
Nonetheless, after the increase in policy interest rates in September and October of 2008,
international reserves showed sustained recovery, with gross international reserves reaching 4.3
months of prospective imports by end 2008. International reserves are expected to decline and
are projected to stand at 3.9 months of prospective imports by end 2009 given the decline in
tourism and FDI. The magnitude of the decline will depend on whether domestic or external

1
   Central Bank data.
2
  FDI increased 13 percent in the second quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2009.
3
   The barometer registered a variation of -1.1 percent in the first trimester of 2009 compared to 1.0 percent in the
same period in 2008. Source: National Statistics Institute (INE).
4
  Tourism represented 20.4 percent of GDP in 2007 and construction is the largest employer sector according to
QUIBB 2007.
5
  Data source: Central Bank.
6
  Inflation in Cape Verde is mainly supply driven and a large component is imported inflation.
7
  This occurred when interbank rates in the Euro Zone spiked with the global credit freeze that started in the spring
2008.

                                                         2
resources will finance the remaining financing needs in 2009. The decline in reserves is,
however, less than proportional to the decline in these inflows as their decline contributes to a
reduction in imports given their high import component. Furthermore, the exchange rate peg to
the euro is credible and has served Cape Verde well as an anchor for financial stability. The
parity has never been realigned, the real effective exchange rate (REER) is broadly in line with
the fundamentals and the level of reserves is deemed appropriate. In addition, Cape Verde has
a credit line of Euro 49 million with the Portuguese Treasury to support the peg.

8.       Fiscal policy has continued to be consistent with macroeconomic stability but the fiscal
deficit is expected to increase in 2009. Strong fiscal discipline and good revenue performance
have contributed to moderate fiscal deficits in the past. The fiscal deficit was 1.2 percent and
0.7 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2008 and 2007 respectively. In 2009, however,
fiscal deficit is expected to be well above historical levels. While the 2009 budget law
projected a deficit of 5.5 percent, lower-than-expected revenues and increase in the public
infrastructure projects envelope has increased deficit projections to 8.8 percent. Revenues
performance has deteriorated in 2009 compared to 2008 - from January to August revenues
were 7 percent lower than those in the equivalent period in 2008.8 Overall, it is expected that
fiscal revenues will be 9 percent below the projected revenues in the 2009 budget law, as a
result of the economic slowdown and the decline in land sales revenues. On the other hand,
capital expenditures have increased considerably. Capital expenditures are expected to be 18.1
percent above the 2009 budget law and 50 percent above the level of 2008.9 The financing gap
is financed largely with external resources ­ about 80 percent, largely on concessional terms.
Crowding-in effects are expected to be limited due to the lack of backward linkages and high
degree of openness in the economy.

9.       Despite the good fiscal performance, fiscal risks associated with contingent liabilities
persist, most notably from the public water and electricity company, ELECTRA. The company
is in a critical financial situation due to lack of investments, past tariff setting below costs and
difficulties with billing collection. As of April 2009, the outstanding debt from municipalities
and autonomous services corresponded to US$2.4 million, and the outstanding debt related to
public illumination was US$5.6 million.10 As a result, the company is de-capitalized and lacks
credit from the main suppliers, the oil companies. With regard to the risks for the budget, the
explicit risks correspond to guarantees issued in favor of ELECTRA, of approximately 4.5
percent of GDP at the end of 2008.11

10.     In July 2006, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved the request of the
Government for a three-year Policy Support Instrument (PSI), designed to support the
Government's economic objectives and policy framework during 2006-2009. This program
focuses on measures to reduce macroeconomic risks, provide a margin of safety against
exogenous shocks and address the prospects of a longer-term decline in highly concessional
external support. In the context of the PSI, the authorities have prepared a consolidated balance
sheet of the five state-owned enterprises and a report on contingent liabilities assessing
potential risks, including those risks arising from state-owned enterprises to submit to the
8
  Quarter data on budget execution is provided by the Ministry of Finance.
9
  Current expenditures are expected to decline by 3.4 percent.
10
   An agreement is still pending regarding the payment of public electricity.
11
   The implicit fiscal risks have been assessed by the Government, especially the amounts needed to recapitalize
the company.

                                                        3
Council of Ministers. The IMF's sixth PSI review was successfully completed in June 2009 and
a one-year extension of the program was approved.

B.      PROGRESS WITH POVERTY REDUCTION AND ACHIEVEMENT OF MDGS

11.      Thanks to rapid growth, the poverty estimates suggest that the share of the population
living in poverty was reduced from 49 percent in 1988-89 to 37 percent in 2001-02 and 27
percent in 2007 (a reduction of more than 22 points and almost half the initial level).12 Other
social indicators, such as access to potable water and electricity and usage of modern toilets,
sanitation and solid waste management have also improved. However, inequality remains high.
In 2001, the Gini coefficient stood at a height of 0.525 compared to 0.361 for Mali, 0.342 for
Senegal, 0.404 for Cameroon. This high inequality and the fact that poverty reduction has been
slower in the poorest areas of the country suggest that the Government should aim to enhance
pro-poor policies in order to help the poor benefit as much as they can from growth.

12.     Cape Verde is on track for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and has already
reached some of them. GPRSP-II reports that Cape Verde is on track to meet the MDG of
halving extreme poverty by 2015, assuming that the annual growth rate will be at least 5
percent on average. Since the inception of GPRSP-I, robust economic growth, underpinned by
good reform and social policies, has contributed to poverty reduction. Advancements have also
been made in health and education. Universal primary education at the national level is close
to being achieved and has already been attained at some islands. Under-five children mortality
rate has decreased in a sustained manner in the last decades in Cape Verde, decreasing from 39
deaths per 1,000 live births in 2000 to 26 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2007. Additionally,
Cape Verde became a special partner of the European Union in October 2007, was invited to
join the World Trade Organization in December 2007, and graduated to the United Nations'
category of medium-developed country in January 2008.

C.      MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

13.     Cape Verde's strong track record of macroeconomic management could help mitigate
the effects of the current global economic crisis. Overall, the macroeconomic policy
framework is adequate. The country has built fiscal space and international reserves over the
years and both of them can help manage external shocks. In addition, the medium-term reform
program targets a number of macro-critical actions in trade, tourism, financial services, tax,
land management and energy that would reduce fiscal risks and support accelerated growth.

14.     Growth is projected to recover timidly in 2010, to 5 percent and then to 5.5 percent and
7 percent in 2011 and 2012, respectively. These projections are below the medium-term trend
observed in the recent past and the GPRSP-II projections. Furthermore, the medium-term
outlook is subject to a number of downside risks. The fiscal position can be undermined if the
financial situation of ELECTRA does not improve and the large public investment programs
are poorly managed or unsustainable in the long run. In addition, the economy remains
vulnerable to the global economic slowdown that may further impact the tourism and
construction sectors in the future. Inflation is projected to stay at 1.4 percent in 2010 and

12
  Other poverty measures such as the poverty gap (which takes into account the distance separating the poor from
the poverty line) and the squared poverty gap (which takes into account the inequality among the poor) also
decreased dramatically, as presented in Cape Verde Poverty Update (2009).
                                                       4
increase slightly in 2011 reaching 2.0 percent. The projected trend in inflation reflects the
anticipated decline in commodity prices and the related easing of inflationary pressures. The
fixed exchange rate with respect to the Euro will continue to provide a solid anchor for low
inflation expectations.

                         Table 1: Basic Macroeconomic Indicators (2005-2012)
     Indicator                                     2005    2006   2007   20081   20092   20102   20112   20122
     Real GDP growth (annual percentage change)     6.5    10.8    7.8    5.9     4.1    5.0     5.5     7.0
     Real GDP per capita growth (annual
                                                    4.6     8.8    6.4    3.4     2.1    3.0     3.5     5.0
     percentage change)
     Overall fiscal balance, including grants
                                                    -6.3   -5.0   -0.7   -1.2    -8.8    -9.9    -10.0   -6.0
     (percentage of GDP)
     Current account balance, including official
                                                    -3.4   -5.0   -8.7   -12.4   -19.5   -22.9   -22.3   -15.7
     transfers (percentage of GDP)
     Reserve coverage (months of prospective
                                                    2.8     3.1    4.0    4.3     3.9    3.8     4.0     3.7
     imports of goods and services)
     CPI annual average (annual percentage
                                                    0.4     4.8    4.4    6.8     1.4    1.4     2.0     2.0
     change)
     Total Central Government debt                  87.1   73.4   59.7   57.4    60.5    69.3    76.5    75.5

 1
   Preliminary; 2Projections
 Source: IMF, Ministry of Finance and Staff estimates


15.     The current account deficit (including official transfers) is expected to widen as a result
of the slowdown in tourism receipts. The current account deficit (including official transfers)
deteriorated from 8.7 percent of GDP in 2007 to 12.4 percent of GDP in 2008 and is projected
to deteriorate further (to 19.5 percent of GDP in 2009). Projections indicate that the current
account deficit (including official transfers) will continue deteriorating in 2010 and 2011 to
22.9 and 22.3 percent of GDP, respectively. As the economy recovers, imports of investment
goods are expected to increase. Also, as economic conditions improve in Europe, tourism
receipts are expected to grow and remittances are expected to remain strong. Notwithstanding
the larger current account deficit, international reserves are projected to remain above three
months of imports.

16.      It is expected that the fiscal deficit will widen as a result of a significant increase in
capital expenditures not matched by an increase in revenues. The overall budget deficit
(including grants) is projected to increase to 9.9 percent in 2010 and to 10 percent in 2011. It is,
however, expected that spending will decline after 2011, as a percentage of GDP, as major
infrastructure investments are completed and reforms in the policy framework open more space
for private participation (as a result fiscal deficit is expected to decline in 2012 to 6 percent of
GDP). The increase in capital expenditure does not pose a threat to the exchange rate peg but
it will raise external debt values and reduce the ability to use fiscal policy as an exchange rate
absorber in the event of an external shock. According to the Government, the medium-term
fiscal program is appropriate as the spending expansion is directed to infrastructure, and the
deficit is mostly financed by concessional loans. Revenues are expected to increase as the
economy recovers, and improvements in tax administration are consolidating. Improvements
in public expenditure management will also contribute to further control expenditures.

17.     As a result of the increase in capital expenditures, total government debt started to
increase in 2009. The share of total central government net debt and guarantees to GDP started
to decline in 2005 and declined sharply until 2008 (it fell to 57.4 percent of GDP in 2008, down

                                                           5
from 73.4 percent in 2006, owing to the rapid GDP growth and prudent fiscal stance).
However, it is expected to increase to 60.5 percent in 2009, and 69.3 percent and 76.5 percent
in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The domestic debt­to-GDP ratio was reduced from 18.9
percent in 2007 to 15.8 percent in 2008 and expected to continue declining. An analysis of the
sustainability of Cape Verde's public debt recently carried out indicate that the risk of debt
distress in Cape Verde remains low, but there are risks to the debt outlook that warrant
vigilance and that deceleration of borrowing after 2011 will be critical to keep risks of debt
distress low.

18.     The medium-term effects of the rapidly changing external environment on Cape
Verde's economy are difficult to gauge. Preliminary sensitivity analysis shows that a decline in
tourism inflows equivalent to 1 percent of GDP would result in a decline in GDP of 0.7-1.0
percentage points. The impact on fiscal balance and current account are estimated to be more
modest, at approximately 0.1-0.2 percent of GDP. Due to partial self-stabilization, the impact
on the balance of payments would be between 0.1-0.4 percent of GDP. Similar results are
obtained when simulating the impact of an adverse shock equivalent to 1 percent of GDP on
FDI or remittances. An increase in oil prices of US$10 per barrel (from US$61/bbl) would
reduce the growth rate by 0.1-0.2 percentage point and would deteriorate external balances by
about 0.3 percent of GDP, but the fiscal impact would be negligible.

D.     FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK

19.             The proposed PRSC V will provide US$15 million equivalent to the 2009 state
budget of about US$712 million. The proposed size of the credit has been increased from US$
10 million to US$ 15 million to respond to the request of the Government of Cape Verde for
additional financial support from IDA to help fund the financial gap in the 2009 budget, which
is associated with the global economic crisis. PRSC V financing is equivalent to 26.6 percent
of the proposed GPRSP expenditures in the two pillars of PRSC focus (Pillar I and III) in 2009.
In addition, it is expected that the PRSC series will leverage substantial resources from other
donors. There is no earmarking of activities to be financed, giving the Government's flexibility
in orienting resources in line with GPRSP priorities.




                                               6
                              Table 2: Financing requirements 2009-11
                                                                                 2009        2010        2011
                                                                                Budget       Proj.       Proj.

 Overall balance including grants                                                -5.4         -9.9       -10.0
 Financing                                                                       5.4          -9.9       -10.0
   Foreign (net)                                                                 4.6          11.0       10.6
   PRSC5 (% of total financing)                                                  13.9
   Domestic net                                                                  0.8          -1.1       -0.6
 Financing gap                                                                    0            0          0

 Pillar I, III and land use component of Pillar IV as % of GDP                    2.8         2.4         2.1
    PRSC5 (% of Pillar I, III and land use planning component of Pillar IV)       26.5

   Memo item:
   GDP at current market prices (billion LCU)                                     140        148.2      158.5
% of GDP, unless otherwise indicated



     III.    THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESS

20.     The Government's program is articulated in GPRSP-II, which covers the period 2008-
2011 and was the result of extensive consultations among relevant stakeholders. GPRSP-II was
completed in May 2008 and discussed at the World Bank Board on July 8, 2008. It builds on
important strategic documents like the Government Program, the Great Options of the Plan and
the Economic Transformation Strategy (ETS), which were extensively debated in Parliament
and validated in 2003. The Joint Staff Advisory Note on Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper II (2008-11) that accompanied GPRSP-II highlighted its inclusive preparation
process. GPRSP-II was prepared by the Technical Secretariat for Development Assistance, at
the Ministry of Finance, which worked in close coordination with line ministries. This has
resulted in a strong ownership of the strategy by the Government. Furthermore, a
communication strategy was developed and consultations were held in municipalities, civil
societies and the private sectors in Santiago, São Vicente and Sal Islands.13

21.     GPRSP-II maintains the thrust of the earlier GPRSP while putting greater emphasis on
private sector development and infrastructure to support growth and reduce poverty. It builds
on GPRSP-I and increases the emphasis on the Government's ETS. Starting from the premise
that poverty cannot be reduced without a robust broad-based growth agenda, the ETS focuses
on ensuring consistent growth by expanding and diversifying the nation's productive base and
deepening reforms and investments to build a more competitive economy. The ETS
emphasizes building private sector capacity (including investing in small and medium
enterprises) and developing four sectors, or niches: (i) promoting high value-added tourism; (ii)

13
  The process of consensus building and data/information gathering included working sessions between: (i) the
Minister of Finance and Public Administration and staff in Government and ministerial staff responsible for
planning and management, and (ii) the Technical Secretariat for Development Support with Government
departments (in particular for defining the logical framework, budgeting, and indicators) as well as with municipal
chambers, civil society and the private sector.
                                                         7
developing fisheries processing and exports; (iii) creating a transportation hub (passenger and
cargo); and (iv) producing offshore services (information atechnology outsourcing and
financial services).


                        Box 1. The Economic Transformation Strategy
The realization that the past development model or "business as usual" policies were no longer
appropriate for the future, led the Government to embark on a series of strategic national reflections and
dialogues on transformation in 2001. The aim was to devise a strategy to create a self-sustaining high-
growth economy with an expanded base of production for accelerated growth rates that would
significantly reduce poverty and inequality and create more jobs.
The key elements of the transformation strategy focused on building upon Cape Verde's location to
explore natural competitive advantages while using textiles and tourism as a bridge in the near term.
The comparative advantages include: (i) its location as a gateway to Africa; (ii) the sea as a hub for
transshipments, the marine resources and fisheries; (iii) the climate for tourism; (iv) `air space' with air
cargo, passenger transportation, duty-free shopping and air traffic control; (v) its good governance for
investment climate; (vi) its strategic partners for market access and trade relations; and (vii) its
relatively skilled human resources for use in high-tech, high-end services.
The transformation strategy envisages development of several industry clusters around the sea,
including processing and marketing of marine resources for export in the sub-region, as well as having
Cape Verde serve as a trans-shipment port. The strategy also proposes the development of an offshore
services industry to support the above-mentioned programs and to provide support services such as
finance, investment and insurance to the Lusophone and African markets.
Maximizing these advantages will require: (i) massive efficient investments in infrastructure
development to attract investors, particularly to tourism; (ii) non-traditional sources of financing and
increased private sector development; and (iii) building human resources capacities and skills
(specialized and high tech) to fully develop an information and services economy.


22.    GPRSP-II has three main goals and five strategic pillars. The overarching objectives of
GPRSP-II are to reduce unemployment to below 10 percent, maintain an accelerated real
economic growth rate above 10 percent and cut poverty by half. The four-year strategy
maintains the thrust of the GPRSP-I and broadly covers the same five strategic pillars:

    ¾ Pillar 1: Promote Government Reform. The objective is to modernize the public
      administration, design and implement better management practices in public finances
      and human resources - including simplifying administrative procedures and structures,
      legal and judicial reform, expanding the use of information technology, and further
      decentralizing resources and responsibilities to municipalities. The Government also
      seeks to further improve spending allocations in line with GPRSP-II priorities.
    ¾ Pillar 2: Develop Human Resources. The objective is to create a more competitive
      human resource base, with advanced levels of scientific, technical and technological
      knowledge and the skills required for the services industries, to increase employment,
      including for youth, and strengthen Cape Verde's competitive advantage at a global
      level.
    ¾ Pillar 3: Competitiveness - Meet the Challenges of Sustainable Development and
      Globalization. The objective is to pursue reforms and investments that: (i) ensure
      macroeconomic stability, as the fundamental condition and prerequisite for sustainable
                                                     8
        competitiveness, growth and development in the country; and (ii) strengthen
        productivity, quality of services, opportunities for employment and the business
        environment.
     ¾ Pillar 4: Improve the Country's Economic Infrastructure. The objective is to
       increase investments in infrastructure to meet the daily needs of its citizens, to
       overcome infrastructure bottlenecks, and to keep pace with the fast growing tourism
       industry. A central objective of the GPRSP-II is to develop a modern and efficient
       energy sector capable of supplying the power needed for growth, competitiveness and
       welfare improvements.
     ¾ Pillar 5: Strengthen Social Cohesion. The aim is to substantially reduce poverty by:
       (i) improving access to microcredit, labor conditions and the social protection system;
       (ii) reducing unemployment; (iii) strengthening food security; (iv) ensuring better health
       services for all; (v) supporting youth development and integration into the economy;
       and (vi) promoting the gender dimension.


             IV.    BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM


A.       LINK TO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY

23.     Cape Verde's CPS provides a framework for the World Bank Group's selective support
of the implementation of GPRSP-II. The main thrust of the CPS is to help the Government
sustain high levels of growth and reduce inequalities by promoting good governance,
competitiveness and strengthening social cohesion. More specifically, the CPS is articulated
around three strategic objectives: (i) promoting good governance and public sector capacity; (ii)
improving competitiveness and the investment climate for private sector-led growth; and (iii)
strengthening human capital and social cohesion. The CPS program will be implemented with:
(i) financial resources from the International Development Association (IDA) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and trust funds; and (ii) non-
financial support through analytical and advisory services, technical assistance (TA), policy
dialogue and project supervision.

24.      The CPS specifies how the new PRSC series will contribute to each of its three strategic
priorities. The IDA PRSC series will continue to be the main instruments for supporting
reforms in public financial management, strengthening public administration and the business
environment. The budget support program will increasingly focus on reforms to strengthen
private sector development to boost competitiveness, reflecting the new priorities of the
Government and, therefore, those of the World Bank (as reflected in GPRSP-II and the CPS).

25.     PRSC V is a key tool to support the three strategic objectives of the recently approved
CPS. This includes providing support for reforms to: (i) promote good governance and public
sector capacity (e.g. reforms to reduce the central government stock of debt, improve public
procurement processes and strengthen decentralization); (ii) improve competitiveness and the
investment climate (e.g. reforms to increase the integration with the world economy, improve
land use, increase energy generation capacity and decrease the tax burden on enterprises among
others); and (iii) strengthen human capital (reform to improve the qualifications of the
workforce).
                                               9
B.      COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS

26.     This PRSC has been prepared in close coordination with IMF staff and the IMF PSI
reviews. The PSI focused, inter alia, on supporting the exchange rate peg, creating fiscal space,
strengthening public sector management, and addressing fiscal risks. In a number of areas
where the PSI and this operation overlap, the work is being closely coordinated to ensure that
consistent advice is provided to the authorities and that triggers and structural benchmarks
complement each other. Two such areas are public financial management and debt
management. With the objective of supporting the control of contingent liabilities of the State,
the Fund has included as a new structural benchmark for 2008-09 (met by end March 2009) the
compilation of the consolidated balance sheet of five state owned enterprises (including
ELECTRA, Enapor and TACV), detailing their debt by maturity, currency, residency and state
guarantees.

27.     Budget support in Cape Verde has been catalytic for donor harmonization around key
policy measures and results. Seven donors are now part of the Budget Support Group, and
have signed the Memorandum of Understanding "Partnership Framework between Budget
Support Partners and the Government of Cape Verde for the provision of Budget Support".
The Group consists of the African Development Bank, the Austrian Development Agency, the
European Commission, the Netherlands Embassy, Portugal, the Spanish Agency of
International Development for Cooperation and the World Bank. These donors conduct joint
reviews twice a year, which allow for consensus-building and lower transaction costs for the
Government. The Government and donors have developed a joint, streamlined matrix, which is
used as a basis for discussions and disbursement in the donors' respective operations. All
PRSC V prior actions are part of the joint matrix document (see Annexes 2A and 2B).

C.      RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS

28.     In parallel to this policy instrument, the World Bank is developing a Small and Medium
Enterprise (SME) Capacity Building and Economic Governance Project. This operation is a
response to a request by the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) and is meant to help the
Government provide direct support to private sector SMEs and design/implement related
reforms by providing the necessary resources. The operation is highly complementary to the
proposed PRSC V as it: (i) seeks to increase the access of SMEs to economic opportunities and
improve public sector governance; and (ii) works on the same policy areas as PRSC V. This
operation is expected to reinforce the development objective of PRSC V by helping to develop
a dynamic private sector through the provision of external services to SMEs and the support of
reforms to improve the investment climate (on areas that affect SMEs in particular) as well as
the improvement of public sector governance. The PRSC V team will coordinate closely with
the SME Capacity Building and Economic Governance Project to ensure synergies between
this project and the PRSC series.

29.   PRSC V also builds on the ongoing Growth and Competitiveness Project, which was
approved on May 2003 and is scheduled to close on December 2009.14 The goal of the Growth
and Competitiveness Project is to broaden the base of private participation in Cape Verde's

14
  A Growth & Competitiveness Supplemental Credit was approved on January 2007 to support the same
development objective through funding for additional activities.
                                                   10
economic growth and enhance private sector competitiveness and further develop its financial
sector. It does so by focusing on financial sector reform, investment climate reform, post
privatization and divestiture reforms, and private sector and institutional capacity building.
Thus, PRSC V would reinforce the Growth and Competitiveness Project by continuing to
provide support to actions to improve the investment climate, strengthen the financial sector
and increase institutional capacity.

30.     Additionally, other operations under development will reinforce infrastructure
development. First, an IBRD energy operation will contribute to strengthening the
infrastructure base of Cape Verde's ETS. Lack of stable supply of energy was flagged in the
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) as a major constraint to the private sector. This
operation would aim to restore the financial health of the sector and increasing supply,
including from renewable sources. Also, a transport operation under preparation will support
the Government's strategy to promote the development of the service economy potential based
on a multi-modal strategy by focusing on the roads sector.

D.     LESSONS LEARNED

31.   The design of PRSC V is based on the following lessons learnt from Cape Verde's
PRSC I through IV:

       (a)    Enhance Government ownership and donor coordination through the use of
              budget support. The move to budget support in Cape Verde has been catalytic
              in harmonizing aid to the country and continues to be highly relevant to the
              Cape Verde context. Budget support operations are succeeding in enhancing
              Government ownership and reducing transaction costs. This is particularly
              important in a small country such as Cape Verde where the public sector can be
              quickly overwhelmed by aid and requests from donors. The Budget Support
              Group now includes seven participants. Budget support donors have signed a
              Memorandum of Understanding with the Government detailing their
              commitment to aid coordination. This includes a joint matrix (highlighting the
              main policy and result indicators to be supported), joint review missions twice a
              year, and joint preparation and discussion of Aide-Mémoires.

       (b)    Technical assistance and capacity building resources should accompany policy
              lending in order to ensure inter alia (i) strengthening of counterparts, and (ii)
              support to specific reforms via analytical work or capacity building. The shift to
              budget support has meant that there is limited access to short term consultancies
              or technical assistance from the World Bank side during credit preparation as
              administrative procedures for the traditional Bank's Japan Policy and Human
              Resources Development preparation trust fund (PHRD) are too slow in light of
              the short span of a PRSC preparation cycle. Yet, achieving the results targeted
              by PRSCs requires strengthening counterpart capacity. The World Bank will
              remain closely involved in capacity building through technical advice from the
              PRSC team and financial and technical support through the SME Capacity
              Building and Economic Governance Project. Particularly relevant for this
              operation is the ongoing analytical work on poverty and labor markets.


                                              11
       (c)     Better link sectoral and cross cutting issues. In shifting from a sectoral
               investment project focus to the PRSC, the ability to embed sector policy within
               cross cutting issues (including decentralization, improved expenditure
               management and civil service reform) can increase the sustainability and impact
               of service delivery.

       (d)     Greater focus should be given to M&E systems. The previous four PRSCs have
               not yet resulted in a fully functioning M&E system in Cape Verde. In this
               context, PRSC V supports further improvement of the national M&E system.

       (e)     Simplified and harmonized policy matrix. Based on the experience of the first
               series of PRSCs, the policy matrix was prepared according to the principles of
               simplification (fewer prior actions and triggers) and harmonization (common
               matrix shared by donors).

E.     ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

32.     PRSC V is underpinned by comprehensive analytical work. This includes: (i) the
Poverty Assessment, Poverty Update, and Social Protection Strategy, which contributed to
determine the poverty and social impact of the operation; (ii) the Public Expenditure Review
(PER), Public Expenditure Review Update, Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
Assessment (PEFA), Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and "Cape Verde, Improving the Performance of the
State: Governance and Public Management", which contributed to the identification of reforms
to promote good governance and public sector capacity; and (iii) Investment Climate
Assessment (ICA), Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) and Diagnostic Trade
Integration Study (DTIS), which contributed to the identification of reforms to improve
competitiveness and the investment climate for private sector led growth. Among these
studies, the Poverty Update, ICA, DTIS and the Public Expenditure Review Update had
relevant inputs to the design of the proposed operation. For more details on the analytical work
that contributed to PRSC V, please see Table 3.

33.     The Poverty Update found that substantial progress has been achieved in poverty
reduction since the late 1980s thanks to rapid growth rates. The share of the population in
poverty has decreased from 49 percent in 1988-1989 to 27 percent in 2007. Nevertheless,
poverty reduction has been slower in the poorest areas of the country. Moreover, and despite
significant improvements in education and health, inequality remains high and social programs
are not well targeted. The Update recommends to better target social programs given: (i) the
smaller share of the population that currently needs government transfers; (ii) the need to better
reach remaining pockets of poverty and help the poor who are vulnerable to external shocks
(including the current international crisis); (iii) increased technical capacity to carry out
targeted programs; and (iv) lower costs of targeted programs versus universal programs. The
PRSC series will support poverty reduction mainly through initiatives to promote growth but
also through better targeting of social programs in Cape Verde following successful
international experiences (such as some recent experiences observed in Latin America).

34.   The latest ICA concluded that while manufacturing firms are relatively productive in
Cape Verde, there is the need to increase exports and diversification through reforms to
promote competitiveness and eliminate barriers to trade. Exports of manufacturing firms in
                                               12
Cape Verde are lower than in any of the comparator countries in the ICA, including small
island economies like Maldives and Mauritius. Expanding and diversifying the export base in
Cape Verde is important to reduce the vulnerability to external shocks and sustain and continue
to improve the standard of living. Structural constraints to exports in Cape Verde (like the
small size of the domestic market, physical isolation and the distance from major shipping
routes) make it difficult for firms to compete in labor intensive areas of manufacturing and
emphasize the importance of developing other industries (such as tourism, financial services
and IT services). Policies to promote exports should focus on: (i) increasing competitiveness
through improvements in the power sector and the promotion of lower labor costs (e.g. though
increasing the human capital of the work force); and (ii) reducing barriers to exporting. The
proposed PRSC supports initiatives in these areas, including the adaptation of procedures and
legislation to the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules, the preparation of a comprehensive
development strategy for the tourism sector, training of the work force and energy sector
reform. Additionally, PRSC supports lower tax rates for businesses, which was the top-two
constraint for doing business according to enterprises.

35.      Diversification is also a strong message coming from the DTIS prepared under the lead
of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in 2008. Recognizing the stellar
performance of the economy of Cape Verde over the past several decades, the study identifies
as main opportunities for Cape Verde the tourism sector, offshore activities and business
process outsourcing, the use of its geographical situation to operate as a platform for
international movement of goods and persons and the vibrancy of its culture. The study offers
recommendations related with trade and the investment climate.                Trade specific
recommendations include the definition of an external trade strategy and building up the
institutional and human resources capacity of the ministries involved. Investment climate-type
suggestions are to enhance vocational training programs and to promote and guarantee energy
sustainability for the country, and both of these actions are being supported by this PRSC
series.

36.      The Public Expenditure Review Update, "Cape Verde, The Challenge of Increasing
Fiscal Space to Meet Future Pressures", highlights Cape Verde's fiscal consolidation but points
out that further reforms are necessary. Improvements in tax collection and expenditure control
have resulted in a reduction of the fiscal deficit. Revenues performance has been strong
reflecting the successful introduction of the value added tax (VAT) in 2004 and improvements
in tax administration. However, mandatory expenditures are very high, and they are expected
to increase in the near future as a result of new legislation approved on pensions and local
finance as well as of the increase in borrowing. Progress in public finance reforms has
included efforts to improve the legal framework and budget execution. Key outstanding
impediments to the efficiency of public finance are: (i) the delay in the submission of accounts
to the Court of Auditors (Tribunal de Contas - TdC), which reduces the effectiveness of the
Court's assessments, (ii) weak implementation of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF); and (iii) insufficient means at TdC and the General Inspectorate for Finances (IGF) to
fulfill their mandates. Additionally, the Update points out the need to increase tariffs to ensure
the viability of Electra. PRSC V provides support to decrease the delay in the submission of
accounts to TdC and a medium-term strategy to restore the financial viability of the energy
sector.

37.    Ongoing and planned analytical work will provide inputs for the design of future
operations in the series. The PRSC V team will coordinate closely with the relevant teams so
                                           13
that ongoing and future analytical work provides specific inputs for the selection of prior
actions and triggers in the following operations in the series. This includes coordination with
the labor study that will be conducted to assess misalignments between recent unemployment
and GDP growth rates. This study will help to better understand the link between growth and
poverty reduction and will provide inputs on potential reforms to be supported to reduce
unemployment. Additionally, a Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) will update
knowledge on competitiveness and growth while making an emphasis on the identification of
relevant obstacles, thereby providing inputs on how future operations in the series could tackle
binding constraints for growth and competitiveness.

                           Table 3: Recent Relevant Analytical Work
                                   Study                                   Contribution to PRSC V
                                                                           and Program Document
       Poverty Assessment (2008) / QUIBB (Questionário dos                Poverty and social impact
       Indicadores Básicos de Bem-estar - Unified Questionnaire of
       Basic Wellbeing Indicators)
       Poverty Update (2009)                                              Poverty and social impact
       Public Expenditure Review (PER, 2006) - Report No. 34523           Policy matrix and risks
       Public Expenditure Review Update (2008), "Cape Verde: The          Policy matrix and risks
       Challenge of Increasing Fiscal Space to Meet Future Pressures"
       Cape Verde, Improving the Performance of the State: Governance     Policy matrix
       and Public Management
       Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)             Policy matrix and risks
       Assessment
       Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)                         Policy matrix
       Tax incentives by IMF and PFD (2008)                               Operation description
       Investment Climate Assessment (2006) - Report no. 38367            Policy matrix and operation
                                                                          description
       Cape Verde's Insertion in the Global Economy - Diagnostic Trade    Policy matrix
       Integration Study (DTIS) for the Integrated Framework for Trade-
       related Technical Assistance to the Least Developed Countries
       (2009)
       Tourism Satellite Accounting                                       Policy matrix
       (World Travel and Tourism Council, 2008)
       Fisheries Sector Strategy -                                        Background
       Report no. AAA21-CV
       Cost of Insularity                                                 Background
       Funded by ADB (Draft, 2007)
       Governance - Role of State ESW (3/04)                              Policy matrix and operation
       Preliminary analysis of Civil Service Database (2005)              description
       Social Protection Strategy (2005)                                  Poverty and social impact
       Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, 2003)           Policy matrix and operation
                                                                          description
       Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR, 2004) - Report        Policy matrix and operation
       no. 40412                                                          description




                                                    14
                               V.      THE PROPOSED PRSC V


 A.      RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES

 38.     PRSC V is the first of a series of three one-year operations to support the
 implementation of the Government's GPRSP II, which recognizes that poverty cannot be
 reduced without a robust broad-based growth agenda grounded in a competitive economy. The
 main development objective of this operation is to support policies and institutions aimed at
 developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of sustainable growth and poverty
 reduction. This will be done by focusing on two main policy areas: good governance and
 competitiveness and growth. Good governance is interpreted broadly and includes the
 following issues: fiscal policy, PFM, procurement, M&E, statistics and state modernization.
 Competitiveness constitutes the main multi-sector anchor for the proposed operation and
 includes human capital, trade, tourism, financial services, tax, land management and energy
 issues. The reforms supported by this operation are expected to promote the development of
 the private sector which is key to promoting growth in Cape Verde.

39.      The development policy objectives of the PRSC V are summarized below (details are
provided in the description that follows):

      (a) Support policies and institutions aimed at developing a dynamic private sector to be the
          engine of sustainable growth and poverty reduction, reinforcing the competitive
          advantage of Cape Verde's service sector.

      (b) Promote good governance through public expenditure management reforms, civil
          service reform and decentralization, and improvement in statistics and the monitoring
          and evaluation system.

 40.     PRSC V builds on the first series (PRSC I, II, III) and the transitional PRSC IV and
 marks a shift of focus from human development towards private sector development, reflecting
 the change in priorities of the Government program and the achievements of the first series and
 GPRSP-I. More specifically, this new series implies a shift of the World Bank support from
 health and education sectors towards growth and competitiveness, thereby following the new
 priorities of GPRSP-II. The initial series was largely successful in achieving its program
 objectives, having a satisfactory assessment. The policies and reforms that the first series
 supported achieved sustained improvements in the well-being of the population in the health
 and education sectors, improving access and quality of key social services.

 41.     As acknowledged in the relevant Implementation Completion Report, the five-year
 period of sustained Bank involvement in education and health has delivered good results and
 the World Bank's continued involvement in those sectors would likely, at this point, yield
 diminishing returns as sustainable poverty reduction needs to be grounded in a competitive fast
 growing economy. In fact, given the significant progress of the education sector under PRSC I,
 II and III, education was no longer an explicit component of PRSC IV. Improvements in the
 education sector included: increased spending in education, increased number of qualified
 teachers and improved teacher training, expansion of early childhood education, opening of
 new early childhood development centers, decrease of the repetition rate in primary education,
                                               15
consolidation of the universal coverage of primary education (with a net completion rate of
about 94.4 percent in 2006/07), achievement of parity for boys and girls in terms of access to
primary and secondary school, and increased number of pupils in secondary education (from
48,055 in 2001 to 53,465 in 2006/07). Improvements in the health sector during the first
PRSC series (PRSC I through IV) included: substantial progress in health financing and
strengthening the financial sustainability of the health sector, allocation of sufficient budget
financing for priority health programs, improvement in the availability of health personnel at
the decentralized level, progress in priority health programs (immunization and maternal
health), and increased capacity to deal with non-communicable diseases.

42.     Although Cape Verde has successfully attracted significant quantities of FDI in tourism,
the business environment remains difficult, and the Government will need to implement several
reforms to facilitate private sector development as the engine for growth and promote more
inclusive and equitable growth. Tourism has been the main engine of growth, representing
about 18 percent of GDP and US$712 million in approved investment projects in 2007. The
Government has prepared a comprehensive strategy for the sector (Tourism Master Plan) to
keep its destination competitive.15 Cape Verde's growth process has been characterized by
weak backward linkages, meaning that the high level of investments as a proportion of GDP
has had limited trickle down impacts on the rest of the economy. Few SMEs have been created
and/or expanded and, as a result, strong economic growth in recent years has not been
accompanied with substantial employment generation.

43.     The ICA conducted in 2006 points out that despite Cape Verde's strong growth record,
the country faces many challenges. Enterprises in Cape Verde identified electricity, tax rates,
cost of and access to financing and informal practices as the main investment climate
constraints. The assessment highlights that Cape Verde faces a major challenge concerning its
low propensity to export, which emerges from the small size of enterprises, high labor costs
and inefficient customs and ports procedures. In this context, the ICA proposes to implement
reforms to improve the performance of the power sector, reduce the costs of labor (e.g. through
more flexible labor legislation and improved training), reduce barriers to trade and improve
port performance. Cape Verde had a relatively low ranking in the World Bank's 2010 Doing
Business (DB) Report with a ranking of 146 out of 183 economies, showing stability in
performance from a year earlier (ranking was 147 in the 2009 DB Report). This highlights that
Cape Verde still needs to improve regulations to build a more attractive business environment,
particularly those related with closing a business, employing workers, and getting credit and
protecting investors (see Table 4).




15
   Going forward, it will be important to ensure that the regulatory and legal framework of the tourism sector
remains adapted to continue attracting investments, the organization of Government institutions is better aligned
with the strategy, and these institutions improve coordination and provide an adequate oversight of the tourism
sector. Other relevant issues are promoting greater and earlier involvement of the municipalities targeted by
tourism investment projects to increase local content and using a set of core indicators to allow efficient
monitoring of the latest sectoral development. Reforms to tackle some of these issues are included in the Joint
General Support Matrix included in Annex 2B.




                                                       16
               Table 4: Doing Business Rankings for Cape Verde ­ 2009-10
                  Doing Business Indicators, Cape Verde         2009      2010
                  Ease of Doing Business                        147       146
                  Starting a Business                           164       136
                  Dealing with Construction Permits              79        83
                  Employing Workers                             168       167
                  Registering Property                          125       126
                  Getting Credit                                131       150
                  Protecting Investors                          127       132
                  Paying Taxes                                  116       112
                  Trading Across Borders                         60        58
                  Enforcing Contracts                            40        38
                  Closing a Business                            183       183
                  Source: Doing Business Indicators, 2010


44.     Reforms to promote growth that is accompanied with job generation and poverty
reduction became even more relevant in the context of the current international crisis. Growth
projections have been revised downwards in Cape Verde, FDI has declined and the current
account deficit has widened with a slowdown in tourism receipts. Moreover, as previously
mentioned, strong economic growth in recent years has not been accompanied with substantial
employment generation and, as a result, unemployment is still high. While poverty has
declined, inequality is still high in Cape Verde.

45.     PRSC V will support key reforms to strengthen the business climate and promote
growth. These reforms will tackle the main challenges identified by the latest ICA, including
the lack of reliability of the electricity sector, perceived high tax rates, issues with training and
education of the labor force and barriers to trade. Additionally, the following operations in the
series, which will also benefit from additional analytical work on labor and poverty as well as
by the SME Capacity Building and Economic Governance Project, will support reforms to
improve the business environment, including the reduction of barriers to close a business (e.g.
the draft new bankruptcy law, where the country's performance is particularly poor). For more
details on these reforms, see section Policy Areas.

46.     To promote economic growth and private sector development, this operation supports
relevant public sector reforms to improve governance and public sector capacity. The public
sector reform agenda is thus the main element of continuity in the PRSC series, as previous
operations supported many of these reforms. For example, PRSC IV supported public
expenditure management reform, civil service reform, decentralization and M&E, which are
areas that will also be supported in this PRSC series. Cape Verde is one of the most advanced
countries in Africa in terms of governance, being a top performer in this year's Index of
African Governance by Harvard University (Cape Verde ranks third out of the 53 countries
included in the ranking). Cape Verde is transitioning from a least developed country to a low
Middle Income Country (MIC) and requires more support in ensuring that growth rates are
sustained and its public sector reaches a new level of performance consistent with MICs in
terms of transparency and efficiency. Support for this transition becomes particularly
important in view of the current global financial crisis. Good governance is seen by GOCV as
a strategic pillar to attract private capital in a MIC environment. It is proposed that the
operation continues the support initiated earlier in the critical areas of public financial
                                                17
management broadly defined. Statistics and monitoring and evaluation deserve special
mention: the quality, quantity and timeliness of Cape Verde data is weak compared to countries
with similar level of development. The proposed operation will focus on this area, which was
also noted as a persistent weakness in the evaluation of previous operations.

B.     POLICY AREAS

47.    The proposed operation will have two main policy areas: good governance and
competitiveness and growth. Good governance, broadly defined, constitutes a first policy area
both necessary to and amenable by the nature of the proposed operation (a budget support
operation). In its broad sense, good governance includes macroeconomic policies, PFM,
procurement, M&E, statistics and state modernization issues. Competitiveness constitutes the
main multi-sector anchor for this proposed operation and includes human capital, trade,
tourism, financial services, tax, land management and energy.

Objective and Policy Area 1: Promoting Good Governance and Public Sector Capacity

48.     Supporting macroeconomic stability and fiscal consolidation through the clearance of
arrears. Macroeconomic stability is recognized as a prerequisite for sustainable growth.
Although Cape Verde has made considerable progress on fiscal consolidation in recent years,
previous recorded and unrecorded debts still require action. Consequently, PRSC V supports
(as a prior action) the implementation of the plan for the clearance of past domestic arrears so
that outstanding stock is reduced to 16 percent, and PRSC VI will support the reduction of
arrears to zero - the 2009 budget contains provisions for the remaining stock of 16 percent and
other arrears that have been recognized. This complements the package of policies under the
PSI, which ensures that no new arrears are created. ELECTRA, the state-owned utility
company remains a major fiscal risk. To decrease this risk, PRSC V supports (as a benchmark)
the preparation of a time bound action plan to clear the arrears of ELECTRA to suppliers
within four years. These actions will help to reduce and control Government liabilities,
including contingent ones, to promote macroeconomic stability.

49.     Enhancing PFM. For the past years, the GOCV has demonstrated full commitment to
strengthen its PFM. The implementation of the action plan of the 2003 CFAA has allowed
addressing weaknesses and modernizing the PFM system. The Government has made progress
towards a modern PFM system through the adoption of an important set of reforms, including:
(a) submission of a new legal framework for Budget Planning and Preparation to the National
Assembly; (b) the introduction of a performing computerized system of integrated financial
management (the Integrated Financial Management System for the State Budget, SIGOF); (c)
the introduction of a new accrual-based National Chart of Accounts; (d) the drafting of a law to
increase the competence of the Court of Auditors (Tribunal de Contas, TdC); (e) designing a
new organizational structure for areas of the Government and the Ministry of Finance; (f)
introduction of a simplified medium term fiscal framework; and (g) submission of the drafts of
the revised General Tax Code, the Code on Judicial Processes, and the Tax Collection Code to
the National Assembly in August 2008. These reforms are expected to have a major positive
impact on all aspects of the budget cycle, including budget formulation and execution, treasury
management, financial reporting and accounting, as well as internal and external control.

50.   A Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) exercise was conducted in
2008. Results were largely positive and confirmed that PFM reforms based on the CFAA
                                          18
action plan are on track and with positive outcomes. Nonetheless, weaknesses were identified
in five principal areas: (i) oversight of fiscal risk from public sector entities, (ii) effectiveness of
internal audit, (iii) scope, nature and follow-up of external audit,16 (iv) donors' practices related
to the provision of information on projects and the use of Government procedures, and (v)
medium term budgeting and planning.

51.     The Government is committed to PFM reform and intends to keep improving PFM, in
particular, through the extension of SIGOF, the implementation of an accrual basis accounting
and the improvement of PFM capacity at decentralized levels. In order to achieve these
objectives, the Government agreed to carry out (before December 2009) an assessment of the
current PFM system in close collaboration with the World Bank and other interested donors.
The assessment would take into account the PEFA analysis and the latest PER and would be
used to update and prepare comprehensive short and medium-term PFM action plans.

52.      Under the PEFA assessment and previous diagnostics, the external control and,
particularly, the audit by the supreme audit institution (TdC) is one of the main weaknesses in
PFM. In terms of external controls, important efforts have been made to reinforce the role of
TdC. The Government submitted two bills to Parliament to modernize the legal framework of
TdC. The first bill, the Draft Law of Competencies of the Tribunal de Contas, establishes the
competencies of TdC. Among other changes, the proposal establishes the introduction of
flexibility in the ex-ante control, the adoption of economic, productivity and convenience
criteria in the control and the introduction of successive inspections for the whole public sector.
Furthermore, it establishes that the Government will have 12 months after the end of the fiscal
year to submit the General State Accounts to the Parliament. The second bill regulates the
staffing of TdC, allowing new recruitments at the TdC that will help to reduce delay to audit
the accounts of the State, Embassies, Municipalities, and others public entities. The principles
of these new laws were approved, but a new voting is required.

53.     To improve the timeliness of audits of State accounts, PRSC V supports (as a prior
action) the submission to Parliament of the Audited State General Accounts for 2006 and the
audited accounts of key municipalities and embassies. This will reduce the existent backlog in
the auditing of public sector accounts. The following operations in the series propose to support
the auditing of State accounts in the subsequent years (2007 through 2009) and the extension of
this auditing to new municipalities, embassies and institutes. These actions are expected to
improve the impact of external controls and the timeliness of audits of State accounts by TdC.
Having these accounts audited in a timely manner contributes to increase the reliability of
public sector financial information.

54.    Operationalizing the national procurement system. Following the 2004 Country
Procurement Issues Paper (CPIP) carried out by the Bank, the Government committed itself to
implement the CPIP action plan to improve the transparency and efficiency of the national
procurement system. The new Public Procurement Law became effective in January 2008 after
approval by the National Assembly on July 2007. PRSC supports (as a prior action) the
approval and promulgation of related regulations, which are critical to make operational the
new procurement legal framework. These regulations were published on January 2009.

16
  One of the key issues regarding the scope and nature of the external audit institutions is their involvement in the
prior review of financial transactions of the Government, which creates a potential conflict with their role of
external auditors.
                                                         19
55.     The Regulation Entity for Public Acquisitions (ARAP - the regulatory agency in charge
of overseeing public acquisitions) is well equipped and is now operational taking account of (i)
the approval by the Government of a decree defining the mandate, organization and functioning
of the regulatory body (ARAP), and (ii) the nomination of the management team composed of
the President of ARAP and two administrators. The Government is now taking the necessary
steps to set up the five key procurement management units (UGAs) in line ministries (Health,
Infrastructure, Education, Interior, Administration and Finance). An update of the CPIP action
plan is being considered by the Government. This updated action plan would be prepared with
technical assistance from the Bank and include a comprehensive assessment based on the
OECD/DAC methodology. The following operations in the PRSC series will keep providing
support in the procurement area to improve public procurement procedures through the creation
of the new public procurement directorate within the MoF.

56.     Statistics. The statistical system is relatively well developed in Cape Verde, but
availability of statistics on infrastructure, energy, employment and tourism is still limited.
There are some ongoing initiatives to improve the situation and further actions are expected
under the Statistical Agenda for Development 2006-2012. The Statistical Agenda for
Development includes the Government's planning on statistical activities for the period,
including planning related with human resources training, technology, and resource
mobilization. The implementation of the Agenda started in 2006 and has implied
improvements, including the sanctioning of a new law, the appointment of the president of the
National Statistics Institute (INE), improvement of institutional capacity (through new
equipment and training for INE staff and training for sectoral producers of statistics (OPES)
staff and implementation of surveys on employment, enterprises and tourism. Nevertheless, the
implementation of the Statistical Agenda for Development to solve challenges in the statistics
area has made slow progress and more remains to be done. For example, reliable and timely
data is scarce for the infrastructure sector and the Statistical Agenda does not include any
specific action for improvements in this sector. Planed improvements (as reflected in the
Statistical Agenda) include additional surveys on living conditions, employment and tourism
(including on accommodations for tourism, and the satisfaction and expenditure of tourists),
further capacity enhancement (through equipment for OPES and headquarters for INE) and the
development of related regulation.

57.     PRSC V supports (as a prior action) the promulgation of the new Statistical Law to
establish the new national statistical system. The law is a first step in the direction of having
the new national statistical system and is expected to tackle key weaknesses currently faced by
INE, including those related to personnel. Future operations in the series propose to support the
completion of relevant initiatives in the area: the completion of the platform to link INE and the
national M&E system and the implementation of the statistical agenda together with the
execution of the Population Census.

58.    Strengthening M&E. The national M&E system is aimed at monitoring all projects and
programs, whether funded by donors or not, and is quite ambitious. The goal is to have a
national integrated system of all sectors, which is not yet functional, despite considerable
progress in recent years. This M&E system defines the role of the different key players
according to their needs and levels of information. Information entered into the system is based
on the subsidiarity principle, meaning that information is collected, analyzed and reported at
the appropriate level. The national M&E system takes into account all sources of information:
SIGOF, databases for tax administration (private sector and individual), marital status, data
                                               20
from projects/programs, the Geographic Information System and data on external
aid/assistance, etc. Despite progress, more effort is needed and while the design is progressing
satisfactorily, its implementation is difficult, in part, because of the level of resources needed,
as well as capacity building requirements.

59.     PRSC V supports (as a benchmark) the integration of all 2008 projects and programs
output indicators in the database of the national M&E system as a step forward towards full
implementation of the system. Additionally, future operations in the series are expected to
support the integration and tracking of almost all active projects and programs' output
indicators in the database. The completion of the platforms between the national system and
the different sectors will ease some implementation issues and lead to a better understanding
and harmonization of the different roles in the process of collecting, analyzing and reporting on
indicators.

60.     In spite of these ambitious programs, the local capacity in M&E is weak, and the whole
system depends on a small group of private experts and public agents (Operational Nucleus of
Information Society -NOSI), localized in the Cabinet of the Ministry of Finance. Less than a
handful of locals are trained or have some knowledge in Results-Based Management (RBM)
and M&E. In the Department of General Planning, only two staff members have been exposed
to basic M&E training. The Government wishes to create a critical mass of trained M&E civil
servants to carry out the tasks of the program mentioned above.

61.     Government modernization. The authorities have placed state modernization on the top
of the agenda in Cape Verde. In its strategic documents, the Government has clearly expressed
its commitment for a leaner, more efficient State, commensurate with its goal of fast
development and the requirements of its growth agenda. IDA has been engaged in the
governance dialogue and reform agenda through projects and, since 2003, under joint budget
support operations. Results to date have been mixed as there is strong social and political
resistance to bold reforms. Nevertheless, current circumstances are facilitating bolder reforms
and the authorities remain committed to pushing the necessary reforms to rationalize state
structures, making the State more efficient.

62.      State reform and restructuring. A State reform and restructuring plan has been
articulated and is being coordinated by the State Reform Coordination Unit (UCRE). PRSC V
supports the implementation of this plan to rationalize state structures for a cost efficient
Government through the restructuring in ministries according to the plan (this is a benchmark
for the proposed operation). A first phase of implementation of the plan has started and is
progressing in a satisfactory manner, rationalizing the central structures of ministries such as
Justice, Foreign Affairs, Defense and Finance. This first phase focused on (i) harmonizing the
central structures of ministries (creation of a Directorate for Planning Budget and Management
-DGPOG- in each ministry), (ii) redefining the institutional status of four research institutions,
(iii) strengthening the inspection system, (iv) de-concentrating budget and human resources
management to line ministries, and (v) integrating the various governmental representations at
the regional level in order to better coordinate their activities. This new structure model is
included in the text of the first phase of the reform, which has been already approved by the
Council of Ministers.

63.   Decentralization. Decentralization of responsibilities and resources to municipalities is
the main measure chosen by GOCV to improve service delivery. The framework law on
                                             21
decentralization, adopted by the Council of Ministers in March 2008, espouses the existence of
only one decentralized level, the municipalities, and describes a process of transfers of new
mandates to the decentralized entities. The context and timing (given municipal elections and
the preparation of the finance law) did not allow this law to be included in the agenda of the
National Assembly to date, and the approval by the National Assembly may take time
considering the two-third majority of the votes required for approval and previous unsuccessful
debate.

64.    PRSC V supports (as a prior action) the implementation of the Municipal Information
System (Sistema de Informaçoes Municipais - SIM) in 11 municipalities and the remaining
operations in the series will continue providing support in this area to expand SIM to other
municipalities. SIM is a modern tool to strengthen municipal management capacity and
communication between the central level and the municipalities, and between municipalities. It
includes the following components (systems): taxes and fees, management fees, financial, land
management, human resources and administrative activities.

65.     The adoption of SIM is expected to help the implementation of the decentralization
process to move forward, strengthen municipal management, increase transparency and
enhance tax collection among others. The implementation of this system in the Municipality of
São Vicente has greatly facilitated record keeping and search. Before SIM was implemented in
São Vicente, the municipality used 22 different books to store information on the city budget
and other transactions but now all accounting and treasury data are on computers. This has
reduced wait times to access information. The Municipality (which was not connected to the
Internet until 2001) performs almost all budget operations online. Moreover, through greater
control and supervision of the computerized system, the Municipality of São Vicente has been
able to triple its tax income since 2001 mainly due to increased efficiency.

66.     Civil service reform. Civil service reform has progressed slowly, but stronger
incentives to come up with solutions may overcome resistance in the medium term. The
Government has launched a comprehensive review of its civil service, including the legal and
regulatory framework, with the goal of providing the State with a better trained and motivated
workforce. The Council of Ministers approved the new basic law on civil service (Lei de Bases
da Função Pública) in January 2008. However, submission to Parliament has been delayed to
ensure that the accompanying secondary legislation and comprehensive fiscal impact
assessment of wage reform implementation are first completed.

67.     The Government is also in the process of finalizing the draft on a new pay and grading
structure (PCCS), including the publication of a decree and a program encouraging mobility
and other ways to deal with the issue of redundant personnel. The mobility plan includes
incentives for staff that will be in the `staffing reserve' to seek alternative careers, both through
positive (subsidies) and negative (reduction in wage after six months of being in the `reserve')
incentives. PRSC V supports (as a benchmark) the approval of this decree on mobility by the
Council of Ministers, and future operations in the series are expected to support the approval of
PCCS and the establishment of a senior career service.

68.    Although PRSC V is expected to contribute to poverty reduction mainly through
enhanced growth policies, it is proposed that this PRSC series support new types of efforts to
help the GOCV to be more efficient in its fight to reduce poverty. Currently, public spending

                                                 22
geared towards the most vulnerable population is not efficient and little targeting is taking
place. Poverty reduction has been substantial over the last 20 years and, as a general rule, the
remaining poverty will be more difficult to tackle. As a result, the GOCV should adopt more
sophisticated targeted instruments in its fight to reduce poverty. A strategy for the
implementation of new generation of targeted safety net is being included as indicative trigger
for PRSC VII.17


Objective and Policy Area 2: Improving Competiveness and Investment Climate for Private
Sector-led Growth

69.    The Government is preparing and implementing a set of relevant policies to improve the
country's competitive position, which are described in the paragraphs below.

70.     International trade. Cape Verde is determined to be a truly open economy and has
recently joined the WTO, becoming its 153rd member. It is expected that WTO accession will
attract higher levels of FDI, strengthen domestic policies and institutions for the conduct of
international trade for goods and services, enhance the ease and security of market access to
major export markets and provide access to a trade dispute settlement mechanism. In order to
fully benefit and comply with its agreement, the GOCV is undertaking several initiatives,
including the review of the Customs Code to progressively adapt rules and procedures to WTO
guidelines, the approval (by the Council of Ministers) of decrees on food labeling and an
integrated system of early warning for food, and improvements in customs administration.

71.    PRSC V supports (as a prior action) the satisfactory progress in the implementation of
an action plan agreed in the WTO accession package to adapt procedures and legislation to
WTO rules as evidenced by the approval of the Ecological Tax bill and of customs code
consistent with the WTO agreement by the Council of Ministers. These actions will help Cape
Verde to access new markets and promote foreign investments by having rules that are
compatible with those in international markets. Although the expected short run impact on
imports is not likely to be large, there could be a positive long run impact on trade integration.
Additionally, PRSC VI and VII are expected to support the preparation of a revised investment
code consistent with the WTO agreement and a new draft law on intellectual property.

72.     Customs administration continues to take steps to improve its efficiency, which has
resulted in a reduction of related costs and time. The introduction of the new system, which
links all of its offices and includes staff training, has contributed to greater efficiency and
reduced maintenance costs. The Doing Business report indicates that it takes only two days to
clear customs. Customs is negotiating an agreement with ENAPOR (the Ports Authority,
which is in charge of port warehouses) to integrate its computerized management system. This
is likely to result in additional efficiency and time gains to end users. ENAPOR has started a
privatization process aimed at improving efficiency and its sale is expected to take place in
2009 (provided economic conditions are not too unfavorable). An efficient port authority will
also improve inter-island transport by reducing costs. But there still is room for improvement
and a review of logistics and inter-modality is planned.


17
   This action is included here in Policy Area 1, Promoting Good Governance and Public Sector Capacity, while it
is included in the joint matrix under the Social Cohesion pillar.
                                                       23
73.     The Government is also drafting an intellectual property law, which would be supported
by PRSC VII and should reinforce the competitiveness of the domestic music industry. Cape
Verde is distinguished by its renowned music, a unique intellectual product that is exported all
over the world. Adequate intellectual property protection (if well implemented) will further
reinforce its unique brand and, therefore, its competitiveness and enhance this source of
revenue.

74.     Tax system. Improvement in the investment climate through tax reductions and the
rationalization of tax incentives is an element of competitiveness and sustainable development.
At the end of 2008, the administration adopted an across the board reduction in the income tax
for both households and businesses, thereby implementing a first step of tax reform, which
includes plans of an overhaul of the current system of tax incentives. The tax rate for
businesses was brought down to 25 percent from 30 percent, with retroactive effects to 2008
income. PRSC V has included the approval of this across the board reduction in tax rates for
business as a prior action.

75.      The GOCV is also working on a draft law revising the current system of tax incentives,
which will be supported by the following operations in the series. Currently, tax incentives are
linked to sectors without ex-post controls or an evaluation of their effectiveness from the
authorities. Following a study carried out by the IMF, there is agreement that the direct and
opportunity costs of those incentives are relevant. The GOCV has come to the conclusion that
it is best to change paradigm and link incentives to: (i) the creation of formal employment; (ii)
the size of investments; (iii) the improvement of human capital; (iv) the strengthening of
productive capacity; and (v) the deepening and broadening the financial sector.

76.     Financial sector. The level of intermediation is relatively high in Cape Verde compared
to other countries with a similar level of development as credit to private sector stood at 45
percent of GDP in 2007. The financial sector remains highly concentrated with two large
banking institutions holding 85 percent of loans and deposits at year end 2007. Banks still rely
on non-resident emigrant deposits for a considerable part of their funding.18 The interbank
market remains underdeveloped, with the Central Bank (BCV) as the main conduit for
liquidity. Loans for the larger corporate sector are readily available but financing for SMEs is
limited. The stock market remains very small with capitalization of 16 percent of GDP at end-
2007. Pension funds have grown rapidly.

77.     Financial services remain an important strategic pillar for the development of the
economy of Cape Verde. Competitiveness in such an area will be achieved, first, with stability
and strength and, second, with efficiency. In the current environment, priority should be given
to stability enhancing policies. The Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) finds that the
banking system is already providing adequate basic financial services to the population and
therefore there is no need to recourse for nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to collect
deposits. Such option does not appear useful under the circumstances and represents an
inefficient use of scarce BCV resources, as BCV would need to supervise them. In this
context, PRSC V will support (as a benchmark) the revision of the Microfinance Law to
establish clearer limits to deposit taking.



18
     These account for over one-third of total deposits.
                                                           24
78.     The frontier between on-shore banking and off-shore banking became rather blurred
with the unfolding of the current financial crisis. Indeed, the global banking crisis has
demonstrated both the weakness of a specific off-shore regime and the importance for Central
Banks to have adequate supervisory powers. The lighter regulatory regime of the off-shore
banking sector in Cape Verde should be reformed as it is a source of considerable risks. In this
regard, the recent closure of Banco Insular, an off-shore noncompliant bank that had solvency
issues, is a step in the right direction and is being supported by PRSC V as a prior action. The
closure of Banco Insular was implemented through a decree published by the Ministry of
Finance based on a recommendation of the Central Bank. The resolution of this bank has
reduced exposure of offshore banking and has contributed to reduce the reputational risk that
the off-shore sector represents for Cape Verde.

79.     Further improving the set of financial soundness indicators and extending the
application of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) accounting norms to
banks and insurance companies is an important step to reduce vulnerabilities in the financial
sector. PRSC VI and VII are expected to support reforms to keep strengthening the stability of
the financial sector, including changes to the legal framework for bank supervision and the
application of IFRS accounting norms to banks and insurance companies.

80.     Reduction of regulatory burden. Some reforms to reduce obstacles for doing business
have advanced well. Cabo Verde Digital (NOSi) has successfully launched Casa do Cidadão in
2008, which is supported by the proposed PRSC V as a benchmark. Casa do Cidadão is a one
stop shop with four modules: (i) obtaining birth, death, and marriage certificates; (ii) registering
a company in one day; (iii) obtaining an automobile unified document; and (iv) allowing
electronic payment. This E-Government initiative, an integrated program revolutionizing the
way the Government and the private sector interact in Cape Verde, provides a system that is
effective, transparent, participatory and operationally cheap. This system will: (i) improve the
flow of resources and data, thus minimizing possibilities for rent seeking; (ii) promote
entrepreneurial capacity through information technology and stimulate electronic commerce;
and (iii) bring Government closer to the population, which is particularly important with such a
large proportion of migrants. This initiative had a positive effect on the ranking in the 2010
Doing Business Survey, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of days to open a
business (from 52 to 24). Additionally, the unit in charge of state reform (UCRE) is
coordinating transversal reforms in the business environment. If adequately implemented,
those reforms can have significant impacts in the ability to attract private investments.

81.    The Government is committed to keep working on reforms to improve the business
climate and future operations in the series are expected to keep providing support in this area.
More specifically, PRSC VI and VII are expected to support the drafting of a new bankruptcy
law and actions to lower the cost of property registration.

82.     Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET).19 Despite the relative
quality of human capital in Cape Verde, the high rates of unemployment evidence inadequate
match between supply and demand; and actions to streamline vocational training are expected

19
  In the CPS, "strengthening human capital" --and therefore vocational training-- is part of strategic objective 3
"Social Inclusion". In the proposed operation, it is part of the policy objective 2 i.e. "competitiveness". Policies
and activities that contribute to strengthening human capital do in fact contribute to both objectives
competitiveness and poverty reduction. In the proposed operation, the emphasis is on competitiveness.
                                                         25
to contribute to address this situation. Simulations indicate that to reduce unemployment from
17 percent today to 10 percent by 2012, 6,000 people would need to be trained annually.
However, only 1,853 were trained last year. Aside from the low number of trainees, there are
several issues that negatively affect the quality of human capital in Cape Verde: (i) low usage
of training capacity (10 percent to 35 percent according to staff estimates), (ii) the lack of
assessment of labor market needs, (iii) problems of quality and effectiveness of training, and
(iv) lack of resources and institutional weaknesses, including inadequate coordination on
planning, implementation and monitoring activities between different structures (employment
centers, Ministry of Labor, providers).

83.     TVET is meant to respond to these challenges, including by greater involvement of the
private sector and an assessment of current performance. Notwithstanding the substantial
resources the Government is spending (and will spend) on vocational training, prospective
employers continue to indicate that they do not find workers with the skills required to fill
available jobs. Thus, including the private sector in the planning and design of training will
likely lead to target TVET resources where they are most needed. Specifically, this would
entail (i) supporting an adequate 2009 Annual Work Plan; (ii) developing a results matrix that
allows the Ministries of Employment and Education to measure progress; and (iii) reactivating
the Training Support Fund (TSF) with adequate operational regulations.

84.    PRSC V supports (as a benchmark) the ministerial decision to re-activate and improve
the TSF to enhance the qualification of the work force to meet labor market demand and future
operations in the series are expected to support the establishment of new operating procedures
for TSF and the implementation of the TVET Action Plan (with private sector participation).
Enhancing skills that are highly demanded is expected contribute directly to the economy's
competitiveness.

85.      Land management. Problems in this area included lack of planning (that fed the growth
of slums around main cities); land registration issues that created expensive conflicts; and the
lack of zoning enforcement which fed the perception of weaknesses and lack of confidence in
the governance system. Given these weaknesses, land management reforms rank high on Cape
Verde's development agenda and the GOCV has taken decisive steps to enhance
competitiveness in the area. First, the Government has embarked on a large land policy review
which led to an update of major laws and a new strategic planning system. The Land Use and
Cadastre Decree-Laws were approved in October 2008, later replaced by a decree-law
approved in August 2009. The proposed operation supports, as a prior action, the approval of
the new Cadastre Law as well as the appointment of a task force to operationalize it and
improve land use. Remaining challenges in land use include land possession without proper
titling and registration issues. The cadastre project is an inventory tool that will help with this
situation. The implementation of the critical Cadastre system is progressing, spearheaded by a
multi-ministerial team.

86.    Cape Verde will not be competitive as a tourism destination for both hotels and
apartments if it cannot provide adequate property titles at a reasonable cost. Cape Verde has
much to gain from taxing real estate properly and providing funding, at least for maintenance,
for needed infrastructure. Similarly, completing island level development plans (EROTs) and
municipal plans (PDMs) will be instrumental in improving land management and address
population growth, mobility and urban expansion via adequate planning of infrastructures.

                                                26
The remaining operations in the PRSC series will keep providing support to improve land
management, including the development and approval of EROTs.

87.     Energy sector. A modern and efficient energy sector able to supply the needed energy
for growth, competitiveness and welfare improvements is a central objective of the GPRSP II.
Demand has been increasing fast as a result of economic growth while supply, dominated by
the historical operator, ELECTRA, is characterized by poor service and deteriorating
operational performance (electricity total losses were above 25 percent in 2007, against 18
percent in 2003). Bill collection ratio is also low (92 percent in 2008). As a result, ELECTRA's
financial situation is unsustainable, leading to under-investment. Hence, restoring the financial
viability of the sector, improving ELECTRA's operational (technical and commercial)
performance and increasing generation capacity are essential.

88.      The Government has prepared a medium-term development strategy for the energy
sector, approved by the Council of Ministers in November 2009. The approval of this plan by
the Council of Ministers is included in the current operation as a prior action. PRSC VI and
VII are expected to support the adequate implementation of the medium-term development
strategy. This strategy will address key outstanding problems in the energy sector, by means of
ELECTRA's institutional reform and the reinforcement of the regulatory framework (including
tariff setting), ultimately opening space to increased private participation in the sector.

89.     Cape Verde is seeking to reduce its dependency on fossil fuels taking into account its
lack of mineral resources and geographic position. The Bank, as a key donor in the energy
sector, will continue to support the Government to develop and modernize the energy sector.
The CPS proposes to allocate IBRD funds to support ELECTRA's financial recovery and
modernization, which includes its related investment program. The World Bank would also
support the ongoing Windmill Parks project bringing to bear instruments from IBRD, IFC and
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA).

90.      The proposed PRSC would reinforce these investment operations by providing support
to the strengthening of the policy framework. A medium term development strategy for the
electricity sector is included as a prior action in this operation. Key aspects of the new strategy,
included as triggers for the following operations include: (i) definition of ELECTRA
restructuring, including private sector participation options and legal and regulatory
implications; (ii) implementation by Electra of measures to improve operational and
commercial performance; (iii) definition and implementation of a mechanism to settle public
customers electricity bills; and (iv) adoption of a new tariff mechanism consistent with the
restructured Electra.

91.     Transport. In the interest of selectivity, the initial version of this PRSC series did not
contemplate actions in transport. However, since recent consultative process with Government
and donors have suggested that accelerating reforms in this area is an emerging priority for the
country and a key area for competitiveness and growth in Cape Verde, future operations in the
series will support it.

92.       Cape Verde's infrastructure and arrangements for international transport (by sea and
air) often lags behind competitors in several respects and inter-island transport remains a major
challenge (DTIS 2009). For instance, poor island connections are one reason why tourism is
almost completely by-passing some islands. Additionally, high costs of maritime transportation
                                                27
between islands imposes additional costs on enterprises (e.g. hotels), erodes the advantage that
Cape Verdean suppliers should have over overseas suppliers and discourages economic
activities that depend on inputs from outside in peripheral islands. National economic
integration and social inclusion continue to be central issues to the development of Cape Verde.
Reducing the geographical gap between islands, improving accessibility by mean of an
affordable and dependable transportation network connecting the rural areas to urban centers
and improvement of inter-island transport and inter-modal logistics is crucial to Cape Verde's
growth and national integration strategic objectives. Logistical facilities for transferring cargo
from maritime to road or air transport are limited, adding to storage costs and delays that
further undermine competitiveness. While impressive investment has been undertaken to
upgrade airports and port facilities, as well as to rehabilitate the core road network to a
sustainably maintainable level, bottlenecks in coordination between air, sea (ferry) and road
transport remain to be addressed to support trade, tourism and inter-island connectivity more
broadly.

93.     Cape Verde is committed to modernizing and developing its transport networks and the
Bank is supporting this process through the ongoing Road Sector Support Project. The project
is supporting road sector reforms comprising advances in consolidating sector management,
obtaining predictable funding for maintenance activities and establishing oversight mechanisms
for sector expenditures. The GOCV has completed the legislative changes needed in support of
these initiatives. As a result, a road institute has been established and user charges are already
being collected in a road fund for regular maintenance expenditures. Transfer of capital works
from the Ministry to the road institute is foreseen and will complete the process of sector
consolidation. The Government is currently drafting changes to the operational charter of all
public enterprises, which may impact the reformed organization and functioning of the road
sector. The transport sector operation under preparation will coordinate with the Government to
ensure that these changes continue to support efficient sector management. The proposed
operation will also support the envisaged consolidation of the capital and maintenance works at
the road institute and facilitate planning and sector oversight mechanisms.

94.     The current PRSC series will focus on air transport, given its importance for tourism
and economic growth in Cape Verde. PRSC VI and VII will support improvements in the
financial viability of the national transport aviation company (TACV, from its acronym in
Portuguese) through: (i) reductions of direct operating costs (excluding fuel) per passenger seat
kilometer offered and, (ii) the increase of unit revenues (as measured by passenger seat
kilometer offered). As agreed with the counterparts, baseline for the indicators will be detailed
during preparation of PRSC VI.

95.     Prior actions. The proposed PRSC V prior actions (see Table 5 below) are drawn from
the new series Program Matrix (see Annex 2A) which itself (with the exception of transport
triggers) is a subset of the Donors' joint Budget Support Matrix (see Annex 2B). All PRSC V
prior actions have been met. Proposed triggers for PRSC VI and indicative triggers for PRSC
VII are specified in Table 6.




                                               28
                                   Table 5: Summary of PRSC V Prior Actions
            PRSC-V PRIOR ACTIONS                        Status                Outcome                           Indicator20
                                            Policy area 1: Promote Good Governance
Completed the implementation of the second          Implemented Reduced central                       Outstanding stock of arrears
phase of the 2005 plan for the clearance of                        government stock of debt           (%).
public arrears as evidenced by the reduction of                    towards the private sector,
outstanding public arrears to 16 percent of the                    institutes and
original stock.                                                    municipalities.

Submitted to its National Assembly the audited:    Implemented      Improved impact of                Timeliness of audits of State
(a) State General Accounts for the year 2006;                       external controls.                accounts sent to the
and (b) accounts of key municipalities and                                                            Parliament.
embassies.
Approved, through its Council of Ministers the     Implemented      Improved transparency and         % of non complying sole
regulations of the new Public Procurement                           efficiency of public              source contracts.
Law.                                                                procurement processes.

Completed the implementation of SIM in 11 of       Implemented      Strengthened                      Time necessary to produce
the Recipient's municipalities.                                     decentralization and              accounts for all
                                                                    municipal management.             municipalities.

Approved, through its National Assembly, the       Implemented      Improvement in the quality        Annual PRSP review reports
Statistical Law.                                                    and availability of statistics.   based on updated data.

                                       Policy Area 2: Support Competitiveness and Growth
Approved through its Council of Ministers, the      Implemented Increased attractiveness of           Marginal Effective Tax Rate
reduction in corporate tax rates for businesses.                  the country for establishing        reduced.
                                                                  firms.

Completed the initial phase of implementation                       More favorable climate for        Exports and imports as
of the Recipient's action plan which will                           investments in the country.       proportion of GDP
adjust the Recipient's procedures and              Implemented
legislation on trade to those of WTO rules as
evidenced by: i) approval of the Ecological Tax
bill by the Council of Ministers; and ii)
approval by Council of Ministers of the draft-
law for the customs code consistent with the
WTO agreement.

Approved, through: (a) its Council of                               Transparent rules for land        Number of EROT and PDM
Ministers, the Cadastre Decree- Law; and (b) its   Implemented      allocation and use.               homologated
Prime Minister Office, the appointment of a
task force empowered to implement it.
Reduced exposure of off-shore banking as           Implemented      Financial stability               Weighted average (by assets)
shown by the closure of a noncompliant                              reinforced.                       of the Capital Adequacy
offshore institution.                                                                                 Ratio.

Approval by Council of Ministers of a medium       Implemented      Restore financial viability       Debt service coverage ratio
term development strategy for the electricity                       of the electricity sector and     of Electra.
sector.                                                             improve sector governance         Technical and non technical
                                                                                                      losses as % of generation.




      20
           For benchmarks please see Annex 2B.
                                                               29
            Table 6: Proposed Triggers for PRSC VI and Indicative triggers for PRSC VII
    Policy Area                       Triggers PRSC-VI                       Indicative Triggers PRSC-VII
                                      Policy area 1: Promote Good Governance
Macroeconomic            Elimination of remaining outstanding public    Percentage of arrears of ELECTRA cleared.
Stability                arrears.

PFM: External            Audit of 2007 and 2008 State Accounts as well          Audit of : (i) 2009 State Accounts and (ii)
controls                 accounts of new municipalities, embassies and          accounts of new municipalities and
                         institutes submitted to Parliament.                    embassies submitted to Parliament

Procurement              The new Public Procurement Directorate for
                         controlling UGAs' activities is operational within
                         the DGPE.

Government               Approval of the New Career and Salary System           Establishment of a senior career service.
Modernization            (PCCS) by the Council of Ministers.

Statistics and M&E       (i) Completion of the platform linking INE data        Statistical Action Plan implemented
                         and National M&E system; and (ii)
                         80 percent of all active projects and programs'
                         output indicators integrated and tracked in the
                         database of the national M&E system.

Efficiency of            .                                                      Approval by the Council of Ministers of a
Government poverty                                                              strategy for the implementation of new
reduction activities                                                            instruments for targeted safety net.


                                Policy Area 2: Support Competitiveness and Growth
       Trade           Approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft Preparation of a new draft law on intellectual
                       Investment Code consistent with WTO             property
                       agreement.
Vocational Training                                                    Satisfactory implementation of the TVET
                                                                       Action Plan, with private sector participation.

Financial Sector       Bank supervision legal framework revised to give       IFRS accounting norms applied to banks and
                       BCV more authority.                                    insurance companies

Business Climate       New bankruptcy law drafted.                            Implementation of actions to lower the cost of
and Tax System                                                                property registration.

                                                                              Draft law revising tax incentives submitted to
                                                                              Council of Ministers for approval
Energy                 Advancement toward implementation of the               Advancement toward implementation of the
                       medium term development strategy, as evidenced         medium term development strategy as
                       by: (i) definition of Electra restructuring,           evidenced by: (i) definition and implementation
                       including private sector participation options and     of a mechanism to settle public customers
                       legal and regulatory implications; (ii)                electricity bills; (ii) adoption of a new tariff
                       Implementation by Electra of measures to               mechanism consistent with the restructured
                       improve operational and commercial                     Electra.
                       performance.
Transport              Improvement in TACV financial sustainability           Improvement in TACV financial sustainability
                       through: (i) reduction of direct operating costs       through: (i) reduction of direct operating costs
                       (excluding fuel) per passenger seat kilometer          (excluding fuel) per passenger seat kilometer
                       offered; and, (ii) increase of unit revenues (as       offered; and, (ii) increase of unit revenues (as
                       measured by passenger seat kilometer offered).         measured by passenger seat kilometer offered).

                                                          30
                       Box 2: Good Practice Principles for Conditionality

Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
Cape Verde has a strong track record of commitment to a development agenda (the country is on track for the
MDGs and has already reached some of them), as well as a strong tradition of openness and consensus-building
around key reforms. This new series builds on the GPRSP-II (a document prepared based on participatory
processes) and analytical work led and owned by the Government, such as the work on public finances (PEFA)
and studies on poverty (QUIBB). The shift of focus from human development towards private sector development
in this new PRSC series reflects the change of priorities in the Government Program (GPRSP-II).

Principle 2: Agree up front with the Government and other financial partners on a coordinated accountability
framework
The move to budget support has been catalytic in harmonizing aid in Cape Verde, which is critical in a small
country. The Budget Support Group now counts with seven participants and budget support donors signed a
Memorandum of Understanding with Government detailing their commitment to aid coordination. This
Memorandum includes: (i) a joint matrix highlighting main policy and result indicators supported by budget
support; (ii) joint reviews missions twice a year, and (iii) joint preparation and discussion of Aide-Mémoires.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country circumstances
The proposed operation has been developed in close coordination with the Government and the sectors concerned.
All policy actions draw on a solid and recent set of analytical work, and are fine-tuned to adequately reflect
country priorities and pace of implementation. The value added of the PRSC lies in both the nature of the
instrument and the results that are expected, since it reduces transaction costs and distortions due to international
assistance ­ particularly acute in a small size country - whilst improving the functioning of national budget
systems.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement
The proposed conditions for disbursement represent critical steps for program implementation and span from
adoption of laws, selected implementation of activities drawn from already adopted action plans, and concrete
outcomes of policies when measurable. The number of prior actions does not exceed ten. The Bank PRSC matrix
contains more than 20 benchmarks, chosen at the onset of the program. The relatively high number of benchmarks
reflects the fact that the PRSC operation spans many sectors.

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based financial
support
Full program reviews take place twice a year on an agreed schedule with all budget support donors. This new
PRSC series provides predictable support. The World Bank support volume, however, was announced at the
beginning of preparation of the 2008 Budget, and the Government included it in its yearly budget preparation. The
amount was later increased, to attend a request of the government to donors to help fund a financing gap
associated with the reduction in revenues in 2009, a consequence of the international financial crisis. The Cape
Verde PRSC matrix includes result indicators linked to the supported policy actions. Program reviews pay
particular attention to results, through close monitoring of indicators.




                                                        31
                           VI.    OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION


A.       POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

96.      According to the latest data presented in December 2008, the share of the population
with consumption under the poverty line has fallen from 36.7 percent in 2001 to 26.6 percent in
2007. Access to potable water and electricity has improved. The rate of households owning a
mobile phone increased sharply from 19 percent in 2001 to 55 percent in 2007. Other
dimensions of the quality of life have improved such as usage of modern toilets, sanitation and
solid waste management, having a positive impact on health. Nevertheless, 25 percent of
households continue to use wood and gasoil for cooking and this rate has not improved.

97.       Cape Verde remains a country with relatively high inequality in West and Central
Africa. In 2001, the Gini coefficient stood at a height of 0.525 compared to 0.361 for Mali, 0.342
for Senegal and 0.404 for Cameroun. World Bank estimates using household survey results
indicate that inequality may have decreased, as the Gini coefficient declined by five points during
recent years to reach 0.472. These positive developments (i.e. the decrease in the poverty rate
and possible decrease of inequality) are clearly a rather urban phenomenon.

98.        Given the overall thrust of PRSC V, no negative impacts on vulnerable groups are
envisaged. To the contrary, supported reforms will result either in improved overall well-being
because of better governance and more efficient and equitable government services or in specific
gains for the poorest and most vulnerable members of society because of efforts to achieve
sustainable and inclusive growth. The measures supported by the proposed PRSC V are expected
to have a positive impact on poverty reduction mainly through increased growth. While the
PRSC series does not have a special focus on rural poverty, it supports measures that will be
particularly beneficial to the rural poor. For example, by bringing government services closer to
citizens, the decentralization process will especially benefit those who would ordinarily have
difficult access to such services, notably rural dwellers. Specific benefits of PRSC V include the
following:

         (i)    Strengthening of public expenditure management, which would enhance
                efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resources use and reduce the
                stock of debt in the long term.
         (ii)   Reducing the potential for crowding out in the financial sector and promoting
                access to financing for the private sector (given the lower stock of public debt).
         (iii) Supporting the decentralization process will particularly benefit those who would
               ordinarily have difficult access to public services, notably rural dwellers.
         (iv) Improving training of the workforce to reduce unemployment.
         (v)    The adaptation of procedures and legislation to the WTO will help promote
                investments and employment generation.
         (vi) The improvement of statistics and M&E systems will allow better targeting of
              social programs in the future.


                                                 32
99.       In addition, the PRSC series will support new types of efforts to help the GOCV to be
more efficient in its fight to reduce poverty, mainly through the adoption of new instruments to
better target public resources for poverty reduction.

100.     Due to the nature of the instrument, the PRSC is also expected to contribute to
increasing the Government's absorption capacity for external resources and reducing transaction
costs and distortions due to international assistance.

B.        ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

101.      The specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC V are not likely to have
significant positive or negative effects on the country's environment, forests, and other natural
resources. The first policy area of this operation, governance, was already covered in Cape
Verde PRSC IV, and IDA determined that the actions supported by PRSC IV were not expected
to have a significant effect on Cape Verde's environment due to the nature of the areas covered
(public finance management, civil service and decentralization, monitoring and evaluation, health
care, and social protection). Additionally, the reforms related with competitiveness (the second
policy area supported by this operation) are not expected to have a negative effect on the
environment:

     ·   First, the reduction in the corporate tax rates for businesses does not imply a reduction in
         the pollution tax rate.

     ·   Second, the reforms to adapt procedures and legislation to WTO rules are expected to
         have a only a moderate impact on trade in the short run, as exports of goods are relatively
         low in the country and expected changes in tariffs are also limited.

     ·   Third, the energy reform aims at increasing the share of cleaner, renewable sources of
         energy in total capacity, having, in the long-term, a positive impact on the environment.

     ·   Finally, the Cadastre Law that this operation supports is intended to have a positive
         impact on the environment. The Law will ensure compliance with existing zoning,
         including protected areas for agriculture and local development. Additionally, the use of
         land and zoning will improve as planning will ensure that clear lines are established to
         preserve natural resources and promote economic development. The Ministry of
         Environment has technical know-how to monitor this planning process and is taking a
         proactive approach to build capacity related with land planning.

102.      Climatic vulnerability, erratic rainfall, limited fresh water supplies, and reliance on
tourism as an engine of development make the sustainable use of resources and the protection of
the environment as central to poverty reduction. The Government, with support from the
Netherlands cooperation and United Nations Development Program (UNDP), developed a
National Environmental Plan (PANA, 2004-14) that identified policies, investments and result
indicators to promote the rational use of natural resources and the sustainable management of
economic activities. The Plan identifies three main environmental issues that match the MDGs in
the areas of water supply, sanitation, and marine and terrestrial biodiversity.

103.    Within the GPRSP-II, environment is included essentially in Pillar IV: Infrastructure.
The Spanish and Austrian Cooperation are currently providing budget support with a focus on the
                                                  33
dialogue in the environmental sector. This dialogue has been summarized in a sector-specific
environmental policy matrix that addresses main issues and has been agreed on. This matrix
identifies critical prior actions and a set of result indicators, which are currently being monitored.

104.     Recent developments on environmental governance in Cape Verde include the
following:

         (a)     The 2008 annual implementation report of PANA II was approved by the CAN
                 (Conselho Nacional do Ambiente).

         (b)     A revision of PANA II started in 2009, which is an opportunity to adapt the
                 strategy to the current needs and lessons learned.

         (c)     A tender for the consultancy to address the problem of budget classifiers and to
                 standardize them according to international best practices was published in early
                 2009.

         (d)     The Environmental Quality Monitoring System (SSQA) was created and has
                 started to function.

         (e)     Pending issues include the need to elaborate PANA II annual plans, determine a
                 calendar for disbursements for PANA II and further improvement of supervision
                 and enforcement capacity.

C.        IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

105.     The PRSC V is overseen by the country GPRSP Steering Committee chaired by the
Minister of Finance. Under the umbrella of the Ministry of Finance, all ministries involved in the
GPRSP-II pillars participate in the design, implementation and monitoring of the Donors' joint
Budget Support Matrix. Given that the PRSC V matrix is a subset of the Donors' Joint Budget
Support Matrix, ministries are also involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of
PRSC V.

106.     This operation puts a special emphasis on effective statistics and M&E, as both are part
of selected triggers and prior actions. As a result, the importance of these aspects has been
elevated to a high level in the proposed operation and has been an important issue during policy
dialogue with GOCV. Moreover, the remaining operations in the series will keep providing
support to strengthen national statistics and M&E.

107.     Since the preparation of the first PRSC series, the World Bank team has worked in close
collaboration with Government and budget support partners to ensure a high level of
accountability for the success of the PRSCs.

108.     The proposed new series will be included in AFTFP's Impact Evaluation Initiative,
which will provide additional information on the impact of the operation on growth and
productivity. This Initiative is a program of impact evaluation of private sector and finance
operations in the Africa Region recently initiated by AFTFP. Its goal is to generate knowledge
on the most successful interventions to stimulate growth and productivity as well as on
operational alternatives to improve finance and private sector development operations. The
inclusion of this PRSC series in the program will provide useful information on the impact of the
                                                 34
supported reforms on growth and productivity and how it compares with the impact of alternative
interventions in related projects in the region.

D.       FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

109.      Fiduciary aspects and strengthening the Government's own systems constitute a policy
area of this operation. The 2003 CFAA and the 2006 PER have identified and addressed the
main challenges of Cape Verde's public expenditure management and financial accountability
systems. An action plan focusing on the comprehensiveness and transparency of the budget and
financial accountability has been implemented with the support of the Netherlands, the EU and
the World Bank. The joint budget support missions, and PRSC series supervision and
preparation have contributed to keep GOCV focused in the issue of public financial management,
which has been improving steadily. Cape Verde's improvements in PFM have been identified by
the 2008 PEFA exercise and the latest joint budget support mission. The latter found that "Cape
Verde has made steady progress in improving the quality of its PFM, owing to the
implementation of a comprehensive reform program. These progresses have allowed correcting
the main weaknesses and reaching a new paradigm. This is reflected in the country's first PEFA
that showed A and B scores on 18 out of 28 indicators."

110.       IMF's most recent assessment of the Central Bank was carried out in 2008. The
assessment found that while the Central Bank has taken a number of steps to strengthen its
safeguard framework since the previous assessment (2002), there are significant outstanding
vulnerabilities, especially in the audit and control areas. Improvements to strengthen the
safeguard framework since the previous assessment included: (i) the development of an action
plan to implement IFRS for the fiscal year 2008; (ii) the development of reserves management
procedures; (iii) the introduction of an internal audit function; and (iv) the rotation of external
auditors. Notwithstanding these advancements, safeguard challenges remain. These are the need
to: (i) formally define the mandate of the Audit Committee; (ii) strengthen the newly established
internal audit function;21 and (iii) further enhancing financial statement transparency.22 The
Central Bank has agreed to adopt remedial actions.

E.       DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

111.     A single tranche credit of SDR 9.5 million (US$15 million equivalent) would be made
available to the Republic of Cape Verde upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for December
2009. The closing date of the operation would be June 30, 2010.

112.      The credit will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for development policy
lending. Once the credit becomes effective, the Government of Cape Verde will submit a
withdrawal application to IDA requesting that the proceeds of the credit be deposited in the BCV
into an account that forms part of the country's official foreign exchange reserves. The Recipient
shall ensure that upon the deposit of the credit into said account, an equivalent amount is credited
in the Recipient's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association and to

 21
    The internal audit function needs independence, qualified personnel, implementation of a risk based audit
 methodology and the introduction of tracking procedures for addressing external and internal audit
 recommendations.
 22
    Transparency should be enhanced by the conduction of external audits in accordance with International
 Standards on Auditing (ISA), the completion of the implementation of IFRS and, the publication of financial
 statements and notes in accordance with IFRS for FY2008.
                                                        35
finance management expenditures. The Recipient will report to the Bank on the amounts
deposited in the foreign currency account and credited to the budget management system.
Disbursement would not be linked to specific purchases. If the proceeds of the credit are used for
the ineligible purposes as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the
Recipient to refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to IDA promptly upon notice
from IDA. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

113.      Through the Ministry of Finance, the Recipient will: (i) report, within one week from
date of receipt, the exact sum received into the deposit account; (ii) ensure that all withdrawals
from the deposit account are for budgeted public expenditures, except for purposes such as
military expenditures or for other items on IDA's negative list; and (iii) provide to IDA evidence
that the ECV equivalent of the Credit proceeds were credited to the Consolidated Fund account
and disbursements from that account were for budgeted public expenditures. It is expected that
the TdC will provide IDA with its annual report on the public accounts to Parliament by the end
of the year following the execution of the budget.

F.       RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

114.     The following risks and risk mitigation strategies have been identified:
       (a)      Capacity. Budget support is an instrument that requires significant capacity to
                design and implement reforms and monitor their impacts. The reliance on
                national systems also raises capacity issues at all steps of the budget cycle. The
                limited number of technical staff and the high turnover of senior staff in several
                core ministries pose a problem. PRSC V mitigates this risk by supporting reforms
                to strengthen statistics, M&E and state modernization. Additionally, to address
                this risk in the short term, the budget support partners have made available a
                combination of capacity building and technical support. To mitigate this risk over
                the medium term, the Bank plans an operation that will provide such support in
                coordination with other donors.
        (b)     Fiscal risks. Accumulation of contingent liabilities could emerge if public or
                semi-public companies are not run efficiently, if the oil price is not passed-
                through to domestic price, and if municipalities continue accumulating arrears
                towards ELECTRA. ELECTRA is a major source of fiscal risks. The company is
                in a critical financial situation due to lack of investments, past tariff deficits and
                difficulties with billing collection. The PRSC series remains the main instrument
                that supports the dialogue on fiscal risks. This risk is mitigated by: (i) the
                inclusion in the proposed operation of the articulation of a time-bound action plan
                to reduce ELECTRA's arrears and, (ii) the upcoming Energy project which will
                focus on the sector financial sustainability.
        (c)     Impact of global crisis and upcoming elections. Budget deficit projections for
                2009 have increased given the deterioration in revenue performance (emerging
                from the economic slowdown) and increased capital expenditures (as a fiscal
                stimulus to compensate for lower private consumption and investment). The
                2010 draft budget law (not voted yet) and the revised MTEF suggest that fiscal
                policy will continue to be expansionary in 2010 and the following years (as
                indicated in the MTEF) due to a substantial increase in public investment (mostly
                directed to infrastructure). The projected fiscal deficit for 2010 is well above the
                historical levels. The MTFF (Medium Term Fiscal Framework) indicates that
                                                36
      capital expenditures in 2010 will reach CVE 30.7 billion while in 2008 it stood at
      CVE 16.8 billion. An analysis of the sustainability of the debt shows that while
      debt ratios to exports will remain low thanks to the long maturities and high
      service exports, borrowing needs to decelerate after 2011 to keep risk of debt
      distress low. The presidential elections pose an additional set of risks, as the fiscal
      situation requires careful management. Approaching the elections, the
      government will have to resist to pressures for additional spending, especially
      recurrent expenditures, given the tight fiscal situation. Cape Verde is moderately
      exposed to the effects of the current financial crisis, but given the high degree of
      integration of the Cape Verdean economy with the rest of the world, especially
      with the Euro area, it is inevitable to be hit by the adverse shocks. Nevertheless,
      the country is relatively well prepared to deal with the crisis as it has built some
      fiscal space in recent years and has more institutional capacity than most African
      nations. Cape Verde will face lower economic growth, but it is weathering the
      crisis relatively well and the onshore financial sector is broadly sound. Mitigation
      of risks of fiscal slippage with the elections will require continuous fiscal
      discipline. The increased transparency associated with PFM reforms supported by
      the PRSC program, including previous operations and the current series will help
      mitigate fiscal risks.
(d)   Slowing reform program. While Cape Verde has made steady progress in
      reforms, as broadly described in this document, experience elsewhere shows that
      the pace of reforms to the business environment is not uniform, being often
      affected by economic and political cycles. The possibility of a slowdown in the
      development of a more encouraging investment climate in the country cannot be
      ruled out given that the country will keep facing the impacts of the global crisis
      and there will be elections in early 2011. This includes the possibility of a slow
      pace of reforms in the energy sector, which has experienced reform setbacks in the
      past. The risk of a slowing reform program is mitigated by the strong commitment
      shown by the Government so far to these reforms, the broad support these reforms
      have in the political spectrum and by the key role played by these reforms to
      accelerate and sustain economic growth.




                                       37
            ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Letter of Development Policy




                 38
39
40
41
42
43
                                                  ANNEX 2A: New PRSC Series Program Matrix23
PRSP Policy        Program                Actions for        Actions for      Actions for PRSC VII         Results        Base line     2009         2010         2011
Area               Objectives              PRSC V             PRSC VI                  2011              Framework
                                             2009               2010
Good
Governance
Macroeconomic      Reduce and          Reduction of       Reduction of                                  Amount of         40          16         0           0
Stability          control             outstanding        arrears to zero.                              Government
                   Government          public arrears                                                   arrears
                   liabilities         (as measured in                                                  towards its
                   including           2005) to 16%                                                     suppliers,
                   contingent ones.    of original                                                      agencies and
                                       stock.                                                           municipalities.        100         100    tbd< 100       tbd<100
                                                          Completion of       Satisfactory
                                                          time-bound          implementation of the     Amount of
                                                          action plan to      plan to clear arrears     arrears of
                                                          clear arrears of    of Electra.               ELECTRA
                                                          ELECTRA to                                    towards its
                                                          suppliers within                              suppliers
                                                          4 years
                                                          maximum.

PFM: External      Improve             Audit of: (i)      Audit of: (i)       Audit of (i) 2009 State   Number of         3 years     3 years    2 years      2 years
Controls           timeliness of       State General      2007 and 2008       Accounts and (ii)         years between
                   audits of State     Accounts for       State Accounts      accounts of new           executed year
                   accounts by         2006 and (ii)      and (ii) accounts   municipalities and        budget and
                   Tribunal das        accounts of key    of new              embassies submitted       completion of
                   Contas and          municipalities     municipalities,     to Parliament.            audits.
                   enhance quality     and embassies      embassies and
                   of audits           submitted to       institutes
                                       Parliament.        submitted to
                                                          Parliament.
                                       Submit to the
                                       Parliament the
                                       project of Law

23
  In the column "Actions for PRSC-V 2009", prior actions appear in bold. In the column "Actions for PRSC VI 2010" proposed triggers for PRSC-VI appear in bold. In
the column "Actions for PRSC VII 2011" indicative triggers for PRSC VII appear in bold.

                                                                               44
PRSP Policy            Program               Actions for         Actions for      Actions for PRSC VII         Results        Base line       2009       2010       2011
Area                   Objectives              PRSC V             PRSC VI                  2011              Framework
                                                  2009              2010
                                           on the
                                           functioning of
                                           the tribunal of
                                           account.
                                           Submit to the
                                           Parliament the
                                           project of law
                                           on the statute of
                                           the personnel of
                                           the Tribunal of
                                           account.

Procurement            Improve             Approval by         The new Public     Compliance reviews of      % of non        n.a.24       n.a.       10         0
                       transparency and    Council of          Procurement        procurement               complying
                       efficiency of       Ministers of        Directorate for    procedures for all line   sole source
                       public              new                 controlling        ministries.               contracts.
                       procurement         regulations         UGAs' activities
                       procedures.         accompanying        is operational
                                           the new Public      within the
                                           Procurement         DGPE.
                                           Law.




Government             Rationalize State   At least 5          Implementation     Implementation of         Number of        0            1          2          3
Modernization          structures for a    ministries          of restructuring   restructuring             research
                       cost efficient      restructured        recommendations    recommendations           functions
                       Government.         according to        continued.         continued.                transferred to

24
     Actions supported by this PRSC series will allow the government to properly measure the proportion of non complying sole source contracts.

                                                                                   45
PRSP Policy      Program                Actions for         Actions for     Actions for PRSC VII          Results       Base line       2009       2010           2011
Area             Objectives               PRSC V             PRSC VI                 2011               Framework
                                            2009               2010
                                      plan.                                                            university.

                                                                                                       Number of        4           9            10         25
                                                                                                       DGPOG
                                                                                                       created and
                 Strengthen                                                                            staffed.
                 decentralization     At least 11         At least 15       17 municipalities use
                 and municipal        municipalities      municipalities    SIM.                       Number of
                 management           use Municipal       use SIM.                                     municipalities
                 capacity.            Information                                                      producing        3           9            12         17
                                      System (SIM).                                                    timely
                 Promote merit                                                                         accounts.
                 based civil          Decree on           New Career and    Senior career service
                 service and          mobility            Salary System     established.               Steps towards
                 broaden mobility     approved by         (PCCS)                                       Implementatio
                 options within       Council of          approved by                                  n of the new     Not                      PCCS       PCCS
                 and outside          Ministers.          Council of                                   career system    implement                approved   implemented
                 Government.                              Ministers.                                                    ed

Statistics and   Establish the new    Promulgation        Completion of     Statistical Action         % of
M&E              national             of Statistical      the platform      Plan implemented.          household        40          80           100        100
                 statistical system   Law.                linking INE                                  survey data
                 and implement                            data and                                     available in
                 the statistical                          National M&E                                 Statline
                 action plan                              system.                                      (national data
                 (2007-2010).                                                                          website)


                 Implement the        All 2008            80% of all        90% of all active          % of project
                 new national         projects and                                                                      0           All 2008     80% of     90% of all
                                                          active projects   projects & programs        and program
                 M&E system.          programs'                                                                                     projects     all        projects and
                                                          and programs'     outputs and outcome        for which
                                      output                                                                                        and          projects   programs
                                                          output            indicators integrated      indicators are
                                      indicators                                                                                    programs     and        with output
                                                          indicators        and tracked in the         tracked by the
                                      integrated in the                                                                                with      programs   and outcome
                                                          integrated and    database of the national   M&E system.
                                      database of the                                                                                 output         with   indicators
                                                          tracked in the    M&E system.
                                      national M&E        database of the                                                           indicators     output


                                                                             46
PRSP Policy       Program                Actions for         Actions for    Actions for PRSC VII        Results       Base line    2009     2010             2011
Area              Objectives               PRSC V             PRSC VI                2011             Framework
                                            2009                2010
                                       system.            national M&E                                                                    indicators
                                                          system.




Human Capital
Enhancement
Vocational        To improve the       Ministerial        New operating     Satisfactory             % of TSF         0           >75     >75          >75
Training          qualification of     decision to re-    procedures        implementation of the    funds used for
                  workforce to         activate and       adopted for the   TVET Action Plan,        TVET
                  meet labor           improve the        TSF.              with private sector      delivery.
                  market demand.       TSF.                                 participation.

Competitiveness
Trade             Better integration   Satisfactory       Revised           Preparation of a new     Trade            107         107     110          110
                  of Cape Verde in     progress in the    Investment code   draft law on             openness
                  international        implementation     consistent with   intellectual property.   indicator in %
                  trade.               of the action      WTO                                        of GDP
                                       plan to adapt      agreement in
                                       procedures and     draft.
                                       legislation to
                                       WTO rules as
                                       evidenced by: i)
                                       approval of the
                                       Ecological Tax
                                       bill by the


                                                                             47
PRSP Policy        Program                Actions for         Actions for       Actions for PRSC VII        Results       Base line    2009    2010        2011
Area               Objectives               PRSC V             PRSC VI                   2011             Framework
                                             2009                2010
                                       Council of
                                       Ministers; and
                                       ii) Approval by
                                       Council of
                                       Ministers of
                                       customs code
                                       consistent with
                                       the WTO
                                       agreement.


Tax System         Improvement in       Across the                              Draft law revising tax   Marginal Tax
                   the investment       board                                   incentives submitted     Rates for       30           25      25      25
                   climate through      reduction in                            to Council of            businesses.
                   tax reduction and    corporate taxes                         Ministers for
                   overhaul of tax      for businesses                          approval.
                   incentives.          approved by
                                        Council of
                                        Ministers.
Financial Sector   Strengthen          2007               Bank                 IFRS accounting      Weighted average     9.9          10      11      11
                   stability of the    Microfinance       supervision          norms applied to     (by assets) of       (includes
                   financial sector.   Law revised to     legal framework      banks and            capital adequacy     only
                                       limit deposit      revised to give      insurance            ratio (Basel 1) of   onshore
                                       taking.            BCV more             companies.           the entire system    banks)
                                                          authority.                                in %.
                                       Reduction of
                                       exposure of        IFI law revised to
                                       offshore           align its
                                       banking with       regulatory
                                       the closure of     regime with
                                       a                  onshore system.
                                       noncompliant
                                       offshore
                                       institution.




                                                                                  48
PRSP Policy      Program                  Actions for        Actions for       Actions for PRSC VII          Results            Base line       2009        2010         2011
Area             Objectives                PRSC V             PRSC VI                   2011               Framework
                                             2009               2010
Business         Improve               House of          New                 Implementation of        Number of days to            52           24     24          24
Climate          regulatory            Citizen           bankruptcy law      actions to lower the     open a business.
                 environment.          operational       drafted.            cost of property
                                       with 4                                registration.            Cost of property
                                       services.                                                      registration.
                                                                                                                                   7.7          7.7    7.7          7.0


Infrastructure
Land             Transparent rules     Cadastre Law      All islands         Finalization and         Number of EROT        0               3          4           4
Management       for land              approved and      development         approval of a            and PDM
                 allocation.           task force        plans (EROTs)       national strategic       homologated.
                                       appointed to      completed and       development plan.
                                       operationalize    approved by
                                       it.               GOCV.                                                              1               5          13          20

Energy           Restore financial     Preparation       Advancement         Advancement              Debt service          0.3             0.75       1           1.1
                 viability of the      of a medium       toward              toward                   coverage ratio of                                            minimum
                 electricity sector.   term              implementation      implementation of        ELECTRA.
                                       development       of the medium       the medium term
                                       strategy for      term                development              Technical and non     26.5                28           24    <20
                 Increase
                                       the electricity   development         strategy as              technical losses as
                 generation
                                       sector.           strategy, as        evidenced by:            % of MGW
                 capacity,
                                                         evidenced by: i)    i) definition and        generation.
                 including
                                                         definition of       implementation of
                 renewable
                                                         Electra             a mechanism to
                 energy.
                                                         restructuring,      settle public
                                                         including           customers
                                                         private sector      electricity bills; ii)
                                                         participation       adoption of a new
                                                         options and         tariff mechanism
                                                         legal and           consistent with the
                                                         regulatory          restructured
                                                         implications; ii)   Electra.
                                                         Implementation
                                                         by Electra of


                                                                                49
PRSP Policy       Program              Actions for        Actions for      Actions for PRSC VII          Results     Base line    2009     2010         2011
Area              Objectives            PRSC V             PRSC VI                  2011               Framework
                                          2009               2010
                                                     measures to
                                                     improve
                                                     operational and
                                                     commercial
                                                     performance.
Transport         Increase                           Improvement in       Improvement in          Direct operating   NA          NA      -5%        -5%
                  operational                        TACV financial       TACV financial          costs (excluding                       (over      (over
                  efficiency of air                  sustainability       sustainability          fuel)                                  previous   previous
                  transport                          through: (i)         through: (i)                                                   year)      year)
                  company                            reduction of         reduction of direct     Unit revenues
                                                     direct operating     operating costs
                                                     costs (excluding     (excluding fuel) per                       NA          NA
                                                     fuel) per            passenger seat
                                                     passenger seat       kilometer offered;                                             5% (over
                                                     kilometer            and, (ii) increase of                                          previous   5% (over
                                                     offered; and, (ii)   unit revenues (as                                              year)      previous
                                                     increase of unit     measured by                                                               year)
                                                     revenues (as         passenger seat
                                                     measured by          kilometer offered).
                                                     passenger seat
                                                     kilometer
                                                     offered).

Social Cohesion
Efficiency of     Improve                                                 Approval by the         Annual reports                           Draft
Government        targeting of                                            Council of              published.                              report    First report
Poverty           social actions via                                      Ministers of a                                                 prepared    published
Reduction         pilot programs.                                         strategy for the
Activities                                                                implementation of
                                                                          new instruments
                                                                          for targeted safety
                                                                          net.




                                                                             50
                                     ANNEX 2B: Joint General Budget Support Matrix for the Government of Cape Verde


                                                                                                                            Assessment
           Themes               Nº                                   Objectives
                                                                                                               2008
                                                                                                                        2009          2010        2011           Follow-up
                                                                                                              (Base)

Macro-economic                  1    Stability                                                                     +                                              MoFPA

Poverty reduction               2    PRSP 1 / PSRP2 implementation                                                 +                                              MoFPA

Public finance management       3    progress made in implementing reforms                                         +                                              MoFPA




Medium Term                             Policy Measures and Actions                                                            Benchmarks                 Follow-up
                                                                                                               Base
 Objectives/        Nº                                                                       Indicators                                                  (responsible
                              2009                   2010                    2011                              2008     2009          2010       2011       entity)
                                                                        Pillar 1 Good Governance
Macro-                   Implementation      Implementation of                            Outstanding         40       16         0          0           MoFPA
economic:                of the arrears      the arrears clearance                        stock of
reduce and               clearance plan      plan concluded                               government
control                                                                                   arrears (%)
liabilities
including
contingent ones          Completion of a     Implementation of        Implementation                           100      100           tbd<   tbd<10
                         time-bound          the Electra's            of the Electra's    Outstanding                                  100      0
                         action plan to      suppliers arrears        suppliers arrears   stock of
                         clear Electra's     clearance plan           clearance plan      Electra's arrears
                         arrears with                                                     towards
                         suppliers within                                                 suppliers (%)
                         4 years max




                                                                                          51
Medium Term                              Policy Measures and Actions                                                               Benchmarks              Follow-up
                                                                                                                 Base
 Objectives/      Nº                                                                        Indicators                                                    (responsible
                            2009                    2010                  2011                                   2008       2009         2010    2011        entity)



Budget
planning and
allocation
Use medium             Elaboration of       Elaboration of          Elaboration of       MTFF submitted      yes        yes          yes        Yes       MoFPA /
term Fiscal            the 2010-2012        2011-2013               2012-2014            to Parliament                                                    Strategic
Framework              framework            framework               framework            with Budget Law                                                  Study
(MTFF)                                                                                                                                                    Directorate


Broaden use of         4 ministries         8 ministries prepare    All (15)             Number of           3          >5           >9         15        General
Medium Term            prepare MTEF         MTEF 2011/2013          ministries prepare   Specialized                                                      Budget
Expenditures           for 2010/2012                                MTEF for 2012-       MTEF units                                                       Directorate
Framework                                                           2014                 created                                                          MoFPA
                                                                                                             2          4            8          15
(MTEF)                                                                                   Number of
                                                                                         sectors with
                                                                                         MTEFs
Budget                 Increase access      Adoption of accrual                          % of government
execution:             of budget units      accounting: part of                          budget units        80%        90%          100%       100%      MoFPA
broaden use of         to SIGOF             State assets                                 having access to
integrated                                  accounted on an                              SIGOF
system                                      accrual basis in Sate
                                            Accounts
Internal                                    Reinforcement of                             Number of audit
controls:                                   the IGF capacities                           training realized       39          39          42          45       IGF
increase                                    (training and                                by the IGF
capacity of IGF                             budget)                                      Training realized
to perform                                                                               by IGF for
more controls                                                                            others entitie
External               Audited State        Audit of: (i) 2007      Audit of : (i)       Timeliness of       3 years    2 years      1 year     1 year    Tribunal das
controls:              General              and 2008 State          2009 State           audits of State                                                  Contas
improve                Accounts for         Accounts and, (ii)      Accounts and ,       accounts


                                                                                         52
Medium Term                            Policy Measures and Actions                                               Benchmarks           Follow-up
                                                                                                   Base
 Objectives/      Nº                                                                  Indicators                                     (responsible
                             2009                  2010                 2011                       2008   2009      2010      2011      entity)
timeliness of          2006. Audited       accounts of new        (ii) accounts of
audits of state        accounts of key     municipalities,        new
accounts by            Municipalities      embassies and          municipalities
Tribunal das           and Embassies       institutes submitted   and embassies
Contas                 submitted to        to Parliament          submitted to
                       Parliament                                 Parliament
                       Submit to the
                       Parliament the
                       project of Law
                       on the
                       functioning of
                       the tribunal of
                       account.
                       Submit to the
                       Parliament the
                       project of law
                       on the statute of
                       the personnel of
                       the Tribunal of
                       account.




                                                                                     53
Medium Term                            Policy Measures and Actions                                                               Benchmarks               Follow-up
                                                                                                               Base
 Objectives/     Nº                                                                       Indicators                                                     (responsible
                           2009                  2010                  2011                                    2008       2009      2010          2011      entity)
National              Publication of      Compliance Reviews     Continue the          % of non            n.a.       n.a.         10         0          ARAP
public                new regulations     of procurement         compliance            complying sole
procurement                               procedures for at      reviews for at        source contracts
system:                                   least 3 ministries:    least 5 ministries:   awarded
improve                                   Finance, Health, and   3 previous +
transparency                              Transport /            Education and 1
and efficiency                            Equipment              tbd



                      ARAP & UGAs
                      operational in      National Standard
                      line ministries     Bidding Documents
                      i.e. staff          approved
                      appointed, &
                      regulations
                      approved.
                                          Develop, adopt, and,   Handle                % of complaints     0          0            50         100        ARAP
                                          initiate               complaints in a       handled in
                                          implementation of a    transparent and       compliance with
                                          national strategy on   efficient manner      new regulation
                                          capacity building in                         and published
                                          public procurement
                                          The public             Set up the            Average             10             10            8          6     ARAP/UGA
                                          procurement website    integrated public     procurement
                                          is operational and     procurement MIS       processing time
                                          publicly accessible    and M&E System        in months
                                                                 to evaluate
                                                                 performance
National              Completion of       Implementation of      Implementation        Capacity            0          Plan                               DGP
Monitoring            M&E and RBM         the training plan      of training plan      building plan for              approve                            DGPOGs/GE
and                   training Needs                                                   in RBM and                     d                                  Ps
Evaluation            Assessment                                                       M&E                                                               INE
System
                                                                                                                                                         NOSI
operational           Elaboration of

                                                                                       54
Medium Term                             Policy Measures and Actions                                                             Benchmarks              Follow-up
                                                                                                              Base
 Objectives/      Nº                                                                     Indicators                                                    (responsible
                             2009                 2010                  2011                                  2008     2009        2010       2011        entity)
                       strategic plan      Implementation of      Implementation                               8           12     10         10
                       for M&E and         the strategic plan     of the strategic    Number of Staff
                       RBM                                        plan                trained in M&E


                        All 2008           80% of all active      90% of all active   % of project &      0           All         80% of     90% of    DGP
                       projects &          projects & programs    projects &          programs with                   2008        all        all       DGPOGs/GE
                       programs            outputs indicators     programs outputs    measured output                 projects    project    project   Ps
                       outputs             integrated and         and outcome         and outcome                     and         s and      s and     INE
                       indicators          tracked in the         indicators          indicators in the               progra      progra     progra
                                                                                                                                                       NOSI
                       integrated in the   database of the        integrated and      M&E database                    ms with     ms         ms
                       database of the     national M&E           tracked in the                                      output      with       with
                       national M&E        system                 database of the                                     indicato    output     output
                       system                                     national M&E                                        rs          indicat    and
                                                                  system                                                          ors        outcom
                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                             indicat
                                                                                                                                             ors
Statistical            Publication in      New organigram at      Assess              New status for      Statistic   Statistic   New        Agend     MOF/INE
System:                Official Gazette    INE approved           implementation      Statisticians       al law      al law      organig    a 2007-
establish a new        of Statistical                             of 2007-2010                            approve     promul      ram at      2010
improved               Law                                        action plan                             d           gated       INE in     adopte
national                                                                                                                          place         d
statistical
system


                       QUIBB 2007          Completion of                              % of QUIBB          40%         80           100        100      INE/NOSI
                       data through        platform linking INE                       data in Statline
                       STATLINE (ntl.      data to ntl. M&E
                       Stat. data          System
                       website)




                                                                                      55
Medium Term                               Policy Measures and Actions                                                                Benchmarks               Follow-up
                                                                                                                   Base
 Objectives/       Nº                                                                        Indicators                                                      (responsible
                              2009                   2010                  2011                                    2008       2009         2010       2011      entity)
                                             Completion of
                                             Tourists satisfaction
                                             survey
                                             Compilation of          Completion of :      % of Surveys         n.a.       100              100        100    INE /
                                             administrative and      Informal Sector      Data on stateline                                                  sectoral
                                             private sector data     Survey;                                                                                 ministries
                                             on tourism and          Population
                                             employment              Census,
                                                                     Employment and
                                                                     Tourism statistics


State                   5 ministries          Implementation of      Implementation       Research             0          1            2          3
modernization           restructured         restructuring           of restructuring     functions in
Rationalize             as reflected in      recommendations         recommendations      three Institutions
State Structures        the 2009 State       continued               continued            transferred to
for a more cost-        Budget                                                            University of
                                                                                          Cape Verde                                                         UCRE
efficient and
policy oriented                                                                                                n.a        n.a
public                                                                                    DGPOG                                        10         25
administration                                                                            positions
                                                                                          effectively
                                                                                          staffed

Decentralization        At least 14          17 Municipalities       22 municipalities    Number of            3          9            12         17         NOSI-DGAL
Strengthening           municipalities       connected to SIM        connected to         municipalities
of municipal            connected to         including training      SIM including        producing timely
management              Municipal                                    training             accounts
capacity                Information
                        System (SIM)
                        including
                        training




                                                                                          56
Medium Term                              Policy Measures and Actions                                                             Benchmarks             Follow-up
                                                                                                             Base
 Objectives/       Nº                                                                     Indicators                                                   (responsible
                             2009                  2010                   2011                               2008      2009         2010       2011       entity)
Civil service                               Approval by the        Implementation                                                  Approv     Imple    UCRE
reform:                                     Council of Ministers   of the New                                                      ed         mented
promote a                                   of the New Career      Career and Salary                                               PCCS       PCCS
merit-based                                 and Salary System      System (PCCS)
civil service                               (PCCS)
and broaden
mobility                Approval by the                                                Staff turnover in   n.a.       n.a.
options within          Council of                                                     senior positions
and outside.            Ministers of the                                               (non-mobility) in                           -5         -10
                        decree on                                                      %
                        mobility
                                                                       Pillar 2 Human Capital
Improve quality         Reduce number                                                  % of primary        82         84           86         88       GEP /
of Primary              of unqualified                                                 school teachers                                                 Ministry of
school                  teachers                                                       with pedagogical                                                Education
                                                                                       training
                        Strengthen                                                     qualification
                        pedagogic
                        monitoring                                                     % of drop out in
Improve                                                                                                    8.2             8.1          8.0     7.9
                                                                                       secondary school
efficiency in
Secondary               Review
school                  curriculum for
                        each cycle
Technical               Coordinate                                                     % of secondary                                                  GEP /
education:              curriculum with                                                school pupils            3.1        3.2          3.3   3.4      Ministry of
improve access          vocational                                                     proceeding to                                                   Education
                        training                                                       technical school
Technical and           Conduct studies                                                Number of sector                                                Ministries of
Vocational              to estimate                                                    studies                    0        2            1              Labor and
Education and           future labor                                                   completed                                                       Vocational
Training                demand and                                                                                                                     Training, of
(TVET):                 TVET training                                                                                                                  Education ,
improve                 needs in various                                                                                                               of Finance
qualification of        sectors

                                                                                       57
Medium Term                              Policy Measures and Actions                                                                Benchmarks               Follow-up
                                                                                                                  Base
 Objectives/      Nº                                                                        Indicators                                                      (responsible
                             2009                   2010                   2011                                   2008       2009         2010       2011      entity)
work force to
meet labor
market demand


                       Re-activate                                                       Implementation       n.a.           >75          >75        >75    Ministries of
                       platforms                                                         rate (%) of                                                        Labor and
                       matching TVET                                                     annual Centro de                                                   Vocational
                       supply and                                                        Emprego plans at                                                   Training, of
                       demand at                                                         Mindelo and                                                        Education ,
                       island level                                                      Praia                                                              of Finance

                       Ministerial          Implement new                                % of TSF funds       0          >75          >75        >75        Ministries of
                       decision to re-      operating procedures                         used for TVET                                                      Labor and
                       activate and         for Training Support                         delivery                                                           Vocational
                       improve the          Fund (TSF)                                                                                                      Training, of
                       TSF                                                                                                                                  Education ,
                                                                                                                                                            of Finance
                                                                        Pillar 3 Competitiveness
Better                 New customs          Revised Investment       New Law on           Trade openness      107        107          110        110        Ministry of
integration of         code consistent      code consistent with     intellectual         i.e. (import +                                                    Economy
CV in                  with WTO             WTO agreement in         property in draft    export of goods +                                                 Competitiven
International          agreement            draft                                         service credit +                                                  ess and
trade:                 approved by                                                        debit ) / GDP in                                                  Growth
                       Council of                                                         percent                                                           (MECC)
                       Ministers
Tourism:               Master plan          Baseline for all local   New revised         Number of            0          5            6          6          MECC
Comprehensive          approved by          content indicators       legislation         programs offered
and sustainable        Council of                                    approved for        by the center
strategy with          Ministers                                     Tourism sector.
                                            Hotel and Tourism
increased local                             training center fully
content                                     operational
                                            Core tourism and
                                            investment

                                                                                         58
Medium Term                            Policy Measures and Actions                                                             Benchmarks            Follow-up
                                                                                                          Base
 Objectives/      Nº                                                                     Indicators                                                 (responsible
                             2009                   2010                 2011                             2008       2009         2010       2011      entity)
                                            indicators
                                            established



Financial              2007                 IFI legal framework    IFRS accounting                       9.9        10           11         11      Banco de
Sector:                Microfinance         revised to align its   norms applied to                      (include                                   Cape Verde
strengthen             Law revised to       regulatory regime      banks and          Weighted           s only                                     (Central
stability              clarify limitation   with onshore system    insurance          average (by        onshore                                    Bank)
                       to deposit taking                           companies          assets) Capital    banks)
                                            Bank supervision                          Adequacy Ratio
                       Closure of           legal framework                           (Basel 1) of the
                       offshore bank        revised to give BCV                       entire system in
                       that failed to       more authority                            %
                       comply with
                       legislation
Tax:                   Across the           Tax incentive law      Law submitted to                                                                 Ministry of
Improvement in         board reduction      approved by the        Parliament         Corporate tax      30         25           25         25      Finance and
the investment         in the taxes for     Council of Ministers                      rates for                                                     MECC
climate through        businesses                                                     businesses
tax reduction          implemented
and overhaul of
tax incentives
Business               House of citizen     New Bankruptcy law     Actions to lower   Number of days          52         24      24          24     MREDN
climate:               fully operational    drafted                the cost of        to open a
Improve govt                                                       property           business
services                                                           registration                            600      630          630         661
                                                                   implemented        Number of
                                                                                      businesses
                                                                                      created through
                                                                                      Casa do Cidadao
                                                                                                              7.7        7.7     7.7          7.0
                                                                                      Cost to register
                                                                                      property (% of
                                                                                      property value)



                                                                                      59
Medium Term                             Policy Measures and Actions                                                               Benchmarks               Follow-up
                                                                                                                Base
 Objectives/       Nº                                                                      Indicators                                                     (responsible
                              2009                   2010                 2011                                  2008       2009         2010       2011      entity)
                                                                       Pillar 4 Infrastructure
Land                    Cadastre Law         All Islands             National           Nb. of EROT         0          3            4          4          MDHOT/DG
management:             approved and         development plans       Strategic          completed and                                                     OTH and
Improve land            task force           (EROTs) completed       Development        approved / 4                                                      municipal
planning (use           appointed to         and approved by         plan for Cape                                                                        chambers
policy)                 operationalize it,   GOCV                    Verde completed
                                                                     and approved                           1          5            13              20
                                                                                        Nb. of PDM
                                                                                        completed and
                                                                                        approved / 22
Water:                  Extend network       Reduce connection                          % of households     49.5       51.8         53         55         Ministry of
improve                 to poor              fees for the poor                          in Praia,                                                         Infrastructure
households              neighborhoods                                                   Mindelo,                                                          and
access to public                                                                        Boavista and Sal                                                  Transport,
system                                                                                  connected to the                                                  INGRH,
                                                                                        public water                                                      CAN
                                                                                        provision system

                                             Reduce production                          Additional M3             0         0       +5,000     +10,00     Electra &
                                             costs                                      per day                                                  0        ARE

                                             Increase capacity for
                                             desalinization
Sanitation:                                  Reduce connection                          % of households                                                   Ministry of
improve                                      fee for the poor.                          connected to the                                                  Infrastructure
households                                                                              public sanitation       15         16.5          18         19    and
access to public                                                                        system                                                            Transport,
system                                                                                                                                                    Ministry of
                                                                                                                                                          Environment
Energy:                 Approval by          Advancement             Advancement        Debt service        0.3        0.75         1          1.4
                        Council of           toward                  toward             coverage ratio of                                      minim
                        Ministers sector     implementation of       implementation     Electra                                                um
Restore
                        development          the medium term         of the medium
financial
                        medium term          development             term               Technical and           30         28            24         20    ARE /
viability of the

                                                                                        60
Medium Term                             Policy Measures and Actions                                                             Benchmarks              Follow-up
                                                                                                            Base
 Objectives/     Nº                                                                        Indicators                                                  (responsible
                            2009                   2010                   2011                              2008       2009        2010       2011        entity)
electricity           strategy             strategy, as            development          non technical                                                  MECC
sector and                                 evidenced by: i)        strategy as          losses as % of
improve sector                             definition of Electra   evidenced by:        MGW generation
governance                                 restructuring,          i) definition and
                                           including private       implementation
                                           sector participation    of a mechanism       Generation           73.9       86          100        120
                                           options and legal and   to settle public     capacity in MW
                                           regulatory              customers
                                           implications; ii)       electricity bills;   % of renewal                                                   ARE /
                                           Implementation by       ii) adoption of a    energy                3          3           3         18      MECC
                                           Electra of measures     new tariff
                                           to improve              mechanism
                                           operational and         consistent with
                                           commercial              the restructured
                                           performance.            Electra.


Environmental
Management
                                                                                                                                                       PANA II
Satisfactory                                                                                               Positive   Positive    Positiv    Positiv   Annual
implementation                                                                          Assessment of
                      Iimplementation      Implementation of       Implementation                          assessm    assessm     e          e         Implementatio
of the                                                                                  the annual                                                     n Report and
                      of PANA II           PANA II                 of PANA II                              ent by     ent by      assess     assess
government's                                                                            implementation                                                 Minutes of
                                                                                                           CNA        CNA         ment       ment
environment                                                                             report of PANA                                                 CNA meeting
                                                                                                                                  by         by
policy (PANA                                                                            II by the CNA
                                                                                                                                  CNA        CNA
II)

Improve                                                                                 Average mean of                           Averag     Averag
                                                                                                           Average    Averag                           Assessment
sectoral              See sector           See sector specific     See sector           good governance                           e equal    e equal
                                                                                                           equal or   e equal                          by budget
governance            specific matrix      matrix                  specific matrix      criteria (Cf.                             or         or
                                                                                                           higher     or                               support
                                                                                        sectoral matrix)   than       higher      higher     higher    partners
                                                                                                           60%        than        than       than      during joint
                                                                                                                      60%         60%        60%       missions




                                                                                        61
Medium Term                               Policy Measures and Actions                                                          Benchmarks              Follow-up
                                                                                                           Base
 Objectives/       Nº                                                                    Indicators                                                   (responsible
                             2009                    2010                2011                              2008       2009        2010       2011        entity)
Improve                 See sector           See sector specific   See sector         Average mean of     Average                Averag     Averag
environmental           specific matrix      matrix                specific matrix    environment         equal or   Averag      e equal    e equal
conditions                                                                            performance         higher     e equal     or         or
                                                                                      criteria (Cf.       than       or          higher     higher
                                                                                      sectoral budget     60%        higher      than       than
                                                                                      support matrix)                than        60%        60%
                                                                                                                     60%




                                                                     Pillar 5 Social Cohesion
Targeting of
social actions:                              Household surveys     Strategy for       Annual reports      n.a           -         Draft       First   Directorate
                                             launched:             implementation     on the                                      report     report   General of
New generation                               - perception of       of new             Effectiveness and                          prepare    publish   Planning
of social                                    existing program      generation of      Targeting                                     d          ed     (MF)
programs                                                           targeted safety    performance of
                                             - attitude towards
articulated and                                                    net approved by    social policies
                                             targeting
tested ready for                                                   the Council of     published
implementation                                                     Ministers
                                             Pilot program:
                                             conditional cash
                                             transfer to improve   Evaluation of      Completion rate
                                             the transition from   performance of                                                            50.0     NE
                                                                                      of 3rd year of      39.9
                                             primary level to      the targeting      secondary school
                                             secondary in the      systems.           in poorest
                                             education system.                        quintile

                                                                                      62
Medium Term                           Policy Measures and Actions                                                             Benchmarks            Follow-up
                                                                                                               Base
 Objectives/     Nº                                                                       Indicators                                               (responsible
                            2009                  2010                  2011                                   2008    2009      2010       2011      entity)
                                                                                       (% of students
                                                                                       aged 16-18
                                                                                       completing the
                                                                                       grade)

Support to            Implement           Implement GPSRPII       Implement                                78%        >80%      >82%       >85%    Directorate
priority              GPSRPII             priorities in 2010      GPSRPII                                                                          General of
sectors               priorities in       budget                  priorities in 2011                                                               Planning
                      2009 budget                                 budget               Education budget                                            (MF)
Education                                                                              execution rate
                                                                                       (revenues funded
                                                                                       investments)




Health:                                   Implement GPSRPII       Implement                                70%        >75%      >78%       >80%    Directorate
                      Implement           priorities in 2010      GPSRPII              Health budget
implement             GPSRPII                                                          execution rate                                              General of
Abuja accords                             budget                  priorities in 2011                                                               Planning
                      priorities in                               budget               (revenues funded
                      2009 budget                                                      investments)                                                (MF)

Protect               Establishment of    Provide financial       Provide financial    Nb. of vulnerable   628        700       800        900     Ministry of
vulnerable            the Social          resources to the fund   resources to the     people housed or                                            Housing,
people:               Housing                                     fund                 benefitting from                                            IFH
                      Promotion Fund                                                   housing                                                     Municipalitie
Provide                                                                                rehabilitation                                              s
housing
                                                                                                                                                   SHP Fund
Provide access        Establishing and    Measure tbd that will                        Nb. of legal        7          11        11         11      Ministry of
to basic legal        rehabilitation of   ensure sustainability                        centers operating                                           Justice / PIU
advice in the         legal centers       of legal centers
most pressing         ensuring broad                                                   Nb. of                  150     >200      >200       >200
legal issues          coverage            Data collection
                                                                                       counseling per
                                          system established
                                                                                       legal center




                                                                                       63
                              ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE


            Cape Verde--Assessment Letter for Development Partners
                                           OCTOBER 22, 2009


This letter provides a preliminary assessment of Cape Verde's macroeconomic conditions and
outlook, based on information available through mid-October 2009. An IMF team visited
Cape Verde during September 23­October 1, 2009 for the seventh review under the Policy
Support Instrument (PSI), which staff expects to take to the IMF Board in December 2009.25
Cape Verde has been weathering the global economic crisis well from a position of strength.
In recent years, the country built sizeable buffers in the form of increased international
reserves and a sharp decline in domestic debt. Policy implementation under the PSI-
supported program continues to be strong: all end-June 2009 assessment criteria were met.
The authorities have indicated that they will seek a successor three-year PSI in 2010.

Recent economic developments

Growth in 2009 has been stronger than expected and there are early signs of a recovery.
Despite a slowdown in tourism flows and a steep decline in FDI flows in the first part of
2009, growth has been holding up well. Real GDP growth for 2009 is currently projected at
about 4 percent, slightly higher than the 3½ percent projected at the time of the 6th PSI review.
An expansion of the public investment program is supporting economic activity, foreign
direct investment has stabilized, and construction on several private investment projects has
resumed. The recovery should continue in 2010, but growth over the next few years would
remain moderate as there are no new large foreign direct investment projects in the pipeline.
Inflation dropped to -0.6 percent in August 2009 and should remain low thanks to the outlook
for a good harvest, and low food and energy import prices.

Gross international reserves remains at comfortable levels. After declining to 3.8 months
of imports as a result of the global financial crisis, gross international have stabilized and are
expected remain between 3½­4 months of imports owing in part to the recent SDR allocation
by the IMF and expected new external loans. The impact on reserves of the decline in tourism
and FDI has been moderated by a slowdown in imports (tourism and FDI inflows have high
import content) and high external borrowing. Also, remittances are holding steady.

All end-June 2009 PSI quantitative targets were observed by a solid margin and, after
some delays, most structural benchmarks are expected to be met shortly. However, the
policy strategy memorandum on the offshore sector (an end-September benchmark) has not
been prepared. Instead the authorities have moved directly to the next phase of this reform
and are preparing a new banking law for submission to the Council of Ministers that will


25
  The 6th review under the Policy Support Instrument (PSI) was concluded on a lapse-of-time basis on June 10,
2009 (decision effective June 19, 2009). At that time the IMF Executive Board also approved the authorities'
request for a one-year extension of the PSI; which now expires in June 2010.

                                                     64
harmonize prudential regulations for onshore and offshore banks, in line with the 2009 FSAP
recommendations.

Policy response to the global crisis

The authorities have responded to the global crisis by easing fiscal policy and tightening
the monetary stance. They are using their fiscal space, as well as available external financing
to accelerate their public investment program. The public investment program is aimed at
eliminating major infrastructure bottlenecks and increasing the economy's long-term potential
growth. They are also increasing social spending to protect the most vulnerable groups. As a
result, overall spending is projected to increase by 6.8 percent of GDP relative to 2008 and,
with expected shortfalls in tax revenues and land sales, the deficit is projected to reach 8.8
percent of GDP in 2009. However, net domestic borrowing,26 the program's fiscal anchor, is
expected to be less than -0.8 percent of GDP, substantially below the program ceiling. The
liquidity crunch in Europe and an increased risk premium forced the Bank of Cape Verde to
raise the rate in October 2008 and hold it steady at 5¼ percent since. The rise helped stabilize
capital flows and stem the reserve loss in mid-2008 when the euribor spiked.

Policies for 2010 and beyond

The fiscal deficit in 2010 and 2011 is expected to be around 10 percent of GDP. The
deficit for 2012, as set out in the medium term fiscal framework (MTFF) submitted to the
National Assembly, could be around 6 percent of GDP. The authorities explained that they
were using the current time-bound window for access to concessional funds to finance as
much as possible of their investment needs on favorable terms. The large external borrowing
in 2009­11 was the result of their efforts over number of years to strengthen and streamline
their capacity to prepare and appraise projects and mobilize external resources. These efforts
have resulted in a large number of projects that are now ready for implementation. The
authorities also explained that with Cape Verde's graduation to middle-income status, they
had been given a 5-year transitional period by donors during which funding would be kept
concessional.

Fiscal policies should continue to aim at keeping domestic borrowing low to support
accumulation of international reserves and protect the exchange rate peg. The current
policy framework has served Cape Verde well. Sustained sizable repayment of domestic debt
in 2006-2009 facilitated a larger than envisaged increase in international reserves--from
2.8 months of imports at end 2005 to above 4 months of imports in mid-2008. Net domestic
borrowing in 2010 will be around 1 percent of GDP, consistent with maintaining, but not
increasing, the international reserve coverage. However, with its increasing dependence on a
single export, Cape Verde needs to further build its reserve buffer.

Staff and the authorities agreed that the fiscal deficit going forward should be reduced
and better anchored in a medium term debt strategy to safely retain a low risk of debt
distress. The authorities remain firmly committed to keeping the risk of debt distress low, and
want to make debt management a key focus of the next PSI. They are rapidly improving their
capacity to manage debt and capacity to conduct debt sustainability analyses (DSA), including
through recent joint WB-IMF technical assistance. They are committed to using the DSA

26
     Net of clearance of arrears.
                                              65
framework to ensure that the fiscal stance and external borrowing embedded in their MTFF
remains sustainable, and will present an updated MTFF for the period 2011­13 in the budget
write-up for the 2011 budget. While external debt has been low, it is increasing rapidly--the
present value of debt is projected to increase to 41 percent of GDP by end-2010, up from
around 27 percent in 2008. As the debt stock is largely on long and highly concessional terms,
Cape Verde's debt service is projected to remain moderate. Moreover, investment needs are
large, and the projects could raise Cape Verde's long-term growth prospects significantly.
Still, issues relating to fiscal sustainability would need to be carefully considered. Thus, in the
coming years Cape Verde should limit external borrowing to long-term financing on
concessional terms.

The monetary policy stance remains broadly appropriate. Consistent with the peg,
monetary policy aims at keeping cross-border capital flows low and stable. The BCV policy
rate follows the euribor adjusted for the perceived country risk premium. In the Fund staff's
view, there could be room to start gradually lowering the interest rate spread. The BCV,
however, wants to wait until the global recovery has become stronger, the risk premium has
narrowed further, and the pressure on international reserves has receded.




                                                66
ANNEX 4: Country at a glance
                                             Cape Verde at a glance                                                                                          9/24/08


                                                                                                 S ub-      Lo we r-
P O V E R T Y a nd S O C IA L                                                 C a pe        S a ha ra n    m iddle -
                                                                                                                          Development diamond*
                                                                             V e rde           A f ric a   inc o m e
2007
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                              0.53              800         3,437
                                                                                                                                      Life expectancy
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                           2,430              952         1,887
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                                1.3             762         6,485

A v e ra ge a nnua l gro wt h, 2 0 0 1- 0 7
P o pulatio n (%)                                                                     2.3           2.5            1 .1
Labo r fo rce (%)                                                                     2.7           2.6            1.5    GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                                                          per                                primary
M o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e ( la t e s t ye a r a v a ila ble , 2 0 0 1- 0 7 )                                       capita                          enrollment
P o verty (% o f po pulatio n belo w natio nal po verty line)                        ..               ..             ..
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                     59                36            42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                    71               51            69
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                          25                94             41
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                         ..              27            25          Access to improved water source
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                           ..              58            88
Literacy (% o f po pulatio n age 1 5+)                                              81               59            89
Gro ss primary enro llment (% o f scho o l-age po pulatio n)                      106                94             1
                                                                                                                   11                Cape Verde
  M ale                                                                           108                99           121                Lower-middle-income group
  Female                                                                          103                88           109

KE Y E C O N O M IC R A T IO S a nd LO N G - T E R M T R E N D S
                                                                  19 8 7       19 9 7            2006         2007
                                                                                                                          Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billio ns)                                                0.26           0.51               1.2           1.4
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n/GDP                                     28.5          22.0              38.1          40.6
Expo rts o f go o ds and services/GDP                              18.0          25.6              19.4          19.9                        Trade
Gro ss do mestic savings/GDP                                        3.5          -8.4               4.7           5.4
Gro ss natio nal savings/GDP                                       31.3          15.0              26.8          23.2

Current acco unt balance/GDP                                        2.9          -5.8              -4.5           -8.8
Interest payments/GDP                                               1.4           0.8               0.5              ..   Domestic                       Capital
                                                                                                                          savings                        formation
To tal debt/GDP                                                    49.9          40.7              50.9              ..
To tal debt service/expo rts                                       10.0           6.9               4.8              ..
P resent value o f debt/GDP                                           ..            ..             35.7              ..
P resent value o f debt/expo rts                                      ..            ..             65.0              ..
                                                                                                                                        Indebtedness
                                               19 8 7 - 9 7 19 9 7 - 0 7       2006              2007      2 0 0 7 - 11
(average annual gro wth)
GDP                                                    4.6           5.5         10.7               6.9            3.0               Cape Verde
GDP per capita                                         2.2           3.1          8.2               4.6            1.3               Lower-middle-income group
Expo rts o f go o ds and services                      8.3          15.9         32.8              13.8          -13.7



S T R UC T UR E o f t he E C O N O M Y
                                                                  19 8 7       19 9 7            2006         2007
(% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                       16.6           12.2              8.8           8.6
Industry                                                           18.6           17.8             16.3          16.5
  M anufacturing                                                    7.6            9.4              4.6           6.7
Services                                                           64.7           70.1             74.9          74.9

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                        82.5          92.1              74.6          73.9
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                     13.9          16.2              20.7          20.8
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                  43.0          55.9              52.8          55.1


                                                             19 8 7 - 9 7 19 9 7 - 0 7           2006         2007
(average annual gro wth)
A griculture                                                         0.5              0.3           3.7           5.2
Industry                                                             4.5              7.3           8.9            1
                                                                                                                  1 .2
  M anufacturing                                                     3.5              2.2             ..             ..
Services                                                             5.6              5.7          12.0           5.9

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                          4.2            6.1            10.8           7.8
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                       7.0           -1.1             5.8           8.3
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                           5.6           6.5             12.9          20.4
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                    6.9          10.3             23.7           16.1


No te: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.
* The diamo nds sho w fo ur key indicato rs in the co untry (in bo ld) co mpared with its inco me-gro up average. If data are missing, the diamo nd will
   be inco mplete.




                                                                                                           67
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                          Cape Verde


With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                                                             Cape Verde


Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                                               1990            1995              2000                2007
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, % of population)                                                ..              ..                ..                  ..
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                           ..              ..                ..                  ..
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                   ..              ..              4.4                   ..
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                           ..              ..                ..                  ..

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                          91               ..                98                    88
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                           51              64                102                    92
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                      21               ..                63                    80
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                                88               ..                 ..                   96

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                                ..              ..                99                   103
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                               ..              ..                39                     ..
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                                12              11                 11                    15

Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                          60              50                 42                    34
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                               45              37                 31                    25
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                             79              66                 80                    65

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)                                         ..              ..                 ..                  210
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                         ..             54                 89                     ..
 Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                             ..              ..                53                     ..

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                               ..              ..                 ..                    ..
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                             162             164                166                   168
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                   ..              ..                41                    33

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                         ..              79                80                  ..
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                                                   ..              40                41                  ..
 Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                        14.4                ..             20.3               20.8
 Nationally protected areas (% of total land area)                                                            ..               ..                ..               0.2
 CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                     0.2              0.3               0.4                0.6
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                    ..               ..                ..                 ..

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                                                       2.3             5.4               12.1               13.8
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                                                  0.0             0.0                4.4               27.9
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                            0.0             0.2                1.8                7.0
 Personal computers (per 100 people)                                                                          ..            0.4                5.5               13.0



   Education indicators (%)                                 Measles immunization (% of 1-year olds)                ICT indicators (per 1,000 people)

   125                                                      100                                                    40

   100
                                                             75                                                    30
    75

    50                                                       50                                                    20

    25
                                                             25                                                    10
     0
          2000         2002        2004         2006
                                                              0                                                    0
                                                                       1990    1995     2000    2006                      2000        2002      2004          2006
                 Primary net enrollment ratio
                                                                                                                                 Fixed + mobile subscribers
                 Ratio of girls to boys in primary &              Cape Verde          Sub-Saharan Africa                         Internet users
                 secondary education



Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                                       9/24/08

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                   68
                                                                       25°W                                                                   24°W                                                        23°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                      RIBEIRA                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                     GRANDE                          Ribeira Grande                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                        Vila das Pombas                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                       Ribeira da Cruz                        PAÚL
                                                 Lajes                     Santo Antão
                17°N                         (1803 m)            Porto Novo                                                                                                                                                                                          17°N
                                 PORTO
                                 NOVO
                                                               Mindelo         SÃO VINCENTE

                                                                                                                       WIND
                                                                                 Calhau
                                                         São Pedro         Madeiral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sal
                                              São Vicente                                  Santa Luzia
                                                                                                                                             WA R                                                      Espargos

                                                                                                                               SÃO NICOLAU                D IS
                                                                               Ilhéu Branco
                                                                                                               Riberia Brava                                   LAN                                       SAL

                                                                                                                                                                   DS
                                                                                       Ilhéu Raso                                                                                                                    Santa Maria
                                                                                                                Tarrafal        Preguica

                                                                                                                               São Nicolau



                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sal-Rei
                                                                                                                   AT L A N T I C                     OCEAN                                                                         Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOA VISTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Povocão Velha
                16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16°N




                          CAPE
                          VERDE




                                                                                                                       DS
                                                                                                             I  SLAN
                                                                                                     W A R D TARRAFAL São Tiago
                                                                                                 LEE
                                                                                                                              SANTA                                                                    Maio
                       CAP E V E RDE                                                                           SANTA
                                                                                                                              CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                       Tarrafal
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIO
                                                                                                                                                                       Santa Cruz
                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                          CATARINA                                 Vila do Maio
                                                                                                                                                      Santa Catarina
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                        Mosteiros
                                                                                                                            Igreja
                                                                                          Ilhéus Do                                  MOSTEIROS                         São Domingo
                                                                                            Rombo                                                                                                                                                                    15°N
                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                Mt. Fogo
                                                                                                               (2,829 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                  SÃO                                   0      10     20      30 Kilometers
                        MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                          PRAIA DOMINGOS
                                                                               Brava                                                                    PRAIA
DECEMBER 2004




                                                                                              Furna




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33383
                                                                                                        São
                        COUNTY (CONCELHO) BOUNDARIES                          BRAVA                   Filipe                     SÃO FILIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0           10          20          30 Miles
                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                  Fogo
                                                                       25°W                                                                   24°W                                                        23°W
