Doca=t of
The World Bank
FOPt OFFICUAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5828-GUI
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
10                                            May 29, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5828-GUI Type: (PM)
BALCET, JC/ X34934 / J 8143/ AFlAG
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Guinean Franc (GNF)
US $ 1.0     =     GNF 71C 1/
SDR 1.0            US $1.37 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCIAG              Chambre de Commerce, d'industbie et d'Agriculture de Guinde
-     Guinean Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture
CICM        -      Centre Intemational de CrEdit Mutuel
Intemational Center of Mutual Credit
CLIFEL      -      Comite de Liaison Interprofessionnel pour les Fruits et lEgumes
Interprofessional Liaison Committee for Fruits and Vegetables
DNGR               Direction Nationale du Genie Rural (MARA)
-     National Directorate of Rural Engineering
FAC         -      Fonds dAide et de Cooperation (France)
French Fund for Aid and Cooperation
PDMCG       -      Projet de Developpement du Mouvement Coop6ratif en Guinee
-     C:ooperative Development Project
PESRPP             Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Project
PNVA        -      Projet National de Vulgarisation Agricole
-     National Agricultural Extension Project
PPF         -      Project Preparation Facility
PSPP        -      Private Sector Promotion Program
SAL         -      Structural Adjustment Lending
SENATEC    -       Service National dAppui Technique et d'Enregistrement pour
les CoopEratives
-     National Cooperative Support Service
FISCAL YEAR 
January 1 - December 31
11    Represents the exchange rate at appraisal in May 1991. The exchange rate is established
through an auction system and was GNF 922 to the U.S. dollar at negotiations in May 1992.
2/    As of May 8, 1992.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTIQN PROJECT
CREDIT ANJD PROJECT SUMMARY
The Govemment of Guins,a
Beneficlirjes:            Private/semi-orivate entities: Guinean Chamber of Commerce (CCIAG),
Interprofessional Uaison Committee for Fruits and Vegetables (CLIFEL),
selected nucleus estate companies, Mutual Credit Company (CICM) and
Fund Management Company; and aovemment grolects/services:
National Extension Project (PNVA), Agronomic Research Institute
(IRAG), Cooperatives Development Project (PDMCG), National
Cooperative Support Service (SENATEC) and National Directorate of
Rural Engineering (DNGR).
*Credit Amount:           SDR 15.2 million (US$ 20.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Financina Plan:           Govemment           US$ 2.5 million
IDA                 US$ 20.8 million
FAC                US$ 0.6 million
Beneficiaries      U$ 0.7 million
Total               US$ 24.6 million
Economic Rate
of Retum                 17% for production components (about 55% of project costs)
Staff AoRraisal
Report:                 tNo. 9997-GUI
IBRD 23527 and 23528
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO GUINEA
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
1     I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Guinea for SDR 15.2, the equivalent of US$20.8 million, on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a project for agricultural export promotion.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
DeveloRment Performance and Congstraints
2.    After independence from France In 1958, Guinea left the Franc zone, introduced a centrally
planned economy, and nationalized all foreign-owned enterprises. The domestic private sector
gradually went underground. The once dynamic agricultural sector retumed to subsistence production
and agricultural exports simply ceased. An ambitious public investment program aimed at creating a
modem, state-owned manufacturing sector failed, leaving a substantial debt burden and growing
arrears. The exchange rate became heavily overvalued; non-mining tax revenues shrank; the better
educated left in large numbers; public health and education were neglected; state banks became
insolvent; the heavily overstatVed public enterprises ran Into severe financial problems; and the nation's
infrastructure crumbled. The mining sector expanded with the opening of two enclave, joint venture
bauxite mines and constituted the main source of foreign exchange and general revenue.
3.    As a result, economic growth averaged only 2 percent a year during the period from
independence to the fall of the Sdkou Tour6 regime In 1984. In 1990, per capita GNP amounted to
only US$ 440. Population growth accelerated from 1.5 percent a year in 1965 to 2.7 percent in 1990.
In that year, average life expectancy was 43.3 years, and about a quarter of the children bom died
before the age of five. Only 34 percent of school-age children attended primary school and 24 percent
of the population was literate. The 1991 U.N. report on human development, which measures various
social indicators, ranked Guinea last of 160 countries.
4.    Progress is being made toward greater democracy: in 1990 the press was freed, and strikes
and demonstrations were allowed. In early 1991, free municipal elections took place. A new
constitution was adopted in early 1992 and multi party legislative elections are scheduled for the end
of 1992, Presidential elections for 1993.
Performance under the Structural Adiustrnent Program.
5.    Following the fall of the Sekou Tour6 regime in April 1984, Guinea's new military leaders
embarked upon ambitious reforms to free the economy from Govemment interference and introduce a
market economy. The Bank supported these reforms with a first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I,
Cr. 1659-GUI) approved in February, 1986. The first phase of the structural adjustment process,
1985-87, saw an impressive number of economic reforms: the Govemment lifted import restrictions
and price controls, devalued the currency, and established a market oriented foreign exchange system;
it privatized or liquidated 86 state enterprises (including all state-owned banks) and reduced the size
of the civil service by almost 30 percent. Investment was focussed on reconstructing the road
network and other key transport infrastructure. The economy reacted with strong growth in
construction and small-scale enterprise activities, but the response from modem sector Investors was
disappointing.
6.    During the second phase of adjustment, begun in 1988 with support from SAL II (Cr. 1928-
GUI) and an IMF SAF arrangement, progress was slower, partly because Govemment now needed to
go beyond the dismantling of old, inappropriate policies and practices and try to set up new Institutions
capable of sustaining the market economy. There have, nevertheless, been important achievements
under this program, including: a structural increase in non-mining revenues from 3 to 6 percent of GDP



-2 -
In 1991; removal of uneconomic projects from the public investment program; and, a clean-up o the
state controlled electricity and oil distribution sectors. Also, fuel prices and utility tariffs were
increased to cost recovering levels, and interest rates became positive in real terms. However, civil
service reform fell short of expectations. Under SAL II the Govemment had agreed to establish a
mechanism for the nonitoring and control of its personnel rolls ard wage bill as a specific condition
for second tranche release. In 1991, second tranche release was delayed because this specific
condition had not yet been fulfilled (see para. 44). Since end 1991, inadequate budget performance
has emerged as a second issue affecting tranche release.
7.     Economic arowth averaged about 4 percent a year over the 1986-90 period. However, in
1991 it fell to only 1.9 percent, as against 5 percent targeted for that year. Civil unrest related to the
slow pace of democratic reforms and low Govemment wages contributed to this poor performance.
Modem sector investment remained very low and informal sector growth (that had driven economic
growth in the years before) slowed down. Moreover, severe and frequent interruptions of the
electricity supply cor.tiniued to constrain output growth. Agriculture is estimated to have grown by
only 2 percent a year during 1986-91.
Table 1. Key Macroeconomic Indicators
verage   Act.   PFP.  Act.    PFP. RPF    PFP.   REP.
1986-89  j?990     1°91L....   1....i Z...    1993   1994
Basic PFP Oblectives
GD* Growth Rate                   4.0    4.3   5.0   1.9    5.0   3.4    5.5    5.5
Conswner Price Increase          39.3   19.4  25.0  19.6   17.0  19.0   12.0   8.0
Current Acet/GDP                 -8.6   -10.2  -10.3 -10.2   -9.1 -10.7   -9.4   -8.2
Key Quantitative Tarsets
Exports Growth Rate               5.5     0.9   2.5   1.5    5.0   1.6    4.4    3.9
Investment/GOP                   18.7   17.4   17.6  15.7   17.0  16.2    18.3   17.5
Govt. Revenue/GDP 3/             14.0    14.9   15.5  13.5    15.5  14.9    15.0   14.9
Govt. Expenditure/GDP            22.0    23.8   21.3  21.7   20.8  21.1    20.2   20.0
Budget Balance/JOP I/            -8.1   -8.9  -5.8  -8.3   -5.3  -6.2   -5.2   -5.1
I1 Revised economic program (see pars. 15)
Excluding grants
8.     The Balance of gavments strongly improved during 1986-88. After 1988, exports slowed
down and the current account deficit increased (table 1). In 1991, the current account deficit
remained at 10 percent of GDP, in line with program targets. In that year, sluggish economic growth
kept imports constant in real terms. Exports hardly grew. However, the economy did not suffer from
foreign exchange scarcity because the official exchange rate was kept within a 10 percent margin of
the free market rate. The reserve position was eased by the Govemment's not paying US$ 14 million
in non-rescheduleable extemal arrears after it leamed that the Paris Club had postponed the December
1991 meeting on Guinea for reasons unrelated to country performance, and by the accumulation of
non-debt extemal arrears of US$ 88 million.
9.     Budpetarv oerformance hardly improved during 1986-91 because growth in mining revenues
was below GDP growth. But non-mining revenues were quickly increasing, thanks to a steep increase
in taxes on petroleum products and a steady growth in customs collections. The 1991 budget results
were determined by the Govemment decision in May to double basic civil service salaries after a week
of strikes and riots. The Government revised its 1991 budget to compensate for the increase in the
wage bill by cuts in staff levels and non-developmental expenditures, but did not achieve these targets.
Instead, Govemment counterpart contributions to foreign financed Investnent projects were
postponed, and many projects came to a standstill. Full payment of 1991 counterpart contributions
was only made In March 1992. However, severe liquidity problems continued through the first quarter



-3 -
of 1992, mainly because of a largely unexplained drop in customs and fuel tax revenues, which
prevented the Government from disbursing on time the agreed counterpart funds for the first quarter
of 1992.
10.   Inflation. The program was successful in substantially reducing inflation from 65 percent a
year In 1986, to 27 percent in 1988, and 19 percent in 1990. In 1991, the Govemment succeeded
in avoiding an increase in the rate of inflation despite the civil service salary increase. In that year,
credit to the private sector stayed below program targets because of extensive debt write-offs by
Guinea's largest commercial bank and the introduction of positive real interest rates. A slight
appreciation of the Guinean Franc vis-a-vis the US dollar kept import prices down at the expense of
lower budget receipts from bauxite mining.
Central Develonment Issues
11.   Guinea has a good climate and rich mineral resources, but this endowment was largely
squandered during the 25 years of economic mismanagement. Today Guinea is in many respects one
of the most underdeveloped countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. A massive effort is required in the
development of the human resource base of the country. Because of a malfunctioning public
administration and the virtual absence of a modern private sector, sustained growth requires a
profound change in the institutional environment. Specifically, vigorous and timely action will be
needed to improve oovemance, the investment climate, and budget execution. The challenge is great
and the Govemment will need to increase its efforts towards realizing these objectives.
Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Structural Policies.
12.   Policy Framework Paner Obiectives. The policy thrust of the adjustment program has not
changed since 1988, but the macroeconomic framework has been revised several times, not only to
accommodate changio ., circumstances but also because of slow program implementation. A third PFP
was approved in November, 1991 in support of an SDR 57.9 million IMF Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF).
13.   The Govemment's adjustment program as iaid down in the PFP aims at accelerated
development of human resources, private sector grcwth, and reduction of the size of the public sector
in line with the lower needs of a market economy. Macroeconomic policies proposed in the PFP
include: maintaining market based prices and positive real interest rates; keeping the economy
competitive and continuing market oriented exchange rate policies; reducing inflation by lowering the
budget deficit; and diminishing dependency on debt rescheduling and balance of payments aid. The
structural policies inc:ude: improving financial intermediation; disengaging the state from commercial
activities; improving civil service management; and shifting public expenditures toward economic and
social development.
14.   The PFP/ESAF program contains quantitative targets and other specific benchmarks for 1991
actions against which progress in meeting these objectives can be measured in concrete terms. They
are:
(a)   reduction of the number of civil servants from about 52,000 in the beginning of 1991
to 49,000 end 1991;
(b)   a ceiling of GNF 97.5 billion on the 1991 wage bill (43 percent of current
expenditures);
(c)   non-mining revenues of at least GNF 144 bil;ion in 1991 (30 percent of receipts);
(d)   preparation of an inventory of all existing tax exemptions;



-4 -
(e)   a further 50 percent increase In electricity tariffs in 1991 (aftr,r doubling In March
1991);
(f)   privatization or liquidation of four public enterpr.ses;
Io)   establishment of independent telecommunications and postal services (end March
1992); and, among the monetary targets;
(h)   end 1991 bank credit to the Government at GNF 17.6 billion.
Only one of these specific targets - the electricity tariff increase - was fully met. Of the others, the
Government made good progress with the inventory of tax exemptions and the formulation of
legislation to create independent telecommunications and postal service companies in the first quarter
of 1992. However, the level of the civil service and the wage bill were in excess of the end 1991
targets. Revenues were 15 percent below the target, mainly because mining revenues stayed below
expectaion (para. 9 and 10). Bank credit to the Govemment was more than twice the performance
criterion, but overall credit expansion exceeded the targets by a smaller margin because credit to the
private sector decreased during 1991 (para. 10).
15.  In February 1992, when it had become clear that economic growth had been disappointing and
that the Government had not met the end-1 991 benchmarks and performance criteria, agreement was
reached on a revised economic program for 1992-94. The revised program assumes that the economy
will gradually recover from the 1991 downtum and reach 5.3 percent growth in 1994, very close to
the original PFP target. The Govemment adapted the 1992 budget to the new targets and
circumstances, among which was a substantial fall in bauxite tax revenues due to a fall in world
aluminum prices. In the revised program, this revenue loss will be offset by rescheduling on
concessional terms of the 1992 debt service, a feature that was not included in the original program.
After policy slippage in the 1991 program, the IMF was not able to conclude the Mid-term Program
Review In March 1992, required for further access to the ESAF funds.
16.  In the first quarter of 1992, when the collection of non-mining revenues unexpectedly dropped
far below the program targets (para. 9), the Govemment did not attain the performance criteria set for
end March according to the revised program. In May 1992, it sent a high-level mission to Washington
to consult with the Bank and the Fund on the new fiscal problems. The delegation indicated that the
Government would reinforce its 1992 program to bring the budget performance for the rest of the year
back on track and would introduce additional fiscal measures for an amount of GNF 15 billion (0.5
percent of GDP), equivalent to the budget shortfall in the first quarter before end June 1992. The
Govemment's continuing fiscal problems are related to the dominance in the budget of variable
revenues from the mining sector and the inadequacy of non-mining taxes, in particular those on
domestic consumption. In addition, tax exemptions are excessive and abused, and the customs need
fundamental restructuring to reduce fraud and tax evasion.
17.   In July 1992 a joint Bank/lMF mission will evaluate Guinea's economic performance against
the revised program. The IMF will then determine if and how its ESAF program can be put back on
track, and the Bank will review the measures needed for tne release of the second tranche of SAL II.
18.   Private Sector Incentive. During the 1985-87 period, the Govemment took a number of
measures to encourage private sector growth, most notably in the liberalization of the economy
(para.5). About half of all public enterprises were liquidated. The Government also closed the state
owned commercial banks and invited foreign banks to open branches in Guinea. It adopted monetary
policies favoring the extension of credit to the private sector. A modem investment code was
introduced, followed by the codification of all commercial laws and regulations. The labor law and the
role of the Labor Inspectorate were revised to give more flexibility to enterprises in managing their labor
force. Two key issues for private setor development are the deficiency of the judiciary and the failure
of the private banks to perform financial intermediation (two of the banks need recapitalization).



*-5
19.   Prlvatizatlon policl2s. The 1985-87 round of state enterprise reform focussed on privatizing
or liquidating 86 public enterprises in financial difficulty, operating in the commercial and productive
sectors where the State had no comparative advantage. Although the first divestiture program was
impressive in terms of numbers of enterprises privatized or liquidated, a Bank financed study showed
that the process suffered from the absence of an appropriate institutional and legal framework. This
deficiency led to a lack of transparency and, In the absence of a systematic approach coherent with
the structural adjustment program, to excessive protection in some specific cases.
20.   The 1988-91 phase of public enterprise reform concemed companies of strategic importance.
After successfully transferring the responsibility for running Conakry's water supply system (SONEG)
to private hands, the Gove.r=ent has decided to apply a similar formula to the power company
(ENELGUI). The Governrent is also preparing privatization of the telecommunications system and will
restructure the postal service as a commercial entity. A formal agreement with private oil companies
to take over petroleum distribution is expected in July, 1992. The Govemment has also decided to
transform the OBK bauxite mine, founded as a joint venture with the USSR, into a commercial venture
with private partners. The CBG bauxite mine, run by private interests, will take over management of
the associated economic and social infrastructure. The Government has also reconfirmed Its intention
to privatize or liquidate 43 other public enterprises with commercial functions.
21.   Civil service reform. Under the Marxist regime (1958-84), almost all modem sector workers
were employed by the state, a large number of them working in the central bureaucracy in Conakry.
The reductioh in central Govemment staff and their redeployment in productive activities has been a
central Govemment objective since 1985. During the first phase of adjustment all civil servants were
tested to determine their competence and premiums were offered to staff who wanted to resign. A
reduction of 28 percent in civil service staff levels was achieved during 1986-91. Programs of
assistance weie instituted to help former civil servants start up in business. However, the conversion
from civil servant to small scale entrepreneur proved more difficult than expected. Only 400 persons
obtained credits through these programs and the repayment record was bad. In 1990, the program
was merged with existing general private sector promotion programs.
22.   While the Govemment was reducing the number of civil servants, iP was gradually Increasing
their very inadequate wages. In 1991, when the Govemment doubled its employees wages In real
terms, It surpassed the financing capacity of the budget but reached salary levels just about average
in Affica and In line with private sector remuneration. The Government reviewed the legitimacy of all
persons on the payroll. In early 1991 , illicit or ineligible payments accounting for almost 10 percent
of the total wage bill were identified and stopped. However, a permanent mechanism to monitor the
personnel rolls and wage bill is not yet fully operational and the final results of the payroll verification
are not yet available. A programmed reduction of staff from about 52,000 agents In the beginning of
1991 to the 49,000 planned for the end of that year has not been achieved. With help from UNDP,
France and the Bank, the Government Is now designing a third phase of civil service reform focussed
on staffing plans, budgetary control over posts and appointments, as well as career management
(including training, and incentives and promotion procedures).
23.   Human Resources DeveloDment. One of the major constraints to economic growth in Guinea
is the country's weak human resource base. This is reflected in the low literacy rates, high morbidity
and mortality levels, and serious quality and access problems in both the education and health sectors.
The issues are particularly acute for women. Although there is awareness of the need for human
resource development and a declared commitment to address both growth and equity objectives, a
number of institutional, structural and financial constraints have blocked the development of these
sectors. Moreover, rolitical uncertainties have focused attention on short-term expediency measures
away from necessary structural change.
24.   Low enrollment rates and low quality gducation have become the most serious constraint to
long-term development. Under the Govemment's educational reform program, supported by IDA's
sectoral Adjustment Credit (FY90), real expenditures on education have increased significantly with



-6 -
a greater percentage of funding going to primary education. The flow of funds to rural areas (primary
and secondary schools) has been greatly increased, although the on-going fiscal crisis in the country
continues to create delays in executing programs. Significant progress was made including: the
distribution of 300,000 textbooks to primary schools, and development of new staffing plans for
redeployment of under-utilized personnel from secondary to primary schools. Professional and
vocational training achievements continue to be fragmentary, and Government is still seeking a
conv,ncing strategy. As in many other countries, the university sector is inefficient, largely irrelevant
for the emerging needs of the economy, and a source of political instability.
25.   Guinea's halth_ indicators are among the worst in Africa with more than a quarter of the
children dying before they reach five years of age. With the adoption of a program of primary health
care In 1987, the Government, along with donors, initiated work to expand the health delivery system
which now covers almost two-thirds of the health centers in the country. The initial base was
admittedly weak, nevertheless progress in providing people with basic health services has been
noteworthy and there is community participation in both financing and management of these services.
However, even this promising start iF being jeopardized by a number oi institutional, management and
financial constraints resulting in sn-Xt2ges in drug supply and ooor supervision. Moreover, in the
current fiscal crisis, Government financing for the health sector has decreased to 2 percent of the
overali Government budget. Delays in counterpart funding are causing serious problems in project
implementation.
26.   Povert. Neglect of human resources manifests itself in a number of areas, particularly as it
relates to quality and access to services. Guinea's socio-economic indicators place it as the lowest-
ranking country in the world based on the UN assessment of standards of living. An estimated 50
percent of Conakry's population lives below the poverty line. Uke many other African countries,
income distribution is skewed, with 10 percent of the population accounting for 30 percent of the
expenditures. A nutritional study conducted in Conakry in 1990 shows that 18 percent of pre-
schoolers are chronically malnourished, indicating nutritional shortages over long periods of time.
Govemment efforts to mitigate urban poverty have focused on those who lost public sector jobs,
although available evidence suggests that the unemployment problem is more acute for the unskilled.
27.   Before the current economic reform program, it was the rural population that suffered most
from neglect and poverty. The adjustnr -nt process has generally improved their economic
opportunities: the price structure has changed in favor of agricultural products and access to urban
markets has improved. However the rural population still suffers from neglect in health and education
services.
28.   Women in DeveloDment. Women are most seriously affected by this neglect. Their status in
the society is low. Although they contribute significantly to agricultural development, they face
gender-related traditions and practical difficulties which give them few work choices and iimited control
over income. On average, Guinean women have 6.5 children and are most severely affected by
weaknesses in the health and education system. For example, only 21 percent of primary school age
girls are enrolled in school, as compared to 34 percent of the total relevant school age group. While
the Govemment has declared its commitment to address the needs of women, and has established a
department for womens' affairs, limited progress has thus far been achieved to reach women or to
adopt gender-specific policies and programs. There are also few grassroots organizations for women
in the country.
29.   REfuges. An additional burden has been imposed upon Guinea since I 9l0 by continuing civil
unrest in Uberia and Sierra Leone; about 550,000 refugees have settled in Guinea, more than 7 percent
of total population. The Govemment has not restricted refugee movements nor access to jobs, but
relies on the United Nations to set up camps and provide minimum income. The refugee problem
clearly exceeds the capabilities of the country to handle it alone.



.7 -
30.   Environment. Guinea is confronted with four serious environmental issues: urbanization,
increasing rural population density, large numbers of refugees, and mining activities. Conakry, a
sprawling city with little sanitation infrastructure, receives about four meters of rain in the space of
three months during the rainy season. The associated floods damage the dirt roads and spread
disease. Careful urban planning, community participation in improving the neighborhood environment,
and much larger urbar, investment are all needed if such a dense population is to live in safety under
the climatic conditions prevailing in Guinea. In the rural areas, increased population density is causing
deforestation and soil erosion.
31.   Mining companies have as yet not invested sufficiently to minimize the negative environmental
impact. Bauxite and alumina handling is a source of dust pollution ..a Conakry port and Boke. The
overburden from the mines is fouling the rivers. Moreov er, artisanal mining Is contributing to erosion
problems. A special case is the potential mining of the exceptionally rich Mount Nimba iron deposit
close to the Liberian frontier (see also para. 62!. The proposal is attracting stiff opposition from the
international environmental community. Fe- the moment, mining plans are delayed because of the
political instability in Liberia, through which the ore would have to pass over an existing railway to the
nearest seaport.
32.    Protected tropical rain forests are being invaded by settlers, many of them from Sierra Leone
and Liberia. These forests cover only a small part of Guinea and will have virtually disappeared by the
year 2010 if not better protected. Potentially relevant legislation is on the books but in practice the
Government has no coherent policy for dealing with the problem.
33.   To date, the Government has given only limited attention to environmental concems but the
Bank is attempting to raise the authorities' awareness of the issues and encourage them to formulate
a national environmental policy (paras. 61 to 63).
Experience with Previous Bank Assistance
34.   Previous Bank Grout Lendino. The Bank Group has to date financed 40 operations in Guinea:
two IBRD loans totalling US$ 73.5 million and 38 IDA Credits totalling US$ 754 million. IFC has made
three investments totalling US$ 27 million. Up to 1984, the lending program was small and focussed
on a few enclave projects, among them a joint venture bauxite mine and a pineapple export project.
The bauxite mine is now a major foreign exchange eamer and source of govemment receipts.
However, the pineapple project, heavily dependent on other state enterprises for transport and sales
services, failed. Discussions on privatizing the project are at an advanced stage.
i
35.   With the decision in 1985 to reorient the economy towards a market system, the intemational
donor community quickly stepped up its assistance to Guinea. Over the 1985-91 period IDA lending
amounted to US$ 546 million: 29 percent of IDA commitments were for quick disbursing operations,
5 percent for technical assistance, 11 percent for agriculture, 50 percent for infrastructure and 5
percent for human resources (see table 2). The bulk of IDA funds were devoted to the rehabilitation
of Guinea's dilapidated infrastructure in order to permit private sector growth. However, the
comerstone of the Bank Group's program was support for the Government's adjustment efforts: two
SALs focused on economic liberalization, private sector incentives, privatization of public enterprises,
and civil service reform. The adjustment process was deepened with the approval of Education and
Private Sector SECALs in 1990. Technical Assistance was also an important element of the portfolio,
in particular for mining (one project) and for Economic Management (two projects). Investment
operations Initially focussed on agriculture (six projects), and roads and ports (two projects) but in the
late 1 980s, the emphasis was put on human resources development and social services; additional
investment operations were approved for water supply, urban infrastructure, health and population,
rural infrastructure, and socio-economic development.



-8-
Table 2: Comositiorn of IDA Lndinf FT 1985-1990
(as of June 10, 1992)
Date of             Amomt  Percentage share of
Approval      (USS Million)        Total Lending
1. STRUCtURAL ADJUSTMENT LENDING                                              160                  293X
SAL 1                                                  02/11/86                25.0                 4.6%
SAL II                                                 06/16188                65.0                11.9%
Education SECAL                                        06/12/90                20.0                 3.7%
Private Sector Prootion SECAL                          05/31/90                50.0                 9.1%
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                          XLi
Technical Assistance for Ecornmic Management           03/14/85                 9.5                 1.7X
Mineral Sector Management                               11/26/85                3.9                 0.7%
Second Ecomic Management Support                        11/08/88               14.5                 2.7%
111. AMICULTURE                                                                59.3                10.9X
Gueckedou Agricultural Development                      11/26/85                6.6                 1.2X
First Agricultural Services                            11/26/85                 7.5                 1.4%
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation                        07/08/86                 9.8                 1.8X
Agricultural Seeds                                      12/15/87                9.0                 1.6%
National.Research and Extenon                          09/15/88                18.4                 3.4%
Forestry and Fishery Nanagement                        10/24/89                 8.0                 1.5X
IV. INFRASTUCTIRE                                                             UP=a                 49.5X
Power Engineering II                                   05/16/85                 8.0                 1.5%
Transport Sector                                       06/04/87                55.0                10.1X
Conakry Urban Denlopment                               06/04/87                15.2                 2.8%
Highwys IV                                             06/07/88                55.0                10.1%
Second Water Supply                                    02/21/89                40.0                 7.3%
National Rural Infrastructure                          03/20/90                40.0                 7.3%
Secnd Urban                                            03/27/90                57.0                10.4%
V. HUIW  RESOURCES                                                              8Z7 LB
Health Services Devetopmnt                             07/07/87                19.7                 3.6%
Socdo-Economic Development Support                      03/28/89                9.0                 1.7%
(PM: Ecucation SECAL under 1)



-9-
36.   Proiecti mplementation Issues. The steep increase In donor comm;.inents during the 1985-90
period, bringino the total aid of all donors to an average of US$ 220 million a year (of which 43 percent
IDA), created severe problems of absorptive capacity for Guinea. Annual IDA disbursements decreased
from 35 to 18 percent of undisbursed commitments. building a pipeline c. undisbursed IDA
commitments of US$ 440 million by the end of 1990. Undisbursed IDA commitments were
subsequently reduced to an amount of US$ 319 million at end April 1992 by a slowdown in new
lending and measures to accelerate project implementation discussed below. The low absorptive
capacity for foreign aid was due to slow decision making and cumbersome procurement and payment
procedures. Counterpart funds for Bank and other externally-financed projects were often unavailable
*     or, at best, paid after long delays. Those delays were related to misguided spending priorities, poor
financial discipline, and weak revenue performance.
*     37.   Facing severe implementation difficulies under many IDA-financed projects and inadaquate
fiscal performance on the part of the Govemment, the Bank approved no new projects during FY91,
or the first part of FY92, and substantially cut back its planned lending program.
38.    To help increase Guinea's absorptive capacity, the Bank built Important technical assistance
elements into its new projects and established strong project supervision capacity In the Resident
Mission in Conakry. At the request of the Govemment, technical assistants have been placed in line
functions to advance the privatization of public enterprises where vested interests were slowing down
progress. The Bank proposed improved payment and procurement procedures and reduced counterpart
fund requirements to a minimum. Also, In the framework of the PFP, an agreement was reached that
the national budget contributions to foreign financed projects would be paid regularly at the beginning
of each quarter, an arrangement that has been reconfirmed by the high-level delegation that visited
Washington In May 1992 (para. 16).
39.  In the fourth quarter of 1991, most national contributions for IDA-financed projects for 1991
were finally committed by the Govemment and were largely paid in early 1992. However, IDA projects
received hardly any of the counterpart funds budgeted for the first quarter of 1992. The timely
provision of counterpa-t funds will continue to create problems in project execution until the Treasury's
liquidity problems ar. substantially eased.
AO.  In the policy dialogue around the PFP and SAL II, the Bank is recommending fiscal measures
to help solve the liquidity problems of the Treasury. As noted previously, the Government is planning
additional fiscal measures to Improve resource mobilization In the medium term and make up for the
revenue shortfalls during the first quarter (para. 16). However, If necessary, disbursements will be
suspended as appropriate for individual IDA projects for which counterpart contributions are not
provided In time. The new Minister of Finance has unequivocally declared that the Govemment will
attach higher priority to the counterpart funds for foreign financed projects and the Bank expects better
performance in this respect as soon as the Treasury's liquidity situation has substantially improved.
As a result of the above combination of actions and commitments, the existing problems with delays
In counterpart funding are expected gradually to be resolved In the course of 1992-93.
Country Lendina Strateav and OWiectives
41. Obiectives. The Bank's country assistance strategy for Guinea is focussing on the following
five objectives: (i) remove obstacles to private sector development; (i) improve govemance through
technical assistance and privatizing functions that can be carried by the private sector, (ii) Improve
fiscal performance, (liv) build the human resource base, and (v) arrest environmental deterioration. Both
the structural adjustment and investment operations are designed to further these objectives.
42.   The foregoing objectives are reflected In the P,1P. Key quantitative targets are set out in table
1 and key structural benchmarks are discussed below in paragraphs 43 and 46. For the period FY93-
95, three alernative levels of lending are possible, depending upon how rapidly progress can be made
towards the foregoing five objectives. If no improvement in the fiscal and macroeconomic performance



- 10-
were to occur, but Guinea continues to implement the principal structural reforms identified under the
SAL and PFP, IDA would proceed with the base case lending program. The hinh case program would
be triggered if Guinea's policy and macroeconomic performance were to show strong improvement.
On the other hand, if performance were poorer than expected, IDA would proceed with a low case
lending program consisting of one project a year aimed at Guinea's long-term growth potential.
FY92 Proaram
43.   Although the fiscal sittation is not yet fully under control, the Govemment is taking steps to
improve it. Hence, the Bank will present two projects for a total amount of USS 28.1 million to the
Executive Directors In FY92. The decision to present these two projects was made with the objective
of supporting the existing momentum in the privatization policy of the Government. In addition, the
Bank has carefully designed the new projects to protect them as much as possible against the risk of
inadequate budget performance. The objectives of the two operations to be presented in FY92 are as
follows:
The Public Enterorise Rationalization and Privatization T.A. Proiect (USS 7.3 million IDA)
presented to the Board on June 23, 1992, will help the Govemment formulate and implement
the next stage of the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Program, which
gives special emphasis to public enterprise privatization covering some 46 enterprises and to
strengthening key institutions involved in program implementation. The project aims at
achieving a leaner, more effective, and better managed PE sector and at reducing the financial
burden of the sector on public resources. The national contributions for the financing of this
T.A. project are relatively small and will be paid up-front on annual basis.
The Aaricultural Exoort Proiect IUS$ 20.8 million IDA), now in an advanced stage of
preparation, would help increase agricultural exports to a level, whereby the country will start
to benefit from economies of scale in sea transportation. Additional production would come
from estate plantations and smallholders through the provision of private sector managed
services and rehaLilitation of access roads in the target area.  The local counterpart
contributions will be provided mainly by private sector participants. Recourse to budget
resources would be limited to 2.6 percent of total project costs net of taxes.
Tranche Releases under Existina Structural Adiustment Credits
44.   The outstanding tranches under three on-going adjustment operations amount to US$ 74 million
in 1992. At the moment, the release of these tranches is delayed by slippages in the implementation
of the agreed macroeconomic framework and delays in meeting the following project specific
conditions:
SAL II -    the establishment of a permanent mechanism for the monitoring and control of
Government's personnel rolls and wage bill;
Private Sector
SECAL -     the establishment of a new investment promotion system; and,
Education
SECAL -     the application of agreed building standards for schools and the staff redeployment
plan.
In July 1992, the Bank will send a mission (pars. 17) to review progress in implementing the
macroeconomic framework as revised In February 1992, as well as progress under SAL II. The release
of the tranches of the quick-disbursing sectoral operations will be considered once their specific
conditionalities has been met and a satisfactory macroeconomic framework is in place.



-11 -
45.   The Base Case. This program would consists of seven projects over a three-year period with
an annual average of US$ 61 million a year in new IDA commitments. As is the case for the projects
in the FY92 program, these projects have strong structural adjustment content and will rely to a large
extent on financial resources outside the budget for the national contribution to the financing, e.g. the
power and telecommunications companies; municipal budgets; and the beneficis, 's in the private
sector. The base case lending program would thus allow the momentum of struL viral reform to be
maintained in selected areas, despite continued weak budgetary performance in the near term.
46.   The base case program focusses on key Issues of economic development for Guinea set out
in paragraph 41: further privatization of the economy; removal of irfrastructure bottlenecks for the
private sector; improving public health; and protecting the environment.
*    -  A proposed Power Project will support the rehabilitation and expansion of the existing state-
owned power system in the Conakry area. At the moment, the supply of power for most
customers is limited to a few hours a day hampering production of small workshops, while
larger establishments are obliged to use expensive private generators. The Government will use
public bidding procedures to invite a private partner to take economic responsibilityfor operating
the state owned assets and selling the services. The local contribution to the financing of this
project will be funded from the private operating company's cash flow. The company will have
the contractual right to cut power supply - including to the Government - if bills are not paid.
Within the project a disposition fund will be created on which the private company can call if
the Government cannot fulfill its contractual obligations on a timely basis.
A Telecommunication project would privatize the operation and financial management of the
telecommunications network and restore this service essential for private sector development;
-     A second Private Sector operation would follow the on-going Private Sector SECAL and include
actions to develop financial intermediation, a function that the new private commercial banks
so far neglected;
-     A Transport and Urban Infrastructure project would aim at improving the physical infrastructure
in Conakry, and provide maintenance on the primary road network;
-     A Health and Nutrition project will, among others, address the most pressing needs of women
and the poor, but also include a component addressing family planning and the AIDS danger;
-     Two projects are planned to address environmental concerns, respectively for urban and rural
areas.
47.   The Hiah Case lending oroaram. The Bank would increase its lending program if, by the end
of 1992, the macroeconomic program as described in the PFP is back on track and key components
of the civil service and public enterprise reforms by the Govemment have been implemented. In order
to accelerate the adjustment program, particular attention will need to be given to:
-     the realization of substantial Increase In non-mining revenues, and adequate budget
disbursements for education and health, and of counterpart funding for foreign financed
projects;
-     the creation of a permanent system for civil service management and harmonization of
budgeted posts with the number of civil servants actually paid;
-     liquidation of the state owned petroleum distribution companies (ONAH and ASP); signature
of the private contract for running the power company (ENELGUI); and, issuance of bidding
documents for privatization of the telecommunications network.



- 12 -
48.   The high case lending program could include, in addition to the projects of the base case,
macroeconomic management TA and quick-disbursing operations (Privatization SECAL or SAL IlIl
focussed on fiscal reform, and a second Educathnn SECAL); increased Bank support for urban health
through a new water project; Improved rural productivity through an Agricultural Services project; the
extension of environmental lending to mining areas; and, a possible enclave IBRD investment project
in mining Itself. The high case could contain 13 projects over the FY93/95 period and could average
US$ 124 million IDA funds a year.
49.   The Low Case Lendina Proaram. If the structural adjustment program as described in the PFP
can not be put back on track, and the tranches of the quick-disbursing operations have to be canceled,
the Bank would move to a smaller program. The low case lending program would consist of one
project a year in the next three years averagino US$ 25-30 million a year and could comprise one
project in the health sector, an urban environment project, and a rural environment project.
Economic and Sector Work
50.   The economic work program will focus on the preparation of a fiscal reform program, in
particular on the non-mining revenues (tax exemptions, reforms of customs, Increasing taxation of
consumption). On the expenditure side, the focus will be on the need to establish procedures to
Increase spending on human and economic development and curtail ad hoc expenditures that are often
poltically motivated. Most sectoral concems are covered through analytical work undertaken in
connecdon with the existing project pipeline and lending program. In addition to this project-supported
study program, further support will be given to the development of a National Environment Policy
Framework (para. 61), and to new work to arrive at a concrete action program in the field of Women
In Development (para. 59).
Areas of Bank Initiative
51.   The special areas of emphasis of the Bank are deeply embedded in the design of existing and
new projects. These special Initiatives are often covered by more than one instrument. The following
paragraphs discuss these initiatives by topic: (i) Governance and Institution Building, (ii) Private Sector
Development, (iii) Human Resource Development, (iv) Poverty Reduction, and, (iv) Environmental
Protection.
52.   Govemarnce and Institution Building. While the macroeconomic decisions for a transition to a
market economy have mostly been taken, the institution buildina phase will take many more years.
The proposed FY92 proJects (Public Enterprise Rationalization and Privatization Technical Assistance
Project and Agricultural Export Promotion) emphasize reduction in public sector involvement and
creation of a posive regulatory environment for private sector operations. The Bank will assist the
Govemment in overhauling the tax departments and strengthen expenditure control through its
economic work program and a possible third Economic Management Technical Assistance operation.
53.   To address Issues of ovemance, the Bank will continue its support for civil service reform in
close cooperation with UNDP and the FAC, focusing particularly on the redesign of the organizational
structure of the civil service. Issues of corruption and theft of public goods will be approached through
promotion of transparency in financial operations and maximum privatization of activities. Through
its FY92 Public Enterprise Rationalization and Privatization Technical Assistance Project and a planned
FY95 Private Sector Operation, the Bank will support the rehabilitation of the judicial system,
particularly with regard to aspects conceming the commercial sector. The Govemment has produced
a first draft of a judiciary reform program which it is actively discussing with the Bank.
54.   Private Sector DeyW[imen. Support for private sector development is a central theme of the
Bank's entire country strategy. The Agricultural Export Promotion Project is based entirely on private
sector initiatives and includes a component to mobilize risk bearing capital. In its base case lending
program, the Bank has given high priority to the removal of infrastructure bottenecks, in particular in



- 13 -
roads, power and telecommunications. Another private sector lAnding operation is programmed for
FY95, mainly to address the existing problems in financial intermediation. The Bank is highly
concemed about urban unemployment and is reshaping its project approach to favor labor intensive
methods and local small scale enterprises, in particular through its Urban Environment, Roads,
Education and Health projects. The Bank plans to propose the establishment of a private sector
managed procurement and supervision agency that can efficiently deal with large numbers of small
contracts. The on-going Social Economic Development Support Project (PADSE) supports community
based projects; 16 of such sub-projects have been approved to date, and 32 more are in the pipeline.
55.  IFC Strateav in Guinea. IFC has three investments in Guinea: two in medium sized mines and
one In the largest commercial bank of Guinea. It is presently in the process of selling its shares In one
of the mines. IFC is discussing possible participation in the privatization of Guinea's international hotel
(GHI) and of the Daboys pineapple plant, the privatization of which would open the intemational market
to small scale growers around the estate. For the future, IFC is considering focussing more on the
commercial banks, that need consolidation and recapitalization. Through the Africa Enterprise Fund
IFC seeks to support small and medium sized indigenous businesses with more than 50 percent local
ownership - projects under discussion include a fishing net factory, a local transportation company,
and a bonded warehouse.
56.   FIAS and MIGA. With the investment climate in Guinea being one of the principal development
botdenecks in Guinea, the Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) and Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA) could play an important role in this country. In 1988, FIAS sent an advisory
mission, the conclusions of which were worked into the Private Sector Promotion SECAL approved by
the Board in FY90. Guinea signed the MIGA convention in September, 1989, but did not ratify. The
Bank is encouraging the Govemment to make the US$ 100,000 subscription to MIGA, as membership
would provide more security for foreign investments.
57.   Human Resource Development. The ongoing Education Sector Adjustment operation includes
a heavy emphasis on general participation in primary schooling, with particular attention to rural and
female students. The Bank is committed to protecting education expenditure against budget cuts, and
has a second education sector operation in its high case lending program, waiting for the results of the
on-going Education SECAL. This operation will continue the primary education reform begun under the
first operation and extend it to higher level education.
58.   The current IDA financed project is focussing on improvements in both quality and coverage
of health cars. The proposed Health and Nutrition Project included under the base case lending
program for FY93 would seek to consolidate the work initiated under the first IDA financed project and
address institutional as well as financial constraints. The operation will focus on increasing the
geographical coverage and improving the quality of basic health service. Among others, the project
will support priority programs in matemal and child health care, family planning and sexually
transmitted diseases, Including AIDS.
59.   The Bank is seeking to raise national consciousness about the economic position of women and
supports studies leading to the design of specific action programs to enhance their position. Women
constitute a specific target group for community development activities promoted under the PADSE
project. Other direct support for furtherance of women's issues in Guinea is provided under the
existing project pipeline in Health and Education.
60.   Poverty Reduction. Employment creation and human resource development are the twin bases
for poverty reduction, both representing key elements in the lending stratgy. The Bank's approach
to poverty alleviation stresses the importance of poverty monitoring through the development of social
indicators and household surveys. Direct interventions consist of self-help and community based
projects financed under the Socio-Economic Support Project. Guinea has an excellent climate for



- 14-
agriculture and land is still available. Rural poverty is therefore mostly a matter of underdevelopment.
and the Bank's agricultural lending program is designed to address this issue.
61.   Environmental Action Proaram. The Bank has initiated work on the design of a national
environmental action plan for Guinea, which is expected to be available in June 1993. It is also
carrying on a dialogue with the Govemment with a view to enhancing the priority it attaches to
environmental concems. Two projects are in preparation: one for urban sanitation and neighborhood
improvement through community participation, and another on soil erosion and reforestation in rural
areas.
62.   The enhanced lending program contains a mining project to finance, among others, the required
environmental investments by the mines. Regarding the mining of the Mount Nimba iron ore deposits
(para. 31), the Bank has advised the Government that, in light of its wild-lands policy, it will not
support this project. It also insisted that a full environmental impact study be made before the
Govemment decides on the possible mining of this deposit. The Bank is administering a Japanese
grant to make an environmental base line study in the Mount Nimba area and is studying the
possibilities of a debt-for-nature swap to help save the area.
63.   Through its FY90 forestry project, the Bank is involved in the issue of foreign refugees settling
in the protected forests. The Bank is financing some altemative employment opportunity for the
refugees in tree nurseries, but this does not provide employment on a scale sufficient to alleviate to
problem. The Bank is recommending strict implementation of the national policy regarding the
protection of the remaining rain forests and supports the settlement of refugees in adjacent areas
financed by other donors.
Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF
64.   The Bank and the IMF continue to cooperate closely in helping design and monitor
Govemment's structural adjustment efforts. Guinea's principal donors meet regularly in Conakry to
discuss issues such as privatization (December 1991), urban unemployment (March 1992) and debt
management (April 1992) to build consensus on the direction of donor assistance and coordinate the
policy dialogue with the Government. The interventions of the various donors are coordinated through
Sectoral Round Table Conferences in which the Government presents Its policies for sectors in which
donor investment is being sought: recent meetings of this kind have included the Agricultural sector
(September 1991), the Power sector (February 1992) and the Post and Telecommunications services
(April 1992). Further meetings are planned for the Health, Transport and Urban sectors, as well as for
the Civil Service Reform program. During these meetings donors decide on cofinancing of projects.
The meetings are also part of the preparation for a future Consultative Group, now scheduled for 1993,
depending on a satisfactory solution of the present macroeconomic and project implementation
problems. The Bank's Resident Mission has assumed a leadership role in this donor coordination.
Balance of payments aid is coordinated through the Special Program of Action for Africa, and the Paris
Club for debt rescheduling. The Bank is trying to improve donor coordination around the different
technical assistance initiatives and will continue to invite donor participation in the annual review of
the Public Investment Program.
Summary Assessment
65.   Guinea has achieved the transformation from a marxist to a market oriented economy in a very
short time. The Government has been vigorous in privatizing public enterprises and in pursuing actions
necessary scale down the administration. In so doing, it has accepted the political risks inherent in
temporarily increased urban unemployment. It has also reoriented its policies towards solving the
enormous social problems facing the country and is making steady progress in the field of education
and health. But the Govemment has been much less effective in mobilizing budget resources and
addressing basic issues of govemance which are crucial to achieving private sector growth. Most
notable of these is the need for more responsible and disciplined management of the public finances.



-15-
66.   The Bank is conscious that Guinea's structural problems have deep historical roots and
recognizes that they can only be overcome by patient and painstaking efforts to improve the human
resource and skills bases and to equip Guinea with effective Institutions. It also believes that progress
may slip without the presence of carefully formulated and persistently implemented macroeconomic
and social action programs in critical areas of the economy.
67.   Recent govemment decisions associated with the newly prepared investment and technical
assistance projects have shown continued commitment to further privatization of important economic
functions, a policy direction that the Govemment has developed in response to the weakness of the
public administration in Guinea, including public finance management. Although the fiscal situation is
not yet fully under control, Bank management proposes to support these privatization efforts and will,
for this reason, present this fiscal year for approval two projects with major privatization content and
minimum dependance on the budget funds. The Bank is using the policy dialogue around the existing
SAL and PFP to address the weaknesses in the fiscal policies; the release of the tranches of the
current quick-disbursing operations will be considered once their specific conditionality has been met
and a satisfactory macroeconomic framework is in place. If required actions are not taken, the lending
program would be reduced to a lower level. However, if the Government is able to bring its budget
problem under control and strengthen its capacity to absorb foreign aid, the Bank would consider
increasing its lending to the levels achieved luring the 1986-90 period.
PART 11. THE PROJECT
68.   Backaround. The rural sector is the mainstay of Guinea's economy, providing a livelihood to
over 75% of the population and generating about 30% of GNP. Agricultural production is still
predominantly based on smallholder farming and largely subsistence-oriented. Approximately 1.5
million ha is cultivated annually by about 770,000 families. Agricultural exports are presently low, but
historical analyses and comparison with neighboring countries suggest that they have substantial
potential, especially for horticultural products which are targoted by the proposed project. Mobilizing
this potential should ensure a substantive and balanced growth for agriculture and generate additional
foreign exchange to supplement traditional sources of export eamings.
69.   Under the structural adjustment program, since 1986, the Govemment has removed the
principal institutional and macroeconomic obstacles to agricultural production and export growth, in
particular by freeing domestic prices and markets, and by a large devaluation of the Guinean Franc,
followed by consistent market-oriented exchange rate policies. Equally important has been the
Govemment's emphasis on the rehabilitation of the primary and secondary road network and port
facilities, as well as the privatization of the deficient public enterprises in agriculture and supporting
sectors, including the banking system. The proposed project is consistent with this general thrust.
70.   Although the macroeconomic envir,,nment changed in favor of agriculture and substantial
progress has been made with the rehabilitation of the rural infrastructure, the supply response has
remained low, in particular regarding agricultural exports. The constraints to the supply response of
agricultural exports are in part due to the regulatory and institutional framework which still retains
inconsistencies and weaknesses that compromise its effectiveness. This difficulty is compounded by
the Inefficiency and lack of enforcement capability of the judiciary system. As a result, the overall
investment climate remains far from favorable, and does not give sufficient incentives for the private
sector to expand it's activities. Technical constraints further hamper agricultural zcports. These
constraints relate to such problems as the deficiency of agronomic research, the lack of specialized
extension services and the absence of access roads in the principal producing areas. The project will
aim to alleviate the above constraints with view to setting the stage for agricultural export growth.
71.   Proiect Obiectives and Strateav. The project's overall objective is to strengthen the incentives
framework and remove the obstacles to the supply response in the agricultural export sector. In this



-1 -
sector that offers promising investment opportunities, It will assist In the application of the policy
measures designed to create an enabling environment and strengthen the operational context for
private sector activities. The main strategic orientations are to: (a) support professional organizations
to strengthen the bargaining power of private operators vis-*-vis the Administration and enhance their
business capabRities; lb) provide the required support services to strengthen the operational context
in which private investments are made; (c) assist private Guinean operators to establish partnerships
with extemal investors to secure technical expertise, market outlets and funding for their export
businesses; and Id) support smaUholders and Small and Medium Enterprises considered the agents for
the long-term development of the sector; In the short-to-medium term, priority will also be given to the
nuceus estates which are better equipped to generate the critical mass of production and can be relied
upon to provide extension to surrounding outgrowers.
72.    E.   In support of the above strategy, the project will Include the following
components:
(a)   institution buildina- by strengthening professional organizations in the private sector
(12% of base costs);
(b)   suogort to oroduction In the agri-business export sector, by providing specialized
technical services (research, extension, and management assistance) and access roads
to producers - small and large, including producer groups and cooperatives (55% of
base costs);
(c)  fin2dal prourams addressing financial constraints to agricultural exports: the Mutual
Credit and Private Investment Fund schemes (15% of base costs); and
(d)   Drolect oreosration and manaaement. (18% of base costs), including preparation
activities financed by PPF (9%). The project will be implemented in dose liaison with
a proposcd EEC-financed Fruit Promotion Project that will include a specialized line of
credit and specific production-oriented components, such as quality control and
production of planting material.
73.   The project's institution building and management components will have national scope and
encompass all agricultural export industries, with the axception of rubber, palm oil and cotton which
are being developed under specialized projects. The project production components will focus on
horticultural products, and, amongs the latter, fresh pineapples and mangoes as they are the major
products that can generate the critical mass needed to give impetus to the horticultural sector. The
project will cover, as core zone of Intervention, six prefectures of the former 'banana triangle' in
Maritime Guinea and Fouta Djallon.
74.   Total project costs are estimated at US$24.6 million equivalent. The French FAC has
expressed its intention to co-finance the research component for an amount of approximately
US$600,000. Beneficiaries will contribute about US$700,000 (access roads and pilot actions) and
the Govemment US$2.5 million (mostly operating expenditures). The breakdown of these costs and
the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement,
and the disbursement schedule are presented in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events and the status of Bank Group operations are given in Schedule C and Schedule D respectively.
Two maps are also attached.
75.   ProWect Imemntation The project will be implemented through contracts with private/semi-
private entities and autonomous public projects/institutions. Overall project monitoving will be v.sted
with a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Planning. Project management responsibilities
wil be entrusted to a private consultant firm (the 'Project Manager'), under a management contract
with the Ministry of Planning. This contract wll provide for full delegation of authorit ('maltrise
d'ouvrage ddlMgudee) over project implementation up to US$150,000 as far as IDA financing Is



- 17 -
concemed and GNF50 million for govemment counterpart funding. The above organizational structure
will enable to serve the objectives set out in establishing the management mechanism for the project,
i.e.: (a) maximum participation by the private sector; (b) operational autonomy in daily project
implementation; (c) adequate dialogue/interface between the private sector and policy-making bodies;
and Id) proper monitoring and evaluation of project activities, Including permanent control of project
accounts.
76.   Prois'  Suaina . The main thrust of the project is to develop viable private sector
activities in the agricultural export sector. The underlying objective is that this development be self-
sustaining. The following features are specifically built in the project design to ensure a sustainable
institutional impact: (a) the 'non-project! functions assumed by the Project Manager, in particular the
function of coordination and monitoring of activities in the agricultural export sector, will be transferred
to professional organizations (including the Chamber of Commerce) at project completion; (b) the
project will ensure that the private sector institutions being supported will Increasingly generate their
own resources (from membership fees, sale of services and/or proceeds of para-fiscal taxes, etc.) so
that they become financially self-supporting; {c) the technical assistance programs envisaged for the
public agencies that will execute part of the project are designed in such a way that the local
counterpart staff will gradually take over the functions of the internationally-recruited consultants;
training, to be provided in different forms as part of all project components, will also greatly contribute
to capacity building in these agencies; and (d) the beneficiaries of the access roads component will be
requested to participate upfront, so that they develop a feeling of ownership over the roads being
rehabirltated, and therefore accept to properly maintain them thereafter.
77. Lessons Learnt from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. The Bank/IDA-financed export crop
proJects have generally concerned specific crop(s), with emphasis on production arrangements. Only
a few have primarily focussed on marketing aspects and fewer have addressed the operational
environment of the agricultural export sector as a whole. This has accounted for a number of the
project failures which have been encountered, especially in countries like Guinea where the enabling
environment and the operational context - taken for granted in other countries - just did not exist.
A case in point is the Guinea Daboya Plantation ProJect (FY74) designed to produce pineapples on a
nucleus estae, which failed because downstream activities (marketing in particular) were handled by
a parastatal which had neither the procedural framework nor the capacity to operate effectively. Other
failures have resulted from poor operational management, especially where large inefficient parastatals
were involved (e.g. HEVECAM and SODECAO projects In Cameroon). The project will avoid the above
dangers by focussing on private operators, addressing downstream activites as well as production,
and taking a comprehensive view at the export crop sector.
78.   Rationale for IDA Involvement. Under the on-going SAL If and Private Sector Support
programs, and proposed Public Enterprise reform project, IDA is supporting broad economic reforms
that have generated significant growth since 1986, mainly as a result of private supply response in
agriculture, trade, utiities and services. The project will be a necessary complement to this program
as a means to elicit further private supply response in agriculture, thereby helping sustain growth in
the medium term. The project will complement efforts undertaken under the SAL to diversify sources
of foreign exchange. The project will be part of IDA's stratgy to tke a comprehensive view at
agricultural development, by assWing the Government in irnplementing the sector-wide policy changes
and investments required to further strengthen the incentives framework for productive acS:mes.
79.   Aareed Acdons. The Letter of Agricultural Export Policy Development (LPDEA) has been agreed
at negotations. This document reflects the Govemment's strategy for agricultural exports and will
serve as framework for project implementation. The folloving other agreements have been reached
at negotiatons:
(a)   the Govemment will use the proceeds of the IDA credit to finance services/management
contracts for the  executon  of certain  project components by  nudous
estate companies (US$2.5 million) and by the CrEdit Mutuel Company (US$1.2 million);



-18-
lb)   the private consultant firm hired as Project Manager will have full delegation of
authority over project implementation;
(c)   a contribution amounting to at least 15% of total rehabilitation cost will be paid upfront
by the beneficiaries of the access roads component; and
{d)   the Project Manager will be responsible for preparing (i) semi-annual progress reports,
{i) the Mid-Term Review report, and (iii) the Project Completion report.
80.   In addition, the following conditions will apply to Credit effectiveness and disbursement:
(a)   for Credit effectiveness, the Government will establish the project Steering Committee
w ith composition and membership acceptable to IDA;
(b)   for disbursement against the Chamber of Commerce component, the Government will
adopt the new statutes of the Chamber of Commerce and will make them effective;
and
(c)   for disbursement against part of the expenditures incurred for the implementation of
the Private Investment Fund scheme, the Govemment will sign a corresponding
subsidiary loan agreement with the Fund Management Company under terms and
conditions (including interest rate and foreign exchange risk) satisfactory to IDA.
81.   Environmental Asoects. Developing export crops on a commercial basis in the context of
Guinea means intensifying agriculture. Such an intensification will contribute to decreasing the
incidence of itinerant cropping which is very destructive to the environment. Intensifying smallholder
horticultural crops will typically involve bottomiands development. Such development will be
undertaken using the Ubas-fonds complex approach which aims at managing the entire watersheds
of the targeted areas and is therefore highly beneficial for the conservation of the environment. This
approach has been successfully implemented in the IDA-financed Gueckedou Area Development project
(Cr. 1 635-GUI) recently completed. Rehabilitation of the mango plantatiohs will enhance the protective
function of the mango trees. This rehabilitation will involve mostly grafting existing trees with no
uprooting. The creation of new plantations will not involve any land clearing. Potential health
problems due to chemical treatments will be avoided, as phyto-sanitary control will be tightened and
issuance of the quality labels will only be given to products that are free of chemicals. Road
rehabilitation will not Involve any land clearing, and will be carried out in a manner consistent with the
provisions of the Bank guidelines for environmental preservation. An environmental assessment was
completed as part of project prepartion. Its recommendations have been incorporated in project
design.
82.   Prooram Obiectives Cateaories. The project relates to the Bank's private sector development
program in Guinea. It also relates to the Bank's anti-poverty program, as it aims to support small
outgrowers at the periphery of nucleus estates and small independent planters, and assist the
development of Small/Medium Enterprises In rural areas which will generate employment for the very
poor.
83.   Proiect Benefits. The main project benefit will accrue from supporting a development strategy
targeting private operators, in a sector that offers promising development opportunities. The project
will aim at getting the reform measures effectively applied in this sector, thereby helping to create an
enabliig environment in the entire economy. In this respect, it will be a necessary complement to the
IDA-supported reform program. The project's goals which are geared to the short-to-medium term will
also complement those pursued under other Bank projects aimed at the long-term development of the
agricultural sector, in particular the on-going Research and Extension project (FY89). The institution-
building component - aimed at private sector institutions - will make the strategy operational.
Increased export activities will result: (a) at the micro-level in increased incomes for the private



- 19-
operators (small and large) doing business in the various agricultural export industries; and lb) at the
macro-level, in the establishment of a broader base for economic growth, including diversification of
the sources of foreign exchange.
84.   Risk. The major risk is that the business climate may not improve on account of factors
outside project control. This risk will be minimized by: (a) the effective application of policy measures
requested as part of the IDA-supported Private Sector Support program; these measures are designed
to strengthen the incentives framework; lb) the overall support and coaching provided under the project
to private-oriented activities that will act as catalyst to restore confidence amongst investors; and
(c) the strengthening of the Chamber of Commerce and professional organizations that will help
empower the private secor and defend its interests vis-a-vis the Administration.
85.   Another risk, also in great part outside project control, is the continued reluctance of
commercial banks to provide term credit for agricultural export businesses. This risk will be mitigated
by: (a) the application of specific policy measures requested as part of the Private Sector Support
program and Public Enterprise reform project (conceming in particular the establishment of bank
guarantees and the strengthening of the judiciary system); (b) the implementation, under the project,
of the Private Investment Fund scheme under which equity funds will be provided; and (c) the
establishment of a specialized line of credit, as part of the proposed EEC-funded Fruit Promotion
Project.
86.   A technical risk is that the advanced techniques required to produce non-traditional crops and
adapt to the requirements of the rapidly evolving extemal markets may not be introduced in a timely
fashion. To address such a risk: (a) on the production side, the project will provide specialized
technical support so that appropriate technologies be incorporated into research programs and
disseminated to producers In a timely fashion; the nucleus estates will be Instrumental to achieve the
latter objective; and lb) on the marketing side, the institution support component will provide the
necessary commercial information and help Guinean operators establish partnerships with foreign
operators.
87.   Another operational botleneck may be the insufficient supply of fertilizer and planting material
to smallholders. This bottleneck is specifically addressed by the proposed EEC-funded Fruit Promotion
Project; it will be eased also as estates gradually produce plants on a commercial basis and supply
inputs under seasonal production contracts to outgrowers, and as small-and-medium size enterprises
establish themselves with project support to also provide production services and inputs.
88.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve It.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington D.C.,
May 29, 1992
Attachments



-20 -
REPtULIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPNRT PRONOTION PROJECT
Estimated Prolect Costs and Financins Plan
Est1mated Protect Costs                          LocaL        Foreln _   Total              % Of
....-.. -USS Nition ----------         Bae Costs
A. Institutfon Develooment
1.  Institution Support Comp.                 0.3           1.0           1.3             6
2.  Chamber of Comerce                        0.2           0.4           0.6             3
3.  Profess1onal Organizations                                                            3
Subtotal                            0.7            1.7           2.4            12
8. Progdtion Sunoort
1.  Extensfon                                0.8            2.0           2.8            14
2.  Adaptive Research                         0.6           1.7           2.3            11
3.  Siall/Nedium Enterprises                  0.3           1.0            1.4            6
4.  Prod. groups/Coops                        0.6           0.9            1.5            7
5.  Access Roads                              1.0           2.4           3.4            17
Subtotal                            3.3            8.0          11.3           55
C. ecfat Proa_ 
i. Nututl Credit                              0.4           0.7           1.1             5
2.  Private Investment Fund                   0.            1.6            .             10
Subtotal                            0.8            2.3           3.1            15
D. Proleet Precaration and Manawsemnt
i.  Project  anagement                        0.9           1.1           2.0             9
2.  Project Preparation Facflity /            0.            1.7           la             92
Subtotal                            1.1            2.8           3.9            18
Total Base Costs                                  5.9          14.8          20.7           100
Physical Contingencies                        0.4           1.0            1.4            7
Price Contingencies                           1.4           1.1           2.5            12
Total Project Costs (including taxes)             7.7          16.9           24.6          119
Taxes                                                                          1 9
Total Project Costs (net of taxes)                             169F              7
A/    Including five PPF adwvanes against the present credit totalling USS 1.5 million, and one PPF
advance agafnst Cr. 1626-WI amouting to USS430,000.
Ffn£ mirA   Plan                                 Local        Foreipn         Total
-.....US$  ltion--------
Government                                        2.3           0.2            2.5
IDA                                               4.7          16.1          20.8
FAC                                                 -           0.6           0.6
Beneficiaries                                     0.7          ;              k
Total                                                            UN-



-21-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORt PROMOTION PROJECT
Prgcuexent ArrgDBg=ent  I/
__m                    ICS             LCB              Other             Ccf f/           1211k
-US  il..............l..........   - #ition--------------------------
1. CiviL Works                     3.4             0.7                 -               0.7              4.8
(3.0)           (0.7)                -                 -             (3.7)
2.  Vehicles                       0.6                -              0.2                 -               0.8
(0.6)                             (0.2)                              (0.8)
3.  Goods and Eauimnent                             0.6              0.2                 -               0.8
(0.6)            (0.2)                -              (0.8)
4. Technical Assistance
a)  Short-Term                                                   2.2                 -              2.2
-   -         (1.7)                -              (1.7)
b)  Resident                                      -              2.0               0.6              2.6
-L.U -   f2          -(2.0)
Subtotal                                          -              4-2-              U                4.8
-   -         (3.7)                -              (3.7)
5. Numt./Services Contracts                                          7.9                 -               7.9
-  .T(7.9)                         -              (7.9)
6.  Traininf                                          -              1.2                 -               1.2
-   -         (0.8)                -              (0.8)
7.  Ooeratina Costs                  -                -              2.4                 -               2.4
*   *         (1.2)                -              (1.2)
8.  PPF Refinancina                                                  1.9                                 1.9
-         ~~~(1.9)            0-9
Total                          4.0             1.3              18.0               1i              24.6
(3.6)           (1.3)            (15.9)                -            (20.8)
Amounts In parentheses indicate IDA financino
i/ Contribution by beneficiaries (US$0.7 Million) would be done mostly in kirnd. The value of their work/irputs
would be estimated at governrent tariffs. Parallel financing by FAC (US$0.6 Million) would be done under
FAC's own procedures.



- 22
P"o a of a
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICLTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Disbursemant of IDA Credit
A. Dlsbursement Caterories
USO Nillion       X of ExpendIt.
C^m8torY                      E9M~~~~~oivatent   To  eFnn
1.  Civil Uorks                            3.0         100 (Foreign currency)
80 (National. currency)
2.  Vehicles, goods and equiprent
except for the Chamber of Comnorce      1.4                100
3. Vehicles, goods, equipment,
training and operating expenditures
for the Chamber of Commerce            0.6                 100
4. T.A., training and mbpt./
services contracts except
for the Chamber of Commerce and
the Private Fund Scheme                9.0                 100
S. Private Investment Fund Scheme J         2.0                100
6. Operating expenditures                   1.0          Declining bass i
7.  W F RefinancIng                         1.9                100
S. Unallocated                              1.9
Total                                   20.8
jV      Two ontending agreements
100% for payents made through Deceaber 31, 1993, ond 67% thereafter.
*             5B.  Oigrseot Schodtl
IDA Fiswat lYer
im  i    mmu im
..----------- -US* lion---.
Annusl                        2.8     3.5      4.6     4.2     2.6     1.9      1.2
Cumulative                    2.6     6.3    10.9    15.1    17.7    19.6    20.8



-23-
P"o I of I
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Jimetable of Key Proiect Prtcesuina Evanta
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                            2.5  "ars
(b)    Prepared by:                                      Government and IDA
(c)    First IDA mission:                               January 1989
(d)    Appraisal mission departure: y                    May 1991
(el    Negotiations:                                     May 1992
tf)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:                    September 1992
(g)    Ust of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:                   None
f/     Key staff responsible for project preperation and appraisal are:  messrs. Jesn-Clwdb Salcet (Senior
Agricultural Economist/Task Nanager), Yovan Groultch (Senior Agriculturalist). setrtnd de Chazt
(Financial Analyst) and Siaks 8akayoko (Financial Analyst).



.24-
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC °F WIRER
IATIOIIAL ACRICtLUAL  lPM NRtTION PROJECT
(as of 05/22/92)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                     Undis-    Closing
Credit No.    resr         P urnose               Bank       IDA         Bureed    Date
-- ------------------------- USS mfilion ------------------
Credits
20 Credits(s) closed                                        229.30
C12340-GUI    1982         INDUSTRY REKAB (DFC)              19.00         .22      12/31/91(R)
C13410-GUI    1983         EDUCATION II                      11.00         .89      12/31/90(R)
C16360-WU     1986         FIRST AG SERVICES                  7.50        3.30      06/30/92
C17250-W1     1987         LIVESTOCK SECTOR REN    -          9.80       577       12/31/92
C18150-GWI    1987         TRANS SECT              -        55.00        25.43      06/30/92
C18370-GUI    1988         POP/NEALTH                        19.70        8.30      12/31/93
C18640-GUI    1988         AGRIC.SEEDS             -         9.00         2.89      06/30/94
C19150-GU1    1988         HIGHWAYS IV             -        55.00        45.82      12/31/93
C19260-GUI(S) 1988         SAL 11                  .        65.00        35.62      12/31/90
C19550-GUI    1989         RESEARCH EXTENTION      *         18.40       12.35      12/31/94
C19630-GUI    1989         SECOND ECN NGT SUPPO    -         14.50        2.70      06/30/94
C19850-WU1    1989         WATER It                -        40.00        28.32      10/31/96
C19950-UI(S) 1989          SDA                               9.00         8.36      12/31/94
C20680-GUI    1990         FORESTRY & FISHERY N    -         8.00         6.06      06/30/94
C21060-WI     1990         NAT RURAL INFRASTRUC    -        40.00        36.99      12/31/95
C21120-GUI    1990         SECOND URBAN                     57.00        53.47      12/31/95
C21480-GUI    1990         PRIVATE SECTOR PRaMO    *        50.00        26.51      09/30/92(R)
C21550-GUI(S) 1990         EDUC SEC ADJ PROGRAM    -        20.00        14.80      06/3093
TOTAL number Credits  18                                    507.90      317.52
3 Loans closed                    73.50
Total*                    73.50                     737.20
(of which repaid)       70.22                      (3.09)
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA   3.28                     734.11      317.69
(of which undisbursed)
Notes:
*       Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and
Credits.
(R)     Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S)     Indicates SAL/Secal Loans and Credits.
The *et Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and as it
taken from the Task Budget file.



- 25
,PLIC aF 01MM
lATIOL AG         RTIUAL a    PUTI       OJECT
Srv of IFC In
(As of April 30, 1992)
Original Gross Comm1tment
LQn        EmUX tv     XTtd
Fiseal                                           Type of
UKar      Ob-ijar                                Business           .........US*  min-IC.......
1983      SociWt  Nixte Aredbr Guind. S.A.       Diamond  ininag    U.6          1.2         14.8
1986     Banque Internmt10nsl pour 1o            Comrciesl  ank       -          1.0          1.0
Commerce et de tCindustrie de to
Guinde (BidC-GUI)
1987      Socdt4 International des Cranites     Research and         0.1                     0.1
Narbres et Roches Assimild.s          Development
(SIGMAR)
1988     Aurifere de Guinee                     Gold Mininong                    -_ _. 
Total caumitments                                         21.2         2.2        23.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repanets, Sales                       .....
and Exchvn8e Adjustments
met Cocedtmonts now hetd by lFC                            LI          L2         ILC



--                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 23527
S E N  E  GAL              ,i-  L
.._ . . . . . . . . . . . .GUINEA
4    ~i              1ndonc      1                             M A L I                                NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
G U I N E A - xi. b 7-'\.  hv-44-t                                                                                         '        EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
ossoloPROJECT LOCATION
12-                                                                                                                                                                                12
MAURITANI                                                                                    EE                           , -i;3             D'IVOIRE|
pS    N   AURITNIA        +BRN                      Iternotionollpr in me)8               U    iJtt..  l                                      i
c SENEA                                                  0                                                                          L  olA 
S}StGINERA                                          200                                                                                                 Tb. Wnd 8  etr:/ ,  n  
Y,  f.J' C0TE DIYOIRE                                                             j                                                               Di T. bd 8-LEN
wti8ERIA  5      j         ~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 0 40  80      120    100n 110s dnoinh                                                                   .   od.P,*"
3..  _.TA/I                                       8 ht ........                ...   .......... tLS01820    20  60    80  100                     ToA d  , \ko,,|;Sum1em
P.-d R (f  >                                      L 4E R I A    w                ?      r 4; 1
AJI--.flr R-&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
MAURITANIA  A14i.1d,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERUE 0



IEED 23528-
O -/                                     MOY             N E                     AoololM  N  E
K                                                                                                D.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
/   6 a ;' ':                                                                           b--t.'
.   r    L    ,^    \t   I   '   L   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G         
*              .7~ ~ ~~~~~~ N 7 
0 C E A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
O iO 210 L0 500t}5 SIERRA LEONE /
0 20      A?      N?          R OOM
20      o      hR     So mm                                                                                                                              INE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL                                      K
r*  +._   MAURITANIA                                               i W             >\                                                    EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT                                         N
SENGA    r.>  ._ __.,                                   </;   3>\t, t&)p,3Ri K-,                                                          PROJECT LOCATION
MALI                Con       k                                                                     PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                        PAVEDROA0S
TIIEGAMNA t-.9< ' + eO h°N  - ; oPROJECT A NTENNA ALWEATHER ROADS
T-                                                                                                                    r    ] J 9 / A >,U,i,  h   0    COAG AND PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS  RAILROADS
J                            _. j _ -Bit  URBINA                                                   /NVA                                                                  RIVERS
GUINEAt                                     FASO                                           /      *                                 1     AG                                         INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
BISSAU          GUINEA                                                                                                             03   NUCLEUS ESTATES                        1    AIRFIELDS
0    PDMCG                    *                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
Co. A *       \                                                  t                                                                PNIR                                   0    ADMINISTRATVE REGION CAPITALS
."SIRRRA                                               dII   CREDIT MUTUEL                                                                                        a    PREPECTURE CARTALS
E If"l,, J   COTED'IVOIRE                                                                                           PROJECT BOUNDARY CORE INVESTMENTS)           PREFECTURE BOUNDARJES
I *'    J               gz i                                                                                          ELEVATION IN METERS                         ADINSTERATIVE REGION BOUNDAPIES
-,          LIRERIA t .-                                                                                                        I,REB -R A                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FEBRUARY 1992



