                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26075

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-24070)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.2 MILLION (US$21.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                                                 FOR A

                   NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT




                                                06/30/2003




Rural Development Unit II
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2002)

                                 Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GF)
                                     GF 1,000 = US$ 0.5236
                                     US$ 1.00 = GF 1,910

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGEXPHA  Association of exporters of fishery products
AGRIFEL  Fédération des agro-industriels de fruits et légumes
AMLGF    Agricultural marketing guarantee fund
CAFEX    Centre de facilitation des exportations
CCIAG    Chamber of commerce, industry and agriculture of Guinea
CLIFEL   Comité de liaison interprofessionnel des fruits et légumes
DNGR     Direction nationale du génie rural
IRAG     Institut de recherche agronomique de Guinée
NGO      Non governmental organization
PMU      Project Management Unit
PNIR 2   Second National Rural Infrastructure Project (Projet national d'infrastructures rurales)
REFLEG   Regroupement des exportateurs des fruits et légumes




                               Vice President:      Calisto E. Madavo
                            Country Manager:        Jan Weetjens
                              Sector Manager:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Amadou Oury Diallo

                                                GUINEA
                  National AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
     6. Sustainability                                                                13
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
     9. Partner Comments                                                              17
     10. Additional Information                                                       17
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
     Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    32
Map: IBRD No. 23527

Project ID: P001068                                                      Project Name: National AGRICULTURAL
                                                                         EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Team Leader: Amadou Oury Diallo                                          TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: National AGRICULTURAL EXPORT                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-24070
                            PROMOTION PROJECT
   Country/Department: GUINEA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (25%); Agricultural
                            marketing and trade (25%); Central government administration
                            (19%); Roads & highways (16%); General finance sector (15%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Trade facilitation and
                            market access (P); Rural non-farm income generation (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/23/1989                                        Effective: 06/25/1993              11/05/1992
   Appraisal:    05/25/1991                                            MTR: 02/01/1995                01/28/2002
    Approval:    07/02/1992                                         Closing: 12/31/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Guinea/Ministry of Trade; Government of Guinea/Industry and
                                           Small and Medium Enterprises
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             V.E. Kimberley Jaycox
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Michael J. Gilette
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Théodore Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:             Amadou Ourry Diallo                            Jean-Claude Balcet
ICR Primary Author:             Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo; Amadou
                                Oury Diallo; Jean-Paul Chausse


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:N

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

No Quality at Entry Review was carried out for this project. A review was planned close to credit closing. In
consultation with the TTL it was agreed that it was too late in the project cycle and the review should therefore be
cancelled.

The quality at entry rating is based on the restructured project as it was presented to the Board in November
1997.

The project had two mid-term reviews. The first was prior to its restructuring in May 1995. The date used in the
Key Dates section above was for the mid-term review mission after project restructuring.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to promote strong growth in Guinea's agricultural exports by:
strengthening the incentives framework and removing the obstacles to the supply response in the
agricultural export sector. Given the broad range and depth of problems identified in the Staff Appraisal
Report, the project's objective was very ambitious both in terms of the range of issues it was supposed to
tackle and in terms of expected incremental exports. In addition, given the weak institutional climate and
poorly capitalized private sector, it was unclear even at the time whether the project could elicit a
production response, as evidenced by comments made at the various review stages. The supporting policy
letter was also vague and lacked the required specifics, especially concerning the timing of required policy
changes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was substantially restructured in 1996 and 1997 to address the serious difficulties encountered
during implementation. The original overall objective of the project was still judged relevant by the team
restructuring the project and was resubmitted to the Board of Directors. The project was, however,
substantially restructured and refocused and a refining of the objective would have been in order at the
time.   The restructured project was much more focused on removing specific physical obstacles to
agricultural exports (port construction and airport terminals, processing facilities and warehouses) and
reflected lessons learned from similar projects in other African countries.               As part of restructuring
conditionality, Government adopted measures to address the seventeen constraints identified in the Staff
Appraisal Report.

3.3 Original Components:
In support of the above objective, the original project included four components:
·       Institutional strengthening, through the strengthening of professional organizations dealing with the
export sector (US$2.4 million);
·       Support to export production, by providing specialized technical services (research, extension,
management assistance, etc.) to producers (small and large, including cooperatives); this component
included access roads to open up producing areas (US$11.3 million);
·       Special Programs (mutual credit and Private Investment Fund) addressing financial constraints to
agricultural exports (US$3.1 million); and
·       Project Management and monitoring of sector activity, by funding a project management contract
with a private consultant firm (US$3.9 million).

Although the components were well matched to the project's objective, they each included a large number of
sub-components that made implementation difficult to manage in view of the existing very limited capacity,
both on the side of the intended beneficiaries and on the side of public and private support services. It is
also not clear whether the design team had properly evaluated the project implementation timetable. The



                                                        - 2 -

analysis of the agricultural export sector in the SAR showed that a large number of regulatory and
administrative constraints existed which drastically increased the riskiness of private investments and the
costs and competitivity of exports and hence their profitability. Thus it was clear from the start that unless
these bottlenecks were resolved and civil servants appropriately trained, investments in other areas could
not bear fruit. This was one important point raised during the internal review of the project. On the basis
of the analysis it may have been better if the project had been divided in well sequenced phases, with the
first phase aiming at implementing the main institutional and regulatory reforms that were identified as
substantially adding to export costs; and one or more follow-up phases focusing on alleviating physical
bottlenecks in areas with specific agronomic advantages. It is clear that the project as originally designed
tried to do too much, even within the unusually long implementation period proposed at entry (from 1993 to
1999 or seven years). The complexity and ambitiousness of the project was implicitly recognized by the
clearly identified requirement to delegate management responsibility of the project to a team of external
technical assistants with substantial management autonomy, as Government lacked the capacity to
implement this project.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was substantially restructured in 1996. The decision to restructure the project was based on
the poor results obtained and the completely changed environment since project appraisal. Shortly after
effectiveness in June 1993, it had become apparent that the project could not be implemented as planned
because several of the agricultural enterprises in Guinea it had counted on working with had ceased to
operate. In the two years following effectiveness, very little impact had been obtained with high overhead
costs, which was underscored by a technical and financial audit. It was therefore agreed with Government
in 1995 to stop project implementation until the project had been adequately restructured and a new
management team, satisfactory to IDA, been put in place. The revised project was approved late in 1997
and had the following components:

·        Investment in transport infrastructure and logistics, thus adressing physical constraints in
transporting, handling and storing of agricultural output prior to shipment abroad (US$3.5 million);
·        Establishment of an export financing facility, through the Agricultural Marketing Guarantee Fund
(AMLGF) in cooperation with USAID (US$2.0 million);
·        Reforms in the overall regulatory and institutional framework for private sector development in
agricultural production and exports, and by                  providing direct support to individual or groups
of exporters (US$1.0 million); and
·        Pilot activities for providing direct support to selected individual or groups of exporters.

It appears from the different documents in project files that the restructuring of the project had been well
prepared given budgetary constraints and that the different components made a realistic action plan to
resolve key bottlenecks. The Government had agreed to implement a series of measures that would address
the seventeen constraints identified as part of the original preparation of the project. These measures were
adopted prior to the restructured project being presented to the Board to ensure that project implementation
could start smoothly. An implementation plan would have been helpful to the PMU even though the project
was well designed. The philosophy very much remained optimistic and that there would be a strong
production response even though little investment had been made to date and the revised project still
identified seven key obstacles to a production response that needed to be overcome during only four years
of project implementation (the closing date was extended by one year as part of project restructuring).

Project management was not identified as a separate component in the Memorandum of the President, even
though the project had a standard Project Management Unit (PMU). Project implementation arrangements



                                                       - 3 -

had, however, been substantially revised and the PMU structure now consisted entirely of national staff.
The PMU was placed under the Ministry of Commerce but retained substantial autonomy. The objective
was to make the project as independent as possible from Government interference. This ended up being a
major weakness also, as Government technical services and decision makers were insufficiently involved in
project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A QAG review had been suggested at the time of the Africa Region's internal review for the credit
extension in 2001. No QAG was, however, carried out for the project prior to credit closing, because the
then TTL felt that the incremental value of the exercise would be limited.

The Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the restructured project, dated November 17, 1997, states
that the project encountered implementation problems almost from effectiveness because:                 (i) the
complexity of project design; (ii) the conflictive set-up for project management; (iii) the lack of cooperation
between line Ministries; (iv) the fact that several private entities identified at appraisal for project
implementation went into bankruptcy soon after credit effectiveness and (v) a lack of capacity of the
professional organizations of agricultural export producers and exporters. Given the rapidity with which
the project encountered such problems, it begs the question whether the design team had properly evaluated
the capacities of the project's beneficiaries and implementing partners.

The restructured project was simplified but retained its ambitious objectives. It is not clear why these were
not redefined at the time in line with the simplification of the project. Given the budget constraints the
restructured project could not address all issues but did not make this clear in the MOP. Also, the
restructured projet based its economic viability on optimistic assumptions for the barge feedering system
that were fraught with a high degree of uncertainty. As was common at the time, the project lacked an
implementation plan that would have been useful to the management team in following up on project
implementation progress.

The ICR mission judges the initial quality at entry of the original project as highly unsatisfactory and of
the restructured project as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project failed to achieve its objective of strengthening the incentives framework and remove the
obstacles in the agricultural export sector and elicit an increase in agricultural exports. As originally
designed and implemented between 1993 and 1995, the project is rated as highly unsatisfactory. The
redesigned project is rated unsatisfactory. The overall rating of the project is unsatisfactory. These
ratings are based on the following findings:

l the project was able to address a large number of the total of 23 obstacles identified at appraisal (17)
    and at restructuring (6), however, this did not lead to the expected supply response: at the time of
    credit closing, agricultural exports for key commodities were at roughly the same level they were at the
    time of credit effectiveness;
l the project did not support the desired increase in foreign direct investment in agriculture from US$4.0
    million per year to US$8.0 million per year;
l the project failed to improve access of exporters to the formal banking system;
l many of the key constraints identified at the time of appraisal and project restructuring were still
    present at the time of credit closing (most of the administrative ones had been resolved); and



                                                      - 4 -

l the physical investment program of both the original and the restructured project was partially
    implemented and with great delays; follow-on investments are required to complete some of what was
    described in the MOP as the project's key investments (the terminal at the airport where the key access
    roads were not done and the barge feedering system where the important port infrastructure
    investments and the bouying of the navigable channel still need to be done).

The detailed output by component is presented below.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Original Project

I. Institutional strengthening. The component is rated unsatisfactory. The project was to provide
support to existing professional organizations dealing with entire export chains (filières), or with specific
horizontal activities in support of exports, such as transport and forwarding activities, and the Chamber of
Commerce, Industry and Agriculture of Guinea (CCIAG). The project was not successful in its central
institutional objective of promoting the development of private professional organizations in the agricultural
export sector able to: (i) influence government policies and defend the interests of their members; and (ii)
provide its members with services that were at that point in time assumed by Government.

At the time of project effectiveness several professional organizations existed for fresh fruit and vegetables,
coffee and fisheries: (i) CLIFEL (Comité de liaison interprofesionnel des fruits et legumes); (ii) the
Federation of Horticulturists; (iii) the Federation of Fruit and Vegetable Processors (AGRIFEL,
Fédération des agro-industriels de fruits et legumes); and (iv) REFLEG (Regroupement des exportateurs
des fruits et legumes); (v) Association of Coffee and Cocoa Exporters (APEC); and (vi) Guinean Fisheries
Association. Shortly after effectiveness it became apparent that most of these organizations were poorly
structured and organized. The project had only limited success in strengthening them and improving their
effectiveness and sustainability. Due to members' limited ability to pay membership fees, most of these
organizations were financially struggling at the end of the project.

The project was successful in providing support to the CCIAG for the creation of a performing one-stop
window, the Center for Corporate Formalities (Centre des formalités des enterprises) to resolve red tape
for companies wanting to invest in Guinea. To date, the Center is functioning satisfactorily and is funded
from user fees and a Government budgetary allocation.

II. Support to export production. The component is rated unsatisfactory. The project was to provide
specialized technical services (research, extension, management assistance, etc.) to producers (small and
large, including cooperatives); this component included the rehabilitation/construction of 550 km of access
roads to open up producing areas. By the time the decision was taken to restructure the project, very little
had been achieved under this component. There were serious delays in completing the contracts with the
national extension and research services.

The large plantations identified at appraisal, which were to become the centerpiece of the project's strategy
to increase production through a nucleus-outgrowers system, lacked technical and financial viability. The
project did sign agreements with thirteen nuclei to provide support services to smallholders in exchange for
project support (equipment, incremental operating costs, etc.). The technical audit carried out in 1995
showed that only a few of the nuclei were able to provide the expected support services. The project also
signed an agreement with the national extension service for the provision of specialized services. Of the
contract amount of GNF 575 million, about one-third was disbursed even though the extension service
lacked the technical capacity to provide the required services. A different problem was encountered with


                                                     - 5 -

the agricultural research institute IRAG (Institut des recherches agronomiques) with whom the project
was only able to sign an agreement after a long delay. IRAG was able to fulfill only part of its contractual
obligations: test plots were established on three nuclei for the production of pineapples and mangoes.

The roads component was less than five percent completed (20.1 km) at twice the cost per kilometer
estimated at appraisal. It was implemented by the National Directorate for Rural Infrastructure (DNGR,
Directorat general de genie rurale).

III. Special Programs (Credit and Private Investment Fund). This component is rated unsatisfactory.
These programs were aimed at providing access to working capital for agricultural enterprises and thus
addressing financial constraints to agricultural exports. The SAR stated that high transaction costs and the
absence of guarantees for obtaining loans from the formal sector and high interest rates in the informal
sector virtually eliminated access to credit for commercial farmers. In order to address these constraints the
project was to support the establishment of a branch office of the credit union (Crédit Mutuel) and provide
equipment, support for operating costs and technical assistance. Secondly the project was to facilitate the
intermediation of equity funding through assistance in a Private Assistance Fund, modalities for which
would be detailed during project implementation.

The activities did not get off the ground because of problems related to putting adequate safeguards in
place or finding interested partners. The project did support the creation of a branch office of the credit
union in Mamoué at a cost of US$81,000. Shortly afterwards, the credit union system in Guinea was found
to not be viable and it was closed down.

IV. Project Management and monitoring of sector activity. This component is rated unsatisfactory.
The credit was to fund a project management contract with a private consultant firm based on the premise
that existing national public institutions did not have the required capacity to manage this type of
cross-sectoral project. A consulting firm was selected as planned. However, the relationship between the
foreign technical assistant and the civil servants was adversarial from the start which undermined project
management and implementation. After a review and remedial measures, it was agreed to let the contract
continue for its three year duration but to not extend it. A financial and technical audit was carried out in
1995 to review allegations of financial and technical mismanagement. The audit revealed that financial
management was poor and that procurement procedures were not systematically adhered to. The technical
audit concluded that despite a high consumption of funds little physical progress had been achieved.
During the first three years of project implementation, about US$6.0 million had been disbursed out of a
total of US$20.8 million. Over one-third of this amount was for project management (about US$2.3
million in direct expenditures). The Government reimbursed the Bank for ineligible expenditures identified
in the financial audit, prior to the Board submission of the restructured project.

B.       Restructured Project

I. Transport Infrastructure and Logistics. The specific objective of this component was to contribute to
alleviating physical constraints faced by Guinean exporters in transporting, handling and storing of
agricultural output prior to shipment. Two sets of activities were to be undertaken: (i) the development of
barge feedering system along the Mellacorée River, and (ii) the provision of physical facilities and
equipment for transportation and handling of projects intended for export. The barge feedering system was
considered essential to the success of the project because of the congestion of the port in Conakry, which
makes it difficult to handle agricultural exports in a timely manner, and the high handling and
transportation costs. A new port would reduce transportation costs and handling delays and thus make
Guinea more attractive as an exporter of agricultural products. This component was only partially


                                                     - 6 -

implemented and with great delays. In addition, it failed to complete the key investments in the barge
feedering system and is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

I.a.     The development of a barge feedering system along the Mellacorée River was implemented, at
least in hindsight, in an uncoordinated manner. It was assumed that the investments would be economically
viable based on information at the time of the restructuring mission, although a number of technical issues
were still unresolved. Rather than it being developed as an integrated system, the PMU, and to some extent
the Bank, implemented it as a series of independent activities. To some extent, this approach was reinforced
by the civil war in neighboring Sierra Leone, which made some activities in the area difficult to execute for
about seven months (September 2000 ­ March 2001). These activities were therefore postponed towards
the end of the project, when insufficient time remained for their implementation. As a result, only part of
the infrastructure program was implemented (the wharf, warehouse and access roads at Benty). However,
the rehabilitation of the wharf and the construction of a tidal loading platform at Fandjé and the buoying of
the Mellacorée River from the open sea to Fandjé were not undertaken. The hydrographic survey of the
river had to be done twice at a cost of over US$700,000, but is now completed in accordance with
international norms. The survey results have also been duly submitted to the relevant international
organism. The design of the loading platform in Fandjé was not appropriate given the topography (no
design costs available). This has severely limited the usefulness of the investments made at the Benty
location and the attractiveness of the entire area (the so-called banana triangle). As a result, one private
exporter who was active in the area has relocated in order to reduce his transportation costs and a second
private investor has withdrawn altogether from the country.

As part of the barge feedering and feeder road investments, the project had constructed as planned a
conditioning center at Fandjé. This center was until recently used by a private company and the
Government had officially transferred the property to the investor. With the uncertainty related to the
development of the Benty-Fandjé sites, the company halted exploitation of the building just prior to credit
closing. The equipment installed in the building was moved at the project's expense to a different building
in Daboyah, which has easier access to the port in Conakry.

The development of the entire area requires that a solution is found to the high costs associated with using
the port in Conakry. The barge feedering sytem was though to be a good alternative. This was confirmed
by the competitivity study which showed that the high transportation costs are the sole reason why Guinea
has problems to compete profitably on the international markets. Technical options would have to be
linked, however, to the production that is likely to be handled from the hinterland. The remaining
investments for the barge feedering system are now included under the planned Second Phase Rural
Infrastructure Project (PNIR 2), which is expected to be presented to the Board sometime in 2004. The
ICR mission recommends that a technical and economic analysis be done to identify the most adapted
solution.

I.b.     The Conakry Airport Fruit Terminal. The terminal was constructed on the basis of a turnkey
contract and all equipment was installed and tested just prior to the credit closing date. At the time of
credit closing, the access road to the fruit terminal from outside the airport, as well as the road from
terminal to the stationing area of the planes had not yet been built. The initial design for the roads had to be
changed because of a decision by the airport management agency (SOGEAC) to build a drainage canal
between the terminal and the landing strip, and because of security concerns following the September 11
attacks in the United States. Delays in the construction of the canal made it impossible for the roads to be
financed from the credit. The Government and the Bank have come to an agreement that the Third Urban
Development Project would finance the construction of the access roads in late 2003, at which time the
terminal will be fully operational. Government has agreed that management of the terminal will be on a


                                                     - 7 -

contractual basis with a private sector entity (company, association, etc.).

I.c.     Processing and Storing Warehouses in Moyenne Guinée. The project had envisaged the
construction of a 500 m2 warehouse at Imbi-Madina in the Fouta Djallon region. The warehouse would
serve for storage of potatoes and be managed by the local producer organization. According to the PMU,
the warehouse was not constructed because of conflicts within the farmers' organization and its eventual
split in two. The PMU felt that under the circumstances the organization would not be able to manage the
warehouse. When the ICR mission visited the proposed site, the farmers' organization had already built
from its own and other resources a wall surrounding the parcel and a garage in preparation of the
construction of the warehouse. The producer organization felt it had the capacity to efficiently utilize and
manage the warehouse; the PMU had no information to refute this claim.

The project built a warehouse for potatoes processing and storage in Soumbalako in 1998, which was
managed by UGAS (Union of Soumbalako Agricultural Producer Organizations). The construction was
judged of poor quality and this has increased maintenance costs. Maintenance is funded by UGAS and
these costs are relatively high at FNG 10 per kilo handled (US$0.005 per kilo). The building and land were
to be formally transferred to UGAS prior to credit closing. This was not done as the document ceding the
building from the Government had the local government (district council) as beneficiary and not UGAS.
UGAS has continued to use and manage the building although no formal relationship was established with
the district council.

The project also rehabilitated the multi-product processing station in Mandiana. Rehabilitation was
considerably delayed because the project could not obtain the title to the land until late 1999. The station is
presently underutilized because there is insufficient production in the area. The situation is expected to
improve in the future as production from new plantings becomes available. It was not clear at credit closing
who would manage the station after credit closing and under what arrangement.

I.d.     Export Infrastructures in Haute Guinée. The planned cold storage and handling facilities at the
Kankan-Diankaná airport were not constructed. The site originally identified for the facilities was in fact
promised by the Government to a group of foreign investors and the PMU did not identify another site. The
PMU stated to the ICR mission that no other suitable site was available. It appears that the PMU had
hoped against high odds, to get a small parcel at the original site.

I.e.     Roads. The restructured project planned to rehabilitate a total of 250 km of tracks and roads. By
credit closing, the project had completed work on 190 km. With the exception of 14 km, the majority of all
track and road rehabilitation was focused on the accessibility of Fandjé and Benty as a means of evacuation
of agricultural export products. With the non-completion of the works on the barge feedering system, these
investments will not carry the expected traffic. Maintenance of the roads are expected to be covered under
the proposed PNIR 2.

II. Export Financing Support. The component is rated highly unsatisfactorily. The objective of this
component was to improve access to credit by strengthening the Agricultural Marketing Loan Guarantee
Fund, previously established by USAID, to provide guarantees to Guinean commercial banks for extending
credit to agricultural producers and exporters for: (a) pre-shipment financing to fund pre-export related
activities (including purchases of fertilizers, seeds, and packaging materials); and (b) post-shipment
financing. The project was to provide additional funds to cover an expected increased demand.

USAID did not continue to support the AMLGF as was expected at the time of project restructuring. The
PMU then decided to provide direct financing to agricultural exporters rather than trying to establish


                                                     - 8 -

relationships with commercial banks similar to what had been done under the AMLGF. The PMU created a
special fund to prefinance agricultural exports (Fonds de prefinancement des exportations agricoles). In
principle, this fund would be reimbursed through repayments and credit was to be provided on commercial
terms, with the interest covering risk and overhead costs. Eligibility criteria had been established and
guarantees defined. In reality, export credit was provided without verification of the borrower's ability to
repay and with zero interest. The PMU did not insist on guarantees either even though this was one of the
criteria. Through June 30, 2002, this fund extended a total of GNF 388 million in credit to 21 different
exporters, of which GNF 284 million or 73 percent was repaid. In five cases, multiple credits were
provided to exporters who had not yet fully repaid earlier credits and who at credit closing still had not
completed repayment of the export credit. These creditors account for half of all outstanding credits. Two
beneficiaries in 1997 were large private companies (of which one international) that would normally have
had access to the formal banking sector. Neither of these beneficiaries has fully repaid the credit.

In February 2000, at the time of the second mid-term review of the project, the Bank recommended that a
study be undertaken to review the different options to provide working capital and export facilities to
agricultural exporters. At the same time, the Bank gave its non-objection for the continuation of the export
credit and called it a very positive experience. It is not clear from the aide-mémoire, whether the mission
had access to the same information as the ICR mission, because at that time, problems with repayments
had become quite apparent. It is also not clear from the different aide-mémoires if the system was ever
properly evaluated.

There is no action plan to recuperate the outstanding credits despite the last supervision mission's
insistence that such an action plan be developed and that the funds in the off-shore account would be
transferred to the project account in Guinea. Documents prepared by the PMU clearly state an
unwillingness to go after debtors.

III. Support for Private Sector Development. This component focused on two main activities: (i) help
enhance the overall regulatory and institutional framework for private sector involvement in agricultural
production and exports; and (ii) provide direct support to individual or groups of exporters. The ICR
mission rated the achievement of the specific objectives of this component satisfactory, even though the
overall environment for private sector development has not improved as a result, given the many other
constraints.

III.a.   Regulatory and Institutional Framework. The restructuring team had identified a number of
steps to be taken to enhance the regulatory and institutional framework and detailed these in an
aide-mémoire. This sub-component is rated marginally satisfactory.

The PMU prepared several application decrees and other legal texts to resolve key issues identified at the
time of project restructuirng. An important achievement was the removal of import duties on agricultural
equipment and inputs (fertilizer and pesticides). A second major achievement of the project was the
establishment of one-stop export facilitator centers (Centre de facilitation des exportations, CAFEX) in
the Ministry of Commerce, at the port of Conakry, Kankan (for exports towards Côte d'Ivoire and Mali)
and in Labé (for exports towards Senegal). In addition, these centers were authorized to issue the certificate
of origin: Product of Guinea. Originally created as a pilot experiment under the project, a decree has been
adopted officially establishing the CAFEX's as permanent, semi-autonomous institutions.

Their financial sustainability is likely but not yet ensured because user fees for agricultural exports will not
be sufficient. Contacts have been made with the Chamber of Commerce for Mines to issue the certificate of
origin for bauxite and other minerals on their behalf and use revenues from this source to subsidize their


                                                      - 9 -

other activities. This arrangement had, however, not yet been finalized at the time of credit closing. Other
accomplishments of the project were the development of a standard document to facilitate the establishment
of a company in Guinea and a standardized land lease contract to be used by private investors to provide
them with land security. The project also financed the participation of representatives of the Government of
Guinea and the private sector in foreign expositions. Participation in these expositions did have the desired
effect of increasing knowledge of Guinean products and was especially helpful for exporters of honey (see
below), leather products (including tanned hides) and pineapples. Finally, the project undertook a major
effort to sell Guinea to foreign investors, which ultimately generated some investments (see Table 5, Annex
1). The amount invested is not known and most of these investors have left Guinea again.

III.b.   Direct Support to Investors. Support to private individuals or groups of agricultural exporters
included matching grants for: (i) study tours to learn from other countries; (ii) technical feasibility and
market development studies for promising non-traditional exports; and (iii) testing new production and new
markets through pilot activities. This sub-component was rated satisfactory overall.

A study was carried out in 1998 to identify potential export products. Eleven products were reviewed:
mangoes, pineapples, papayas, yams, plantains, melons, green beans, cherry tomatoes, sweet potatoes, and
groundnuts. Of these, two were already traditional export products (pineapples and mangoes). Other
products were either unknown or produced only for local consumption. The study in itself was useful for
the identification of key axes of intervention. The project was successful in providing support to pineapple
production and worked here with large groups of producers (UGPAM and CMRA). Project support was
limited to providing funding for irrigation material for the nurseries. Both groups of producers already had
experience in producing and commercializing pineapples and are in an expansion phase.

The project subsequently intervened in several areas, which had not all been covered under the study:
cashews, avocadoes, papayas, fisheries, honey, and leather and hides. Its support activities were generally
not successful. The project financed test shipments of avocadoes, which were well received. The scale of
production at the time of credit closing was too small to focus on anything but small niches. There were
major weaknesses in project strategy and implementation. In the case of cashews, avocadoes and papayas,
the main weakness was the weak implementation of research and extension support services in the
development of technical protocols (seed selection, plant care, treatment of pests, post-harvest treatment
and storage, etc.). In the case of cashews, the ICR mission received conflicting views on the
appropriateness of the variety selected by the project (jumbo cashews). In addition, there was little
exchange of experiences between the different groups of beneficiaries.

The major flaw in the project's strategy was that because of difficulties in mobilizing existing support
institutions (research, extension, input suppliers) or establishing new ones, the project sought to carry out
these activities itself.   For example, instead of providing support for the establishment of private
seed/seedling growers, it purchased and distributed these inputs on an opportunistic bases. It focused on
doing instead of on helping to establish permanent capacities to provide these services required, thus
eliminating the possibility of establishing sustainable systems for services delivery.

For honey, which was identified separately as a high potential area, given the large number of producers
and the relatively strong organization, the project financed the participation of representatives of honey
producers in regional expositions (Guinea, Morocco, Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal) and provided funding for
test shipments to Canada, Morocco and France. The project also helped to organize honey producers in the
Fouta-Djallon area.

For the fisheries subsector, the project successfully supported several initiatives in collaboration with the


                                                     - 10 -

National Fisheries Directorate. It made a major effort to help Guinean fish exporters meet the European
Union safety standards. The project provided support to strengthen the inspection service of the Ministry of
Fisheries; with the collaboration of FAO elaborated standard criteria for quality control, packaging, and the
training of firms involved in export of fresh fish; provided several exporters with specialized equipment that
corresponded with European Union guidelines; and created an association regrouping several exporters
which has now the legal status of an NGO (Guinean Association of Exporters of Fishery Products,
AGEXPHA). AGEXPHA had six members at the time of credit closing.

In 2001, the project commissioned a competitiveness study on various agricultural sub-sectors, trade
facilitation and export logistics. This study proved useful for understanding the constraints faced by the
Guinean export operators. The study related to the following sub-sectors such as coffee, mango, pineapple,
cashew nuts, organic production, melon, banana, potato, sweet potato, yam and shea (tree). The study gave
a very useful understanding on opportunities and constraints faced at the different levels. A workshop was
organized to present the findings of the study. This was, however, done close to the credit closing date and
the findings and recommendations were not translated into concrete steps.

IV. Project Management. At the time of restructuring the old PMU was disbanded, although some
technical staff was carried over into the new PMU. The MOP did not detail the project's implementation
arrangements, neither did it detail how staff of the new PMU was selected. It merely stated that a PMU was
in place since August 1996 and that it was performing satisfactorily.

During project implementation, the PMU was unable to sufficiently focus its activities on project priorities
identified in the MOP or to develop a clear and well thought through implementation strategy. The PMU
was overstaffed for the types of activities planned and it is difficult to determine whether it was a deliberate
decision by management to do as much as possible in-house (faire) rather than contracting out or
supporting the establishment of permanent capacities for service delivery (faire-faire), or just plain bad
management. The PMU employed several engineers who had a very light work-load. Similarly, the project
had several staff working on professional organizations even though sufficient expertise could have been
obtained from Government agencies or private consultants on an as needed basis. The management set-up
was also very centralized and bureaucratic with private investors complaining that they often could not get
support in the absence of the director. The PMU also had a tendency to paint a very optimistic picture of
project achievements and frequently brushed problems under the carpet.

The cost of the PMU is estimated at US$1.0 million for operating costs alone, plus an estimated US$1.0
million for vehicles and equipment, and consultant services and training. This estimate corresponds to
about 20 percent of disbursements under the restructured project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The net present value of the project as originally designed and as defined in the SAR cannot be replicated
for want of information, furthermore the situation has completely changed and the project was redesigned
in 1995-96. The net present value of the restructured project was based on the expected impact of the
investments of the barge feedering system only.

No NPV analysis of the barge feedering system can, however, be carried out as the majority of the
investments have not yet been completed (wharf infrastructure and equipment and the buoying of the
navigable trajectory between Fandjé and Benty. In addition, by the time these investments will have been
completed (likely 2005 at the earliest), it may be necessary to carry out major maintenance of the feeder
roads and connecting roads that were rehabilitated or constructed under the project. The two foreign
investors active in the region have also both withdrawn, making it unlikely that the system can now be



                                                     - 11 -

made financially or economically viable given the low existing production in the hinterland and the lags
involved in obtaining a production response. The ICR team strongly recommends that an in-depth analysis
is carried out prior to making any new investments and that investments to date are treated as sunk costs to
avoid penalizing the viability of any future investments because of serious delays under this project.

As no analyis was carried out for the airport terminal at an earlier date and information is limited, only a
cursory analysis can be carried out. Based on investments made to date and those still required prior to the
utilization of the terminal (about US$1.2 million total) and an expected start-up date of mid-2004 (a two
year delay in the benefits stream), the terminal will have to yield a surplus equal to US$78,000 annually
(after operation and maintenance, and excluding depreciation charges) in order to break even (i.e. net
present value equal to zero). This is a tall order given the present limited volume being airfreighted out and
the limited production of potential export products that are of adequate quality and have a sufficient margin
to allow for airfreight. Under the best of all circumstances this would require a minimum export value of
US$1.5 million equivalent, depending on the fee structure of the terminal. This exceeds the value of all high
value added agricultural exports in 2001, a large part of which is exportable by sea. It is therefore unlikely
that the investments in the terminal will have a positive rate of return.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial information provided by the PMU to the ICR team was of little use because it was
fragmentary and applied mostly to hypothetical situations (production and cost forecasts) and not to the
actual experience by farmer organizations and private firms. The PMU did not systematically collect such
data to evaluate training needs of groups supported or the viability of the investment. The ICR mission can
therefore not estimate the financial rate of return of the project. It should be noted here that the original and
restructured project did not present a financial rate of return analysis.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is judged negligible. The only major achievement of the
(restructured) project was to create several one-stop export facilitation offices, CAFEX, that are
semi-autonomous public institutions, funded partially from user fees and now seeking financial
sustainability through cooperation with the chamber of mines. Their sustainability is, however, not assured.
Also, the project was able to remove certain institutional obstacles to exports and investments (e.g.,
exemption from import duties of agricultural inputs and equipment), and provide some tools to investors
(e.g development of standardized documentation, certificatation of origin, etc.). The strengthening of
professional organizations involved in fisheries exports, leather and hide, and honey are also permanent
achievements. The project was, however, unable to put in place a functioning credit system or build
broader professional organizations - outside of the small groups of exporters mentioned above - capable of
influencing government policies and defending their members' interests, and provide their smembers with
services that government has assumed but is mostly unable to deliver. It also did not try to liaise with large
foreign investors that would make it possible to identify constraints and resolve these.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor impacting project implementation was the civil war in neighboring Sierra Leone. The
decreased security situation in the border areas (especially close to Benty and Fandjé) made project
activities in these areas difficult from September 2000 to March 2001.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government failed to create an environment conducive to private sector investments as outlined in the
policy letter, despite the formal resolution of a large number of the constraints identified in the SAR.



                                                      - 12 -

During the 1993-1996 period, the Government failed to adequately support project implementation,
primarily because it was unhappy with the implementation arrangements.                  Following the project's
restructuring, the Government failed to adopt some of the proposed changes in a timely manner and those
that were adopted, were not always satisfactorily communicated to frontline Government staff. This
caused unnecessary implementation delays for the project and imposed additional burdens on investors.
The Government was insufficiently involved in project implementation by the Bank and the PMU, which
has led to communication problems. Where Government was adequately sensitized, decisions were much
faster forthcoming. This underscores that in the country context, a project cannot be managed outside of
permanent structures and be expected to resolve structural issues that are the responsibility of Government,
especially where Government is insufficiently involved in the decision making process.

Project implementation was several times slowed down because of delays by Government in releasing its
counterpart contribution.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PMU failed to build public-private partnerships and did not adequately keep the Bank and Government
involved. This could have avoided the delays on the airport terminal in Conakry or the problems in
obtaining land in Kankan. In addition, it did not always seek to link up with existing institutions to develop
synergies. In some areas such as livestock and fisheries they did so satisfactorily, but in areas such as
credit or crop diversification they did not do so. It also did not see itself as a service provider funded by the
Government but as a private agency. No arrangements were therefore made prior to credit closing to
integrate its activities with existing institutions, which has made the project's sustainability rating unlikely.
As mentioned before, the PMU completely failed to develop a strategic approach to project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$24.6 million, with IDA financing US$20.8 million
(85 percent), the French Cooperation financing US$0.6 million, project beneficiaries financing US$0.7
million and the Government financing US$2.5 million (including US$1.9 million for taxes). Actual project
costs are estimated at US$20.0 million, with IDA contributing US$16.6 million (88 percent), the French
Cooperation contributing US$0.6 million and the Government contributing the remainder (US$2.8 million),
mostly for taxes and duties. It is unknown how much was contributed by beneficiaries, but it is likely to
have been much less than estimated.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability rating is unlikely. The relatively minor investments needed at the airport
terminal will be completed with financing from the IDA financed Third Urban Development project and
management contracted to a private entity. Its financial viability is, however, unlikely given high operating
costs and, at least in the first few years, limited exports. The processing and storage warehouse
infrastructure is unlikely to be sustainable even with the transfer from the central government to either local
governments or beneficiaries.       High operating and maintenance costs will make it unlikely that the
infrastructures can be properly maintained over time. Likewise, the roads infrastructure supported under
the project will be included in the maintenance plan of the PNIR 2, but this is still several years in the
future, which means that in the intervening period the roads will likely revert to their pre-project state due
to lack of maintenance.

The CAFEX has been able to implement a system of partial cost recovery and will be abe to become fully
self-sufficient once a link with the Chamber for Mining is formalized. The CAFEX would then issue the


                                                      - 13 -

certificate of origin for all mining products also. This arrangement was, however, not yet finalized 6
months after credit closing.

The barge feedering system is included in the work program of the PNIR 2. Further investments in the
barge feedering system should, however, not be carried out until a feasibility study has been carried out.
Sustainability of such an investment will be highly dependent on the ability to establish links with existing
producer organizations and exporters to ensure that systems are put in place to direct sufficient production
to the port to make its utilization by shippers financially feasible.       This is, however, fraught with
uncertainty.

The project's policy of providing zero percent credit to exporters was clearly not sustainable, and was not
replaced with a more permanent system as suggested in the credit study. This is still a major shortcoming.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No formal transition arrangements were made to transfer the project's support activities to formal
institutions, except for the airport terminal and one transformation center.        After credit closing that
Government took the steps to appoint the national coordinator for the CAFEX system, the technical
director and the members of the CAFEX steering committee. Government has equally accepted the
recommendations of a study financed by the project to entrust management of the airport terminal to a
private operator. Arrangements to this effect have been made and the terminal will be opened as soon as
the access toads are completed (late 2003).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance at the lending stage is judged highly unsatisfactorily. The objective of the project was
vastly over-ambitious and out of line with the country's commitment to reforms and implementation
capacity. This was clearly demonstrated by the need to drastically restructure the project quickly after
effectiveness, with as mentioned before, for the following five reasons presented: (i) the relative complexity
of project design; (ii) the conflictive set-up for project management; (iii) the lack of cooperation between
line Ministries; (iv) the fact that several of the targeted entities went into bankruptcy soon after credit
effectiveness and (v) a lack of maturity of the professional organizations of agricultural export producers
and exporters.     The project design team did not adequately evaluate the institutional capacity of
implementing partners or the realism of the proposed activities in the Guinean context. The proposed
activities to increase exports required financially strong partners and an industrial approach to production.
The selected nuclei lacked the financial capacity and had no access to credit.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank's performance during supervision is judged unsatisfactory.           From June 1993 through 1995,
supervision was unsatisfactory. Supervision missions were frequent, but with inadequate composition (no
technical, financial or procurement specialists). This is puzzling given the complexity of the project. The
Bank quickly identified the problems associated with the project and halted implementation after two years
(in 1995) to open a dialogue with government on the project's need for substantial restructuring. The
subsequent technical and financial audit uncovered serious weaknesses in procurement and financial
management.

The restructuring of the project was well managed and conditionalities were appropriate. The Bank opted
to restructure the project rather than close it down because it felt that a substantial impact could still be
obtained if the project could be simplified.



                                                     - 14 -

Following restructuring, the quality of supervision and the support that the Bank team provided to the
project was unsatisfactory. In the last six years of the project, the Bank fielded ten supervision missions,
of which only four consisted of more than just the TTL. Many supervision missions lacked the market
specific expertise to judge whether the proposed crop diversification strategy followed under the project
was viable, ignored the problems associated with the export credit issue and only included an engineer in
four mission, despite the heavy emphasis in this project on infrastructure.

The full Bank supervision missions were very detailed in its reviews of project performance, but did not
seem to make the link between expected project outputs and actual project implementation. This led to a
serious disconnect between the supervision ratings and the conclusions of the ICR mission, which are based
on the objectives contained in the MOP and the attached project design summary. The inclusion of the
design summary in the PSRs might have made it easier for TTLs and management to catch this disconnect
earlier. The disconnect was discussed during a meeting with staff from AFTQK at the time of the last
credit extension in December 2001. This meeting concluded that: "although the (review) team found that
the Aide Memoire (of the September 2001 supervision mission) was very thorough and frank about the
project difficulties, it also believes that the project has been over-rated in the PSRs, and that if an ICR
was carried out at this stage, the project would most likely be rated unsatisfactory, resulting in a
disconnect. This conclusion was, however, not reflected in the PSR dated the same day subsequent PSR.
At this time a QAG of the project was proposed but never carried out because the TTL at the time felt that
it was too close to credit closing to have any impact.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The World Bank and consultants prepared the project for the Government. As such the role played by the
Government at this stage was minimal and so apparently its commitment to project objectives, design and
implementation. Only at the redesign stage was a greater involvement of Government evident. The lack of
involvement of Government is demonstrated by the difficulty during the initial stages of the project to
resolve institutional bottlenecks. Government's role is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was mixed and rated unsatisfactory. Some Government agencies
such as extension and research were unable to provide the required support, while other such as in the case
of livestock and fisheries provided substantial and satisfactory support. Part of Government's performance
was negatively influenced because the PMU tried to do too much itself and supervision missions treated the
project too much as a standalone project and therefore did not sufficiently engage Government in dialogue.
This left Government agencies out of the loop. In instances where there was dialogue between the Bank
and the Government, such as the management of the airport terminal or the transfer of warehouses to the
private sector, there was a positive and collaborative reaction. Government fell short in two key areas for
project implementation: (i) the timely provision of counterpart funds, which caused implementation delays
several times during project implementation; and (ii) Government's apparent inability to communicate to its
frontline staff changes in rules related to agricultural investments and exports, which caused delays to
investors and exporters alike.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PMU is rated unsatisfactory. The PMU tried to do too much itself and assumed



                                                     - 15 -

the role of other agencies (facilitation) or even the private sector (provision of credit, seed supply, etc) in
many instances. Higher priority was also placed on training and activities involving foreign trips than on
priority investment activities, such as the development of the Mellacorrée river or an export terminal in
Kankan. The activities were not always well selected. The PMU organized a trip to the largest port in the
world to review equipment to be used on the Mellacorée River development. Not only was there a
substantial mismatch in scale and type of activities, but also, no qualified engineer participated. Similarly,
for the export diversification support, activities did not follow a logical sequence nor were they technically
sound. The selection procedures for seeds were based on hearsay in the case of cashews with no technical
foundation (preferred variety, seed selection, plant care, pest treatment, marketing and market quality
demands, etc.) or based on a very small market segment in the case of avocadoes and an inadequate market
study.

The PMU inadequately followed up with potential foreign investors encountered at foreign expositions to
find out why there was limited interest in investing in the country given its high potential. It also did not
develop initiatives to contact large foreign investors directly to promote Guinea as a potential investment
site.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance (Government and PMU combined) is rated unsatisfactory, given the high
importance of implementation and the poor project outcome and the PMU's role in this.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from the project are:

·        The project was an inappropriate vehicle to tackle the problems identified in the SAR. The major
cross-sectoral reforms and improvements in the private sector investment climate needed could not be
delivered by a project of this size and it was therefore doomed to fail;
·        Physical constraints to evacuate produce to markets and bring inputs to farms were of such
enormous proportions that they could not be adequately addressed by a single sectoral project, the
redesigned project unsuccessfully tried to address this by refocusing on only certain key bottlenecks;
·        The need to establish an appropriate and regularly updates to a clear project implementation plan
from the very beginning would have helped the PMU to focus its activities and made supervision of the
project easier.
·        The importance of private and public sector collaboration to set standards for quality as was
successfully done in the case of fresh fish exports, and exports of hides and leather, or to provide services
as was done in the case of the CAFEX.
·        The need for Government to clearly formulate and implement a strategy that recognizes the
importance of the private sector and supports the creation of a favorable investment climate. No such
strategy had been formulated throughout the life of this project and as a result, few foreign investors are
present despite the relative advantage of Guinea in terms of availability of arable land and water, and
proximity to major markets. The policy letter therefore became a tool that was only used by the Bank for
its internal processing purposes.
·        A project seeking to effect structural and institutional reforms cannot be implemented by an
independent project unit with only weak ties with Government. Government has to be actively involved and
lead the process. Also, having a PMU outside of a regular Government structure leads inevitably to
problems as the PMU has little to no incentive to ensure that an orderly transfer of activities is planned in a
timely fashion.




                                                      - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower, by electronic mail from the former project director, provided only summary comments on
the ICR. The Borrower also submitted a report which is presented in Annex 8. The Borrower's report,
written by the former project director, is marginally critical of the ICR. While it does not disagree with the
conclusion that the project failed to achieve its objectives, it feels that the ICR does not adequately
recognize the achievements made. The Borrower's full report is attached to the ICR (Annex 8).

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1 : Basic Log Frame Indicators (2002)
     Description             Key indicators Monitoring and                                                       Outcome
                                                           Evaluation
Development objective        1. improved agricultural 1.1 COLEACP annual        1.1 Favorable macro-economic framework was not maintained duriing the
                            export competitiveness on report; ICR report; Real  project. One important conclusion of the ICR mission was that laws and
To promote agricultural     the world markets for     exchange rate index       regulations related to agricultural inpust inportation and export of production
exports through the         Guiena agricultural
                            products; reverse                                   are not consistently applied.
removal of obstacles to     declining trend by 2001                             Improved export facilities will be available mid-2004, but only for air
supply response                                                                 exports, sea exports will not benefit
                                                                                Increased incomes through improved quality and increased quantity was
                                                                                not attained because neither the quantity nor the quality made sufficient
                            2. Increased market       2.1 COLEACP annual        strides to impact on incomes.
                            share for Guinea-grown    report; annual FAO trade
                            mango and pineapple on    statistics                2.1Penetration rate on (international) markets for mangoes, pineapples and
                            the worldmarket by 2001                             other products in EU (compared to total ACP)
                                                                                a) In 1998
                                                                                · Volume : 0.35%
                                                                                · Value : 0.42%
                                                                                b) In 2000 (highest export volume to date)
                                                                                · Volume : 0.23%
                                                                                · Value : 0.26%

Outputs:

Increased export            Annual growth of          Customs statistics       Exports of pineapples, mangoes, melons and bioproducts in 2000 : 8,968
capabilities as a result of exported fruits and       Shippers records         tons distributed as follows :
port and transport          vegetables from at leat PMU reports                 a) Mangoes : 2,865 ton, of which 510 tons to the EU (320 tons in 2001)
infrasrtucture              4 to 5,000 t between                                b) Pineapples : 2,892 ton, of which 1000 tons to the EU (2,600 tons in
improvements                1998 and 2003                                       2001)
                                                                                c) Melons : 2,670 of which 1,879 tons to the EU (0 ton in 2001)
                                                                                d) Cashews : 1,641 tons, all to EU (1800 tons in 2001)
                                                                                This number is 4,420 tons or one-third short of target For 001, the shortfall
                                                                                from target had increased to about 8,000 tons, the increase in the shortfall
                                                                                was caused by significant decreases in the export of mangoes and melons
                            Use of adequate           Customs statistics
                            packing material          Shippers records          a) Quantity of packaging used annually: 97 833 cartons per year;, no
                            increased by about 400Packaging production          weight was available
                            tons annually between or turnover data from         b) Introduction of packaging for diversification products (on test basis)
                            1998 and 2003             SOGEPAC
                                                      PMU reports


Export finances facilitated Reduced constraints in                              a) Prefinancing : GF306 million from 1997 to 2000
for local exporters through aquisition of working                               b) Average number of beneficiaries 8 per yr ; In 1999 there were 14
working capital credits     capital for exporters                               c) Loan repayment rate
                            increase in loan                                    · In 1997 : 60%
                            applications from                                   · In 1998 : 98%
                            exporters accepted to                               · In 1999 : 100%
                            10 per year                                         · In 2000 : 75%
                                                                                Note this was not through the formal banking sector as envisaged in the
                                                                                MOP but a line of credit administered by the project

Reduced administrative      Increased business
impediments and             registration of small
enhanced business           and medium sized
capability for private      enterprises
sector operations in        Increased foreign direct                            a) Number of foreign investors
agriculture exports         investment in export                                · Present and operational : 4 (SIPEF, CMRA, FARM GUINEE,



                                                                       - 18 -

                            agriculture from                            SOBRAGUI)
                            US$4.0 million to                           b) Amount invested (at least US$6.1 million over the life of the project):
                            US$8.0 million per year                     · SIPEF : US$1,100,000
                            in the next three years                     · AIC : more than US$3 million
                            (1997-2000), or US$24                       · CMRA : more than US$20,000
                            million                                     · SOBRAGUI : more than US$2 million
                                                                        AGRICO unknown (abandoned)
                                                                        ITER AGRA unknown (abandoned)




                                                                        Infrastructure facilities
                                                                        a) estimated volume of output transiting by year and by facility ;
                                                                        · Fandjé : 2000 tons
                                                                        · Soumbalako :
                                                                        · Terminal :
                                                                        b) % completion of facilities (including costs) :
                                                                        1) 1000m2 hangar at Fandjé : 100%
                                                                        2) 375 m2 warehouse at Soumbalako : 100%
                                                                        3) Parking area at Fandjié-1500 m2 : 100%
                                                                        4) RN road Fandjié-4.5 km : 100%
                                                                        5) Lot1 (Pamalap-Benty, 42 km : 100%
                                                                        6) Famoréah-Séguéya, 110km : 100%
                                                                        7) Signage studies: 90% (draft final report available)
                                                                        8) Fandjé dock rehabilitated : 100%
                                                                        9) Grading station at Mandjana : 95%
                                                                        10)       Renovation of SNSSA headquarters: 90%
                                                                        11)       TPPx :
                                                                        · civil engineering works 90% (completion of works)
                                                                        · financial : 75 %
                                                                        · access road : contracting procedure
Project                     Inputs (budget for                          Components to outputs:
Components/Sub-comp each components)
onents
                                                                        Expected outputs
1. Transport                US$3.5 million         For all: project     Barge feedering system attracts small reefer ships to stop in the
infrastructure and logistics                       progress reports and Mellacoree River
(i.e. wharf construction,                          disbursement reports Operational management of the barge system proves capable of meeting
feeder road rehabiliation                                               tight operational constraints
rehabilitation, portloading                                             Public right of use of the Fandje site is secured
improvements,                                                           Production form outgrowers will increase as a result of improved market
navigational aids for the                                               conditions
ports)                                                                  Actual outputs:
                                                                        As work on the barge feedering system was only partially completed
                                                                        (neither the demarcation of the channel nor work on te wharf infrsatructure
                                                                        has started), none of the expected outcomes were achieved; they may be
                                                                        achieved under the PNIR 2. In the absence of the barge feedering system,
                                                                        export of production in the so-called golden triangle is not viable given high
                                                                        transport costs via the port of Conakry.

                            US2.0 million                               Expected outputs:
2. Support for export                                                   Commercial banks will increase lending to agricultural exporters
financing facility (i.e.                                                Incentives to reduce administrative impediments is sufficiently strong
export warehouse quality                                                Actual outputs:
control improvements,                                                   No sustainable system was established and instead the project set-up a
strengthened specialized                                                system of pre-financing managed by the PMU. Repayment rates were
institutions to provide                                                 disappointing and out of the GNF 388 million credit provided, only GNF 284
pre-shipment working                                                    million (73 percent) was repaid.
capital and guarantees,                                                 Administrative impediments were substantially reduced during the life of



                                                                  - 19 -

training and short-term                                                         the project with the adoption of decrees and the establishment of the
technical assistance)                                                           CAFEX system (see Table 2 below for details)

                              US$1.0 million                                    Expected outputs:
3. Support for private                                                          None were formulated
sector development (i.e.                                                        Actual outputs:
institutional strengthening,                                                    Support was provided for a variety of crops and participation in regional ad
technical assistance,                                                           international tradeshows with positive results for especially livestock
study tours, pilot-plots of                                                     products (hides) and honey.
export crops, test                                                              Support for test shipments of avacodoes and pineapples, and development
shipments of selected                                                           of cashews, coffee, etc.
products to evaluate                                                            Support to fisheries exports (quality control and meeting EU standards) led
demand in foreign                                                               to increase in exports from 700 tons in 1997 to 2,000 tons in 2001
markets)




Table 2 : Summary of constraints identified
                           Constraint                                                                 Current situation
Foreign exchange regulations

           · Exporters must transfer FX proceeds, without      Transfer is compulsory, but not observed by operators
exception
           · Opening FX accounts is prohibited                 FX accounts are allowed, but foreign currencies must sometimes be surrendered to
                                                               the bank
           · Limits on the amount of FX that private trade     for exporters and banks
           missions can obtain for travel abroad
           Customs regulations

           · Customs duties levied on agricultural products     Exemption
           · Regulations governing temporary import of inputsImports of farming, fishery and livestock inputs are exempt from import duties and
           for re-export (e.g. packaging) are poorly applied   levies (decree D/97/205 /PRG/SGG of 9/18/97), however, decree not consistently
                                                               applied
           Financial regulations

           · Lack of real property rights needed as collateral Property title can sometimes be obtained, with much red tape, but is not acceptable
           for export activity                                 to banks as collateral for export financing
           Government services

           · The quality control system is ineffective         1.Control system is in place and CAFEX issues Guinean certificates of origin for all
                                                               export products
                                                               2. INM has adopted quality standards for 6 products
                                                               3. All marine exports meet EU standards
           · No interface between government and exporters PCPEA acts as interface between Government and exporters
           · Complexity of export formalities                  There is a single window for handling all formalities (CAFEX)
           · No reliable economic data on the export sector    Reliable export data are available from June 1998
           Chamber of Commerce

           · Operational capacity is weak                      Operational capacity improved with support from a variety of donors
           · Not sufficiently independent of Government        President and national and regional boards are elected by operators
           · Inadequate financial resources (no parafiscal     GF 800 million paid each year to CCIAG as tax surcharges
           revenues such as tax surcharges)
           · Heavy debts                                       Debts have been greatly reduced
           Professional organizations

           · Status varies and is inadequate                   Five professions now have their own charter, consistent with existing regulations
           ·  interface with Government                        Still valid
           · Operating capacity is weak                         Still in financially precarious state



Cooperatives



                                                                     - 20 -

· There are few cooperatives
                   · Operational capacity is weak                             Still valid
                   · Legal framework is inappropriate                         Still valid
Financial constraints

· No investment fund
                   · No financial guarantee                                   Still valid
· No capacity for cost-benefit analysis and investment budgeting               Still valid
· Limited access to financial services in rural areas                         Situation persists
Production

· Lack of technical know-how and familiarity with farming technologies        changed in several sub-sectors (hides, honey and fisheries)
· Production is scattered and of low volume                                   Still valid
                   · Critical mass of export products is lacking              Still valid
Storage and packaging

· Lack of export market knowledge and trading relations                        Partially addressed, but with departure of project unit still an issue
· Inadequate processing and packaging facilities                              Quality packaging available for mango and pineapple
                                                                              Regular processing and quality control
                   · No cold storage at port or airport
                   Domestic and international transport

· Production zones have little or no access to transport                      Constraints partially lifted concerning roads network. Port of Conakry still
                                                                              poses a serious bottleneck. The airport facility is expected to open for full use
                                                                              in about a year
· Maritime transport is infrequent and irregular, because export volumes      Still valid
are not sufficient.
New constraints (1997)

                   · No legal framework in certain areas (e.g.,              Appropriate legal framework thanks to OHADA harmonization
                   co-enterprise)
· No economic interest groups (EIGs) that could help with export markets EIGs are being established. Example: Agri Export
· Bilateral trade agreements are often vague and outdated, and of little use   Still valid
for pursuing new market opportunities
· .Support services have deteriorated                                          Still valid
                   · Little use of inputs (fertilizers and phytosanitary      Some operators are now using fertilizers and phytosanitary inputs, but
                   products)                                                  use is limited due to high cost and access
· Older plantations are not maintained and no new ones are being               Still valid
established (coffee and mangoes)




Table 3 : Total agricultural exports
         Year                Total        Mango          Pineapple        Melon             Coffee           Cashew            Potato            Bio products
         1997               29 390          543             900             0              28 548                0                40                 250
         1998               34 376         1 625            1 298         1 134            28 603             1 430               0                  286
         1999               26 352          818             1 893         3 454            18 782             1 018               0                  387
         2000               29 301         2 865            2 892         2 670            18 682             1 641               0                  551
         2001               25 608          320             2 600           0              20 500             1 800               nc                 388
Source : Study on profitability, competitiveness and investment incentives




Table 4 : Volume of credit and repayment rate
      Year               Number of                 Amount of          Amount repaid            Balance                  Repayment rate



                                                                      - 21 -

                        exporters            prefinancing
      1997                   7                      209 240 326       153 565 474            55 674 852       73.39%
      1998                   8                       65 337 766        53 009 673            12 328 093       81.13%
      1999                   8                       52 523 577        51 300 057             1 223 520       97.67%
      2000                   5                       38 342 071        21 109 207            17 232 864       55.05%
   2001-2002                 3                       22 447 847         4 780 000            17 667 847       21.29%
Total                       31                      387 891 587       283 764 411           104 127 176       73.16%
Source: PMU


Table 5 : List of foreign investors in the agricultural exports sector (cumulative 1997-2002)
            Investors                   Site(Locality)             Products        Current situation :  Total investment to
                                                                                    present, absent or           date
                                                                                        contact
AIC                               Fandjé / Forecariah      Melon, Watermelon      Absent               More than US$3 million
SIPEF                             Fandjé / Forecariah      Mango                 Present               US$1. 1 million
SOBRAGUI                          Conakry                  Pineapple             Present               US$2 million
Bolloré Group                     Daboyah                  Fruits and vegetables Contact
Guinée Farms                     Forecariah                Fruits and vegetables  Present              Unknown
POMONA                                                     Fruits and vegetables Contact

CMRA                              Dubréka                  Pineapple             Present               Unknown
INTER AGRA                                                                        Absent               Unknown

AGRICO                                                                            Absent               Unknown


Number of foreign investors established : 7
Number of investors still operating investments : 4 (57 percent)
Number of investors that have ceased operations : 3

Source: PMU




                                                                  - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


    Expenditure Category        Appraisal Estimate Latest Estimate/Actual Actual as a % of appraisal
Civil works                              4.80                     4.18                      87
Goods and Equipment                      1.60                     1.32                      83
Consulting Services and                 13.90                     9.80                      71
Training
Operating Costs                          2.40                     2.80                     117
PPF Refinancing                          1.90                     1.88                      99

Total                                   24.6                     19.98                      81

As the PMU maintained all accounts in national currency, this table is an estimate based on average
exchange rates and tax rates.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB                  2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             3.40               0.70            0.00            0.70         4.80
                                    (3.00)             (0.70)          (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.70)
2. Goods                             0.60               0.60            0.40            0.00         1.60
                                    (0.60)             (0.60)          (0.40)          (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                          0.00               0.00           13.30            0.60         13.90
Consultant Services and             (0.00)             (0.00)          (12.40)         (0.00)       (12.40)
Training
4. Operating Costs                   0.00               0.00            2.40            0.00         2.40
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)          (1.20)          (0.00)       (1.20)
5. PPF Refinancing                   0.00               0.00            1.90            0.00         1.90
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)          (1.90)          (0.00)       (1.90)
   Total                             4.00               1.30           18.00            1.30         24.60
                                    (3.60)             (1.30)          (15.90)         (0.00)       (20.80)
This table was not updated at the time of the project's restructuring.




                                                   - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               2.30               0.88              1.00             0.00              4.18
                                      (2.17)             (0.80)            (0.92)            (0.00)           (3.89)
2. Goods                               0.15               0.72              0.45             0.00              1.32
                                      (0.13)             (0.65)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (1.18)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              9.20             0.60              9.80
Consultant Services and               (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.90)            (0.00)           (7.90)
Training
4. Operating Costs                     0.00               0.00              2.80             0.00              2.80
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.75)            (0.00)           (1.75)
5. PPF Refinancing                     0.00               0.00              1.88             0.00              1.88
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.88)            (0.00)           (1.88)
   Total                               2.45               1.60             15.33             0.60             19.98
                                      (2.30)             (1.45)           (12.85)            (0.00)           (16.60)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The net present value of the project as originally designed and as defined in the SAR cannot be replicated
for want of information, furthermore the situation has completely changed and the project was redesigned
in 1995-96. The net present value of the restructured project was based on the expected impact of the
investments of the barge feedering system only.

No NPV analysis of the barge feedering system can, however, be carried out as the majority of the
investments have not yet been completed (wharf infrastructure and equipment and the buoying of the
navigable trajectory between Fandjé and Benty. In addition, by the time these investments will have been
completed (likely 2005 at the earliest), it may be necessary to carry out major maintenance of the feeder
roads and connecting roads that were rehabilitated or constructed under the project. The two foreign
investors active in the region have also both withdrawn, making it unlikely that the system can now be
made financially or economically viable given the low existing production in the hinterland and the lags
involved in obtaining a production response. The ICR team strongly recommends that an in-depth analysis
is carried out prior to making any new investments and that investments to date are treated as sunk costs to
avoid penalizing the viability of any future investments because of serious delays under this project.

As no analyis was carried out for the airport terminal at an earlier date and information is limited, only a
cursory analysis can be carried out. Based on investments made to date and those still required prior to the
utilization of the terminal (about US$1.2 million total) and an expected start-up date of mid-2004 (a two
year delay in the benefits stream), the terminal will have to yield a surplus equal to US$78,000 annually
(after operation and maintenance, and excluding depreciation charges) in order to break even. This is a tall
order given the present limited volume being airfreighted out and the limited production of potential export
products that are of adequate quality and have a sufficient margin to allow for airfreight. Under the best of
all circumstances this would require a minimum export value of US$1.5-2 million equivalent, depending on
the fee structure of the terminal (levy as percent of the value of the exported items), which is unlikely to be
achieved in the short to medium term.

   Year            Cost Benefit Stream
    2002                  -1200000
    2003                   -30000
    2004                   38000
    2005                   78000
    2006                   78000
    2007                   78000
    2008                   28000
    2009                   78000
    2010                   78000
    2011                   78000
   NPV                       0




                                                     - 25 -

Financial rate of return:

The financial information provided by the PMU to the ICR team was of little use because it was
fragmentary and applied mostly to hypothetical situations (production and cost forecasts) and not to the
actual experience by farmer organizations and private firms. The PMU did not systematically collect such
data to evaluate training needs of groups supported or the viability of the investment. The ICR mission can
therefore not estimate the financial rate of return of the project. It should be noted here that the original
and restructured project did not present a financial rate of return analysis.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/30/1989                4    SR. AGR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FMS (1); NOT SPECIFIED (1);
                                             SUGAR SPEC. (CONS) (1)
              09/17/1989                5    SR. AGR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PSD (CONS)
                                             (1); FMS (1)
              10/16/1989                2    NOT SP
              12/13/1989                2    SR. AGR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (CON) (1)
              05/20/1990                9    AGR. ECONOMSIT (1); FMS
                                             (1); AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (CONS) (1); NOT
                                             SPECIFIED (5); DONOR REP
                                             USAID (1)
              11/10/1990                2    AGR. ECONOMIS (1); FMS (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/14/1991                8    AGR. ECONOMIST (2);
                                             FMS (1); NOT SPECIFIED
                                             (5)


 Supervision
              08/10/1992                1    AGR. ECONOMIST (1)
              11/01/1992                3    SR. AGR. ECONOMIST; M&E
                                             SPEC. (CONS) (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (CONS) (1)
              03/10/1993                1    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1)
              06/17/1993                1    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1)             S               S
              12/07/1993                1    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1)             S               S
              02/01/1995                5    ECONOMIST (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1); INTL
                                             COMMERCE SPEC. (CONS)
                                             (1); PRODUCE SPEC. (CONS)
                                             (1)
              05/02/1995                2    AGR. ECONOMIST (2)
              06/02/1997                9    ECONOMIST (1); FMS (1); SR.
                                             PORT ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CREDIT (1); AGR.
                                             ECONOMIST (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             USAID REPR. (1)




                                              - 27 -

               10/24/1997              1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S
               11/01/1998              1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S
               05/01/1999              1   CIVIL ENGINEER (1)                 S    S
               02/08/2000              1   AG. ECONOMIST (1)                  S    S
               09/26/2000              4   TTL (1); AG. ECONOMIST (1);        S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FMS (1)
               09/14/2001              7   TTL (1); AG ECONOMIST (1);         S    S
                                           CREDIT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PORT INFRAST. ENGINEER
                                           (1); SR PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           (1); FMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
               11/20/2002              9   TTL (1); FMS (1); ADVISOR          U    U
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           (1); AGR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                           TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           M&E (CONS) (1); PRODUCER
                                           ORG. (CONS) (1)



 ICR
                                            COMBINED WITH
                                            MISSION OF 11/20/2002



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           119.5                           231
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 98.1                         202.6
  Supervision                          231.9                         572.7
  ICR                                   10.2                            41
  Total                                459.7                       1,047.3




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

The Bank performance for the restructuring/redesign of the project was rated satisfactory.


6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Guinea: National Agricultural Export Promotion project, Report
No. 9997-01, May 29, 1992.

Memorandum of the President, Guinea: National Agricultural Export Promotion project (Cr.
2407-GUI), Proposed Amendment to the Credit Agreement, Report No. IDA/R97-146, November 17,
1997.

Afican Development Management, Project cadre de promotion des exportations agricoles: Raport
d'audit financier et technique, not dated (likely late 1996).

Projet Cadre de Promotion des Exportations Agricoles (PCPEA), Rapport de programme formation et
appui aux organisations professionneles (provisoire), Octobre 2002.

PCPEA, Charte des services et appuis du PCPEA aux bénéficiaires et partenaires, not dated.

PCPEA, Rapport sur la passation des marchés (provisoire), octobre 2002.

PCPEA, Rapport de programme de diversification agricole (provisoire), octobre 2002.

PCPEA, Rapport de programmes d'exportation et élevage d'exportation (provisoire), octobre 2002.

PCPEA, Rapport de programme aménagement et infrastructures physiques (provisoire), octobre 2002.

PCPEA, Rapport de programme mécanisme de préfinancement des exportations agricoles (provisoire),
octobre 2002.

HORUS Banque et Finance, Projet cadre de promotion des exportations agricoles: diagnostic sur le
financement des filières agricoles d'exportation, octobre 2001.

HORUS Entreprises, Projet cadre de promotion des exportations agricoles: Projet "Terminal produits
périssables" de l'aéroport de Conakry - définition du mode d'exploitation et de cession, octobre 2001.

Annual Progress Reports by PMU

Supervision Reports




                                                     - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report

                                                 Introduction

Le Projet Cadre de Promotion des Exportations Agricoles (PCPEA) a été conçu, préparé et mis en oeuvre
entre 1989 et 2002 par le Gouvernement Guinéen appuyé par la Banque Mondiale. Il a été fusionné avec
le Projet de relance fruitière (PREF) financé par la Coopération Française dès le départ. Le Projet a été
conçu avec pour objectif de supprimer ou réduire les contraintes afin d'accroître l'offre de produits
d'exportation issus de la filière fruits et légumes.

Initialement conçu pour une durée de six ans, le projet a fait l'objet d'un Accord de modification en
décembre 1997 et sa clôture a été finalement reportée au 31 décembre 2002. Ainsi, on peut distinguer 2
principales périodes dans la vie du projet, à savoir : d'août 1993 à septembre 1996 et de décembre 1997 ­ à
décembre 2001, suivie d'une prorogation d'une année soit de Janvier à décembre 2002. Les activités
réalisées dans le cadre des différentes composantes ont touché 5 (quatre) domaines essentiels, à savoir : .
i) l'appui institutionnel ;
ii) l'appui à la production d'exportation ;
Iii ) la mobilisation de ressources financières ;
iv) l'appui à la commercialisation ;
v) la Gestion et la supervision du Projet .
Un montant de 24,6 millions USD a été alloué au Projet par l'IDA (20,8 millions), le Gouvernement
guinéen (2,5 millions), les bénéficiaires (0,7 million) et le FAC (0,6 million).

                                    A. Performances Globales du Projet

En rapprochant les résultats obtenus aux prévisions fixées dans le cadre logique de base, amendé et mis à
jour après 1997, le constat général est que les performances quantitatives immédiates atteintes sont
certainement inférieures aux seuils déterminés dans le cadre logique de base.

Elimination des contraintes : Les résultats sont plus visibles en matière de cadre incitatif. Environ 84% des
32 contraintes identifiées lors des évaluations de 1992 et 1997 ont été éliminées             entièrement, ou
suffisamment pour ne plus constituer d'obstacles majeurs. Ce sont les contraintes financières et certaines
contraintes techniques liées à la production qui restent encore des obstacles majeurs.
Volumes exportés : L'élimination des contraintes n'a toutefois pas permis d'atteindre les objectifs en
matière de volume de production et d'exportation. L'hypothèse de base selon laquelle l'amélioration du
cadre incitatif en plus de quelques infrastructures de désenclavement entraînerait la relance des
exportations agricoles par un accroissement des volumes au niveau indiqué, s'est avérée limitée. Il
s'avère que les objectifs initiaux étaient très ambitieux, sans compter une analyse irréaliste des
capacités existantes qui avait été faite. En l'an 2000, 8.968 tonnes de produits agricoles ont été exportés
contre 25.000 tonnes prévus dans le rapport d'évaluation de 1992. Les exportations de produits de la mer
sont passées de 700 t en 1997 à 2000 t en 2001. Quant aux produits de l'élevage, les exportations ont
atteint 40 containers de 20 pieds de peaux fraîches en 2001 pour un seul opérateur (les autres n'ayant pas
fourni de statistiques ). Pour le miel et la cire les quantités exportées ont atteint 50 tonnes en 2000.
L'extension de la gamme des produits couverts par le projet au café d'abord, ensuite à ceux de la pêche et
de l'élevage en plus d'autres produits agricoles, est intervenue à la restructuration. Le projet ne couvrant à
l'origine que les fruits et légumes.

Qualité des produits : Des normes nationales de qualité pour 7 produits d'exportation ont été élaborées et



                                                     - 32 -

diffusées sur les 9 envisagés dans le cadre d'une Convention de collaboration passée entre l'Institut national
de normalisation et de métrologie et le projet. Le Projet a initié par ailleurs la mise en place d'un Groupe
technique sur la sécurité sanitaire des aliments ( GTSSA ) en relation avec l'ensemble des services
nationaux concernés par ce sujet. Un projet de décret de création et d'organisation d'un Comité National
sur la Sécurité Sanitaire des aliments ( CNSSA ) préparé par ce Groupe a été approuvé. Les activités dans
ce cadre se poursuivront à travers un Programme « Stratégie Qualité » et un TCP de la FAO en faveur de
l'hygiène et l'innocuité des aliments. La qualité des produits agricoles à l'exportation a connu une nette
amélioration. Pour la mangue, par exemple, le taux d'acceptation au centre de conditionnement de Fandjé
est passé de 20% à 68% entre 2000 et 2002 réduisant ainsi la quantité des rejets et des écarts de tri, et du
coup contribuant à l'augmentation des revenus des producteurs et des collecteurs. Le taux d'acceptation du
marché a atteint 99,96% en 2002 pour les exportations vers l'UE, ce qui a son tour a donné des prix
fortement rémunérateurs pour la mangue/avion d'origine guinéenne en 2000 et 2001 sur le marché de
Rungis à Paris. Le système d'inspection et d'assurance de la qualité des produits de la pêche a aussi connu
une amélioration significative. Les cas d'analyses défavorables des échantillons au niveau des pays
importateurs sont devenus rares ou presque nuls. Ainsi, les réclamations pour non conformité des produits
aux normes de qualité requises sont passées de 6 en 1998 à une seule en 2001. Grâce aux appuis
significatifs du projet tant au niveau des installations de traitement du poisson frais qu'à celui des services
de contrôle, la Guinée continuera à figurer sur la liste des pays exportateurs vers l'UE jusqu'en juillet
2003, date à la quelle une nouvelle inspection est prévue.

Compétitivité : L'étude de compétitivité réalisée par le Projet en 2001 a abouti à la conclusion que la marge
de rentabilité est faible sinon nulle pour les principaux produits frais actuellement exportés, du fait du coût
prohibitif du fret maritime en conteneurs réfrigérés et de certains frais liés aux prestations du port de
Conakry, et du taux de fret aérien à l'escale de Conakry. Il en résulte, pour ces produits, que les créneaux
les plus rentables sont les niches à plus haute valeur ajoutée, qui, elles, peuvent supporter un taux de fret
aérien élevé à l'escale de Conakry. Seule la réalisation d'une masse critique de 300 tonnes de produits frais
permettra d'améliorer la situation par rapport aux origines concurrentes ouest africaines, parce que
pouvant justifier 2 arrêts par mois, des navires à calles réfrigérées au Port de Conakry. Il en va de même
pour les vols réguliers et les charters avions à l'escale de Conakry qui requièrent un volume, de 10 à 25
tonnes au moins, une ponctualité, une régularité assurées avant de proposer un taux de fret en dessous d'un
dollar US. Face à l'évidence qu'en dépit des coûts élevés des principaux facteurs de production et même de
leur rareté (Intrants, semences, outillage, énergie, etc.) les livraisons de produits FOB présentent encore un
niveau proche de celles des pays concurrents, il devenait absolument indispensable et urgent de faire face
aux principales contraintes identifiées. Une démarche action a été engagée pour tenter d'éliminer
progressivement ces contraintes par le biais du plaidoyer. Les exportateurs, les transitaires, les
producteurs se sont constitués en Groupes Thématiques pour faire face à la situation sur la base d'un
plan d'action détaillé. Ceci a permis d'obtenir l'accès libre et sans frais dans l'enceinte portuaire à toute
heure pour les camions transportant les produits d'exportation. L'existence des 5 Groupes thématiques, une
meilleure connaissance du plaidoyer, la maîtrise de l'étendue et des mécanismes de contraintes permettront
désormais aux opérateurs privés d'aborder avec plus d'adresse les autorité afin de négocier et d'obtenir des
assouplissements ou l' élimination pure et simple de certaines contraintes.

 Offre et demande : Les contacts avec plusieurs importateurs européens (Espagne, France, Hollande) en
vue de nouer des relations de partenariat entre les exportateurs et des clients potentiels pour la vente et la
promotion des fruits et légumes de Guinée ont abouti à des demandes de quantités significatives, d'ananas,
de noix de cajou, d'igname, de haricot vert et d'avocat (variété HASS), pour la France, de mangue pour la
Hollande et l'Espagne, d'amende et de beurre de Karité pour la Hollande et de miel pour le Maroc. Bien
plus, le projet a démarché et obtenu la mise en réseau des exportateurs guinéens en s'affiliant au
COLEACP, en s'abonnant au système des informations de marchés du Centre international du commerce à


                                                      - 33 -

Genève, le réseau de l'Entreprise privée en Afrique de l'Ouest, autant d'organismes supranationaux qui
favorisent la recherche de débouchés, mais surtout la recherche de partenaires techniques, commerciaux et
même financiers. La considération des seules données quantitatives ne pourrait suffire, à elle seule,
pour évaluer et mesurer les performances intrinsèques du Projet. Le PCPEA a permis de remettre la
Guinée sur le marché de l'exportation des produits agricoles. Les producteurs et exportateurs sont
mieux informés sur les réalités des marchés, et mieux outillés pour la recherche de débouchés.

Exécution financière : Le taux d'exécution financière du Projet a été de 74% au 25 novembre 2002 date de
fin de la supervision finale du projet par l'IDA. De cette date au 31 décembre 2002, date officielle de
clôture du projet, et au 30 avril 2003 des dépenses ont été effectuées à partir des factures reçues avant la
date de clôture qui viennent augmenter le taux de décaissement qui s'élève à plus de 82%. Les montants
non décaissés auraient pu être utilisés si la date de clôture du projet avait été repoussée au 31 décembre
2003, comme l'avait suggéré la mission de supervision de l'IDA de septembre 2001.

                                     B. Performances par Composante

1. Appui Institutionnel
1.1 Appui à la chambre de commerce, d'industrie et d'agriculture (CCIAG) :
Les conditionnalités de mise en oeuvre de ce volet n'ayant pas été satisfaites, le Projet s'est limité à la mise
à la disposition de la chambre d'une mission d'assistance technique en Organisation consulaire. Malgré une
nette amélioration par rapport à la situation de 1992, la capacité opérationnelle de la CCIAG reste encore
limitée tant au niveau central qu'au niveau décentralisé. Les centimes additionnels constituent la principale
source budgétaire de la chambre (74,88% en 2001). Il faut noter que le processus de développement de la
Chambre à conduit à la création d'une Chambre nationale d'agriculture et d'une Chambre du commerce de
l'industrie et de l'artisanat.

1.2 Appui aux organisations professionnelles (OP) : Malgré les efforts conjugués du Projet et d'autres
partenaires, le développement des OP est toujours limité par des contraintes identifiées lors de l'évaluation
de 1992. Il n'existe aucun texte législatif ou réglementaire régissant le fonctionnement des OP. Dans leur
grande majorité, les OP ne tiennent pas régulièrement d'assemblées générales et ne développent pas
d'activités efficaces en faveur de leurs membres. Seule la Fédération des Paysans du Fouta Djallon a réussi
à obtenir quelques décisions du Gouvernement en faveur des filières de la pomme de terre et de l'oignon.

Cependant, grâce aux actions de diversification menées par le Projet, un élan nouveau est amorcé avec
l'émergence des filières non conventionnelles (noix de cajou, papaye solo, avocat, pomme de terre) dont les
opérateurs font preuve de plus de méthode et de dynamisme. Aussi, les Groupements d'Intérêt Economique
(GIE) appuyés dans leur démarche par le Projet, commencent à se créer dans le secteur des exportations
agricoles (exemple : AGRO EXPORT Guinée). La faible performance du volet appui aux OP dépend en
grande partie de l'attitude des opérateurs qui ne sont pas arrivés à concilier le fait que bien qu'étant des
concurrents sur le marché, ils ont des intérêts communs à défendre. La stratégie d'intervention du projet a
consisté à développer des activités répondant aux besoins exprimés par les OP. Il s'est avéré que
l'essentiel des besoins exprimés concernaient plus des appuis pour la facilitation des activités économiques.
Les OP n'étant pas au même stade de développement, leurs besoins en appui ne sont pas les mêmes. Une
approche différenciée est donc nécessaire pour des interventions efficaces. Aussi, la structuration des OP
devrait distinguer les fonctions techniques de celles de leadership, les premières revenant à une équipe
technique (le personnel rémunéré de l'OP) et les secondes au bureau des élus.

1.3 Appui aux groupements et coopératives de producteurs : En plus de l'encadrement des groupements



                                                    - 34 -

de paysans dans le cadre du volet appui aux PME, il était prévu de développer des groupements de
producteurs et de coopératives pour relancer l'offre du secteur privé des exportations agricoles. Ce volet
devait être exécuté principalement par le PDMCG, le PNVA et le volet PME du PCPEA. Le PDMCG n'a
pas été effectivement mis en oeuvre et n'a donc pas développé d'activités d'appui aux groupements et
coopératives. L'appui du PCPEA s'est limité à la fourniture de matériel de bureau au SENATEC. L'Etat,
pour sa part, a adopté la loi sur les coopératives et les décrets d'application et fixé les prérogatives de tous
les services publics chargés de l'appui aux coopératives.

1.4 Appui aux services gouvernementaux : Avec l'appui du Projet, le Centre d'appui aux formalités
d'exportation a été créé par décret présidentiel en 1997 en tant qu'établissement public à caractère
administratif, doté de l'autonomie administrative et financière. Entre 1998 et 2000, quatre Bureaux d'appui
du CAFEX ont été mis en place dont à l'aéroport et au port de Conakry, au Ministère du Commerce et à
Labé. Ces centres, qui sont des services publics, délivrent les certificats nécessaires à l`exportation par
voie aérienne, maritime et terrestre, des produits agricoles guinéens, vers les pays de la sous région et les
marchés européens, etc. Le CAFEX constitue un guichet unique où l'exportateur peut accomplir toutes les
formalités requises pour l'exportation. Le CAFEX, le PCPEA et d'autres services publics jouent un rôle
d'interface entre le Gouvernement et les exportateurs dans ce cadre. Par ailleurs, en synergie avec la FAO,
le Projet a apporté un appui au Service National des Statistiques Agricoles (SNSA) pour la restauration de
son siège, l'achat de matériel informatique et de bureau et la formation de son personnel. Ce qui a permis à
ce service de poursuivre le recensement national de l'agriculture entamé par le PNSA (Projet national des
services agricoles) et compromis par la clôture de ce projet en 2000.

1.5 Environnement de la réglementation : Les contraintes relatives à la réglementation douanière, des
changes, des ressources foncières en milieu rural ont été assouplies, mises à jour, et rendues plus visibles de
façon notable. Pris sur l'initiative et l'action de préparation et de plaidoyer du projet, un décret présidentiel
précise les besoins en intrants, équipements et matériaux nécessaires à la production, au traitement et au
conditionnement des produits agricoles, de la pêche et de l'élevage en détaillant la nomenclature et le tarif
des douanes, et en redéfinissant les conditions et modalités d'octroi des exonérations partielle ou totale des
droits et taxes à l'occasion de l'importation et de l'enlèvement, à l'exception de la RTL, et du droit
d`enregistrement. Les régimes suspensifs de droits ont été instaurés pour les emballages et les matières
premières nécessaires à leur fabrication sur place.        L'ouverture de compte en devises est désormais
autorisée à tout guinéen, même si, parfois, des décisions obligeant les dépositaires à rétrocéder ces devises
aux banques commerciales sont imposées. L'obligation de transférer les revenus des exportations demeure
mais n'est généralement pas respectée par les exportateurs qui, pour la plupart, utilisent leurs revenus en
devises pour payer leurs importations souvent pré financées par leurs importateurs de produits, sans passer
par les banques commerciales. Les exportateurs, sous l'impulsion du projet, ont engagé un plaidoyer
vigoureux pour assouplir les dispositions dans ce domaine et ont exposé aux autorités les
conséquences d'un contrôle obligatoire des ressources en devises issues des exportations, associé à un
contrôle de la qualité commerciale. Ils ont également expliqué que le coût des prestations envisagées
grèverait davantage les exportations guinéennes et compromettrait leur compétitivité. Le code foncier
et ses textes d'application ont été adoptés depuis 1994. Le Bureau de la Conservation Foncière chargé
d'appliquer ces textes, délivre maintenant des titres fonciers y compris pour les domaines agricoles.
Cependant l'utilisation du titre foncier comme sûreté réelle n'est pas une pratique courante par les banques.

2. Appui à la Production d'Exportation

2.1 Recherche adaptative et vulgarisation agricole : Les résultats de la collaboration des services
agricoles avec le PCPEA ont été en deçà des espérances. Seuls 4,21% du financement prévu en faveur de



                                                      - 35 -

l'IRAG ont été effectivement décaissés sans aboutir à des résultats tangibles. Malgré la signature d'une
convention PCPEA ­ SNPRV et le décaissement de 31% des montants prévus, le SNPRV n'a pas
développé de compétences et une approche spécifiques aux cultures d'exportation. La recherche adaptative
devrait impliquer davantage les opérateurs à qui il revient de définir les besoins et d'évaluer les résultats.
Le projet a suivi cette tendance tout en assurant des ouvertures de collaboration entre opérateurs, et
entre ceux-ci et les services agricoles. Les conventions élaborées dans cette perspective ont été assez bien
suivies comme ce fut le cas des parcelles pilotes d'ananas Queen Tahiti de l'Union des Groupements de
Producteurs d'Ananas de Maférinya (UGPAM), le verger pilote d'avocatiers de APACOR, etc. Un
nouveau type de relation a été ainsi conceptualisé pour favoriser un cadre de synergie qui permette
d'intégrer dès au départ les facteurs de marché à la production, donnant ainsi plus de chance à la
réalisation de marges de profit par des gains de compétitivité.

2.2 Appui aux PME (nuclei) : Pour obtenir la masse critique de produits d'exportation, la stratégie du
projet a consisté à financer des PME (nuclei) qui, à leur tour, devaient encadrer les paysans. Au total 13
nuclei ont signé avec le Projet des conventions qui ont exécutées seulement à environ 31,6% . Les
bénéficiaires ont reçu dans ce cadre des équipements d'irrigation, des tracteurs, des chambres froides et des
mûrisseries, ainsi que des camions et autres moyens de transports, à partir des allocations budgétaires
individuelles, évaluées sur la base des prévisions d'encadrement des petits producteurs et des relevés
d'exportations compilés des LTA (lettre de Transport aérien). Pour les campagnes 94 /95 et 95/:96 ces
nuclei ont mis en valeur 165,5 ha de terres, produit 2915,5 tonnes, exporté 2.893,259 t de fruits et
légumes et encadré 72 groupements de paysans. Ils n'ont pour autant pas réussi à créer la masse critique
de produits agricoles d'exportation. Moins d'un tiers d'entre eux         existent aujourd'hui et continuent
d'opérer dans le secteur des exportations agricoles au gré des opportunités de subventions et des marchés.
En fait, les appuis étaient initialement destinés à des sociétés de plantations industrielles comme Guinée
fleurs, SAIG Mamou, SOBRAGUI, SALGUIDIA, SOPAG de Labé, etc. qui opéraient au moment de la
préparation du Projet, mais qui avaient toutes disparues avant sa mise en oeuvre. Ceux qui ont
effectivement reçu des appuis n'avaient pas suffisamment de moyens opérationnels, des réseaux
commerciaux bien établis et d'expérience pour encadrer les paysans et produire la masse critique espéré.
La principale conséquence de cette approche, a été non seulement de favoriser une perception erronée du
projet comme une source de subvention à fonds perdus, mais surtout d'exposer le projet à des conflits
permanents et perturbants sur le rôle, les missions et les moyens du projet.

2.3 Diversification agricole : En plus de la mangue et de l'ananas, le Projet a réussi à élargir la gamme de
l'offre à l'anacarde, la papaye solo en deux variétés, le haricot vert « extra fin » et bobby, l'avocatier en 5
nouvelles variétés, l'ananas Queen Tahiti et victoria, la banane figue, le melon, la pastèque sans pépin, et le
café arabica. Pour cela, il a fourni à des producteurs sélectionnés, en fonction des besoins, des semences
améliorées, des engrais et des       produits phytosanitaires d'appoint,    et a organisé des rencontres de
sensibilisation, des formations et des voyages d'études pour certains d'entre eux, dans le cadre de
conventions de collaboration, à coûts partagés, entre les opérateurs privés, le projet et les services
agricoles. Le projet a également conceptualisé cette approche en développant au sein d'une une charte
des biens et services, les parcelle pilotes de diversification (PPD) tout comme les missions de
renforcement de capacités et de mise en réseau des producteurs et des exportateurs. Il a aussi diffusé
des fascicules sur les itinéraires techniques des produits ou recueillis auprès d'organismes nationaux et
étrangers, et procédé à des tests de production, de conditionnement et de mise à marché des produits à
partir d'échantillons prélevés auprès des producteurs. Suite aux tests de marché, chacun de ses produits a
suscité l'intérêt des clients étrangers. Par ailleurs, le projet a accompagné des investisseurs étrangers dans
leurs projets d'introduction de nouvelles variétés de produits. Ce fut le cas pour les melons, la pastèque
sans pépins, l'ananas queen victoria, le haricot vert extra fin, etc..



                                                       - 36 -

L'engouement créé dans le développement des cultures pérennes, en particulier au niveau de dizaines de
fonctionnaires qui se sont lancés dans la culture de l'anacarde , considérée comme très rentable, laisse
augurer l'émergence d'une nouvelle génération de planteurs plus aptes à s'organiser et à contribuer à mieux
gérer ces filières nouvelles. La mission du projet dans ce cadre a été de créer les conditions d'une amorce
d'un développement des exportations à partir des données favorables de marchés, et d'une certaine
connaissance des conditions de culture et de productivité de ces nouvelles spéculations, en se fondant sur le
potentiel agricole du pays et la prédisposition des population à s'investir dans l'agriculture et de se
diversifier en profitant des différentes régions et niches agro climatiques et pédologiques. Le SNPRV,
l'IRAG et certaines entités privées comme APACOR, SPCIA et Agroexport Guinée, devraient prendre la
relève du Projet pour développer ce volet de diversification agricole.

3. Mobilisation de Ressources Financières

Avant 1996, les efforts du Projet ont été concentrés sur l'appui au crédit mutuel et la création d'un Fonds
privé d'investissement. A partir de 1997, il a été décidé de mettre en place un fonds de préfinancement des
exportations agricoles (FPEA) et un Fonds d'escompte des crédits aux exportations (FECE). Seul le
FPEA a été effectivement opérationnel en désespoir de cause, suite à la disparition prématurée du FGPCA
(Fonds de garantie des prêts en commercialisation agricole ) crée grâce à l'appui de l'USAID ). Le FPEA,
considéré comme un moyen d'aide à la trésorerie de campagne, a servi à financer les opérations post
récolte, l'emballage des produits à exporter et le transport aérien ou maritime en faveur d'exportateurs
individuels ou groupés. Sur la base de critères de gestion des risques de collecte, de vente et de paiements,
387 millions de GNF ont été octroyés pour couvrir essentiellement plus de 1300 t de mangues à l'export.
Le projet envisageait d'accroître de 10% par an le montant des crédits accordés aux opérateurs pour
atteindre le niveau équivalent de USD 500.000 devant constituer le FPEA à céder aux banques
commerciales à la fin du projet. Cet objectif n'a pas été atteint principalement à cause du taux moyen de
remboursement de 73,16% enregistré sur cinq ans (1997 ­2001). Ainsi, dans un environnement caractérisé
par la réticence des banques commerciales à octroyer des crédits aux exportateurs, le Projet a opté pour
l'appui à l'émergence d'exportateurs professionnels. Les efforts devraient certainement être orientés vers le
rétablissement de la confiance des banques commerciales envers les opérateurs. Cependant, la taille des
exportateurs guinéens, les volumes produits, traités et exportés, le montant des crédits de campagne
sollicités, le caractère périssable de la plupart des produits, les modalités commerciales traditionnelles
(vente à la commission, avance d'importateur, obligation de respect des cahiers de charges, etc.), et
les antécédents de crédits non payés, en rajoute à la frilosité des banques commerciales en Guinée
envers les exportateurs. Les organismes de crédit et de micro crédits non bancaires méconnaissent le
secteur et hésitent à s'y engager.

En se fondant sur cette réalité, le projet dans sa mission fondamentale de promotion, s'est efforcé de
recouvrer les ressources de crédit non recouvrées en utilisant en premier lieu une démarche administrative,
avant de recourir, en second lieu à une procédure de recouvrement par la voie voie judiciaire.

Par ailleurs, le projet a initié des journées de promotion des investissements directs étrangers dans les
productions agricoles d'exportation (JIDEX), destinées à attirer des investisseurs étrangers dans le
secteur agricole d'exportation de la Guinée. Ces journées se sont tenues, en France, en Belgique et en
Afrique du sud, où une vingtaine d'investisseurs ont été directement rencontrés, informés et
sensibilisés par une forte délégation gouvernementale et les membres des Ambassades guinéennes
dans ces pays. Dans ce cadre, un guide pratique des investisseurs agricoles à vocation d'exportation a été
élaboré. Un site Web a été également mis en place. Ce site annonce entre autres choses, l'existence d'une
convention type d'établissement des investisseurs contenant des incitations diverses d'ordre fiscal et


                                                    - 37 -

douanier, et un bail agricole type favorisant l'accès à la terre pour les besoins de développement de projets
agricoles destinés à l'exportation. Avec un exportateur étranger de mangues installé à ce jour (la SIPEF),
sur les 3 ayant fait des prospection et un en cours d'installation ( NUTRISOJA appuyé par la ABSA Bank
d`Afrique du Sud, pour une prévision d'investissement de 5 millions de dollars), les résultats sont
certainement en deçà des attentes légitimes. Toutefois, d'autres investisseurs ont indirectement profité des
assurances offertes par les JIDEX. Ce sont : Le Centre de multiplication des rejets d'ananas Queen
Victoria amélioré, et le Groupement Kouyaté export, qui sont actuellement en pleine activité.

4. Développement d'Infrastructures

4.1 Infrastructures routières : Au début du Projet, il était prévu de réhabiliter 550 km de pistes, objectif
ramené à 250km suite à la revue à mi-parcours. Au total, 190,1 km de pistes ont été effectivement. Le
tronçon non réalisé est celui reliant Kankan et Mandiana (80km) , en Haute Guinée. La relève du Projet
dans ce domaine pourrait être assurée par les services préfectoraux des travaux publics, les CRD, les
comités villageois d'entretien des pistes (CVEP) avec l'appui de projets tels que le PACV et la supervision
de la DNGR.

4.2 Infrastructures de stockage et de conditionnement : Pour assurer la qualité des produits destinés à
l'exportation depuis les sites de conditionnement jusqu'aux différents sites d'expédition, le Projet, en
accord avec les Organisations de producteurs et des exportateurs, a procédé à la construction ou à la
réhabilitation et/ou l'équipement de : 5 centres de conditionnement et de contrôle de qualité, situés à
Matoto, Fandjé, et Kankan., un magasin de stockage de produits agricole à Soumbalako, un centre de
conditionnement de la mangue à Daboyah, dans Kindia. et une station de calibrage multi produits à
Mandiana. Dix séchoirs solaires de cerise de café ont été produits localement et fournis aux producteurs en
vue d'améliorer la qualité du café guinéen qui souffre d'une décote sérieuses à cause de sa mauvaise qualité
Un terminal de produits périssables à l'aéroport de Conakry avec des chambres froides de 1500 mètres
cube de volume, utilisable pour les fruits et légumes et les poissons, a été également construit. Les voies
d'accès à ce terminal ne sont pas encore construites. Les dossiers techniques sont préparés. Les démarches
pour le financement de ces voies sont en cours. Le PDU a été pressenti pour le faire. Le Gouvernement
n'exclut pas la possibilité de le faire en raison de l'urgence de la construction de ces voies, compte tenu de
l'imminence de la saison hivernale, et les inconvénients majeurs liés à la longue immobilisation de ce
précieux investissement.     La société de gestion du Terminal est en constitution dans le cadre d'une
structuration institutionnelle regroupant les filières concernées et leurs prestataires que sont les transitaires
et manutentionnaires de la place. La SOGEAC, concessionnaire de l'espace aéroportuaire, est vivement
intéressée à cette opération.
Les infrastructures de stockage et de conditionnement sont exploités par :
         - la SIPEF pour le        centre de conditionnement de mangues de Fandjé, à Forécariah. Les
équipements de ce centre viennent d'être transférés à Daboyah pour des raisons de surcoûts liés au
transport et au traitement de la mangue. Le Centre vétuste de Daboyah préalablement installé dans le cadre
du projet Ananas financé par la Banque Mondiale, a été conjointement réhabilité par la SIPEF et le projet.
Il est actuellement opérationnel;
         - l'Union des Groupement d'Agriculteurs de Soumbalako (UGAS) pour le magasin de stockage de
produits agricoles (pomme de terre, oignons, mais, ...) à Soumbalako ;
         - Nabekam-BIO pour le Centre de Entag dans la périphérie de Conkry, au PK 24, pour la
campagne de mangues en cours.

4.3 Infrastructures portuaires : Le wharf de Fandjé et ses installations connexes, à savoir les voies
d'accès, l'aire de stationnement des camions ont été entièrement réalisés. Les études hydrographiques de la
Méllacorée permettant de produire et d'enregistrer les données bathymétriques, courantologiques et


                                                       - 38 -

géodésiques pour les fins de balisage, ont été faites. Ces données devront permettre de produire les cahiers
de charges nécessaires à l'appel d'offres pour les travaux de balisage de la Méllacorée. Concernant les
infrastructures au sol, l'étude de faisabilité technique et économique de l'aménagement du site portuaire de
Benty a été également faite. Le faible niveau d'exécution de ce volet s'explique non seulement par la
complexité de l'aménagement portuaire et la prévention des risques majeurs de navigation et
d'accostage, mais surtout, par les incursions de troupes de rebelles dans les frontières de la Guinée en
septembre 2000. La situation d'insécurité qui a régné dans cette zone de concentration des activités
essentielles du projet a durablement et négativement influencé la performance technique et financière
d'ensemble du projet .

5. Gestion Administrative et Financière

La gestion du projet à l'origine était confiée a une équipe d'assistants techniques mise en place par une
firme étrangère recrutée par voie d'appel d'offres international. Un Coordonnateur National du projet a été
recruté et intégré à l'équipe de la firme de la même façon que l'Assistant technique du PREF. Un Comité de
pilotage aux prérogatives a été mis en place. L'une des difficultés essentielles répertoriées en 1995 dans la
gestion du projet était la longueur des procédures de signatures requises pour les Demandes de retrait de
fonds. Il existait également les conflits multiples de tutelle qui entravaient le bon fonctionnement de la
Cellule de gestion. La revue à mi parcours du projet à mis en évidence ces contraintes et bien d'autres pour
recommander une restructuration en profondeur du projet et de ses mécanismes de gestion. Les efforts
d'amélioration de la gestion ont conduit à des nouvelles descriptions de postes, une nouvelle structure, un
manuel des règles et procédures de gestion, des approches et outils de travail privilégiant la communication
active, le travail en équipe, une méthode et un cadre de planification des actions et de suivi évaluation axé
sur les ateliers résidentiels annuels dont 6 se sont tenus, un calendrier et un cadre de reporting,
l'externalisation des tâches et activités spécifiques délicates, la sous-traitance d'activités lourdes, etc. La
diversité et l'étendue des tâches exécutives liées à l'administration des dossiers des sous projets, au
reporting (rapports annuels ou sur 18 mois compte tenu des activités prolongées, notes de situation
mensuelle, rapports d'étape pour les Ateliers ou les misions de supervision), au suivi opérationnel, etc. ont
conduit à la mobilisation de 3 cadres de direction, 4 chargés de Programmes internes, deux Chargés de
programmes externes, un spécialiste en passation des marchés, et un Chargé du Système d'information et
du Suivi évaluation.

Au plan financier, le Projet a connu de sérieux problèmes de décaissement liés essentiellement au niveau
du compte spécial qui n'a pas été ramené au niveau préalable de USD 400.000, à la non disponibilité à
temps et dans les montants requis, des fonds de contrepartie et aux différentes restructurations. La
trésorerie du projet est restée tendue et exposé à des insuffisances quasi permettant, rendant les arbitrages
difficiles et délicats. Au 31 octobre 2002, le taux de décaissement se situait à 74%, correspondant à un
solde disponible de 5.164.476 USD            Ce solde est ramené à 3.274. 616,75 USD en considérant les
engagements à payer avant le 31 décembre 2002, date de clôture du Projet. Le taux de décaissement se
situera donc à 78,45%.         La mise en place d'une cellule suivi et évaluation en 1997 a permis : i)
l'élaboration d'un manuel de Suivi Evaluation du projet ; ii) la mise en place d'un observatoire Marchés /
Produits pour les prix de certains produits ; iii) la mise à jour du cadre logique du Projet ; et iv) la mise en
place de plusieurs bases de données informatisées notamment sur les exportations agricoles en Guinée.
Cependant, l'efficacité du volet suivi et évaluation a été compromise par la fuite de cerveaux dont a
souffert le projet et les difficultés de collecte des informations à partir des sources publiques.

                                            C. Dispositif de Pérennisation des Acquis

Le projet depuis sa restructuration a mis au centre de sa démarche la nécessité d'intégrer l'identification


                                                        - 39 -

d'une action dans la perspective de consolidation et de pérennisation des acquis matériels et immatériels. En
terme conceptuel, deux années avant la clôture du projet, une réunion d'information et de sensibilisation
s'est déroulée sous les auspices du Ministère de tutelle, à l'occasion de laquelle la Direction du projet a
présenté un schéma de pérennisation des biens et services du projet. Il s'agissait en plus du CAFEX (Centre
d'appui aux formalités d'exportation) crée depuis fin 1997, des alternatives ADEXA (Association pour le
développement des exportations agricoles) constituée en ONG, SOPROMEX (société de promotion des
exportations agricoles) constituée en Société à capitaux privés du type S.A ou S.A.R.L., et de l'ANAPEX
(Agence nationale de promotion des exportations agricoles ) constituée en Agence publique société
anonyme à capitaux publics. Une charte de création d'un GIE (Groupement d'intérêt économique) a été
préparée en collaboration avec quelques exportateurs et producteurs de fruits et légumes. L'instabilité des
opérateurs des filières à cause de leur quête perpétuelle d'opportunités de profit au gré des marchés, la
faiblesse de leurs ressources et le caractère très mouvant du coût des facteurs, etc., n'ont pas permis de
poursuivre ces schémas qui, dans d'autres conditions plus favorables auraient aider à les créer. L'existence
du CAFEX et son action porteuse de satisfaction a conduit à opter finalement pour une extension de ses
attributions et de sa couverture géographique afin que les missions essentielles du projet de nature service
public y soient logées.

                              D. Principales Leçons et Contribution des Parties

La phase de conception, de préparation, et d' évaluation du projet a connu des problèmes qui ont eu un
effet négatif sur ses résultats. D'abord confiées à un cabinet international dont les travaux ont été jugés
insuffisants, les études du projet ont finalement été réalisées par des consultants indépendants,. Il en a
résulté un temps de préparation relativement long (1989-1992) au cours duquel des données essentielles
ainsi que des hypothèses ont changé. Par exemple, les nucleus sur lesquels le projet misait pour produire la
masse critique avaient presque toutes disparues en 1992. Malheureusement, la situation de référence du
projet n'a pas été revue pour tenir compte de ce fait. L'approche Projet s'est avérée insuffisante pour
atteindre les résultats escomptés. L'approche programme semble mieux appropriée pour relancer les
exportations agricoles d'un pays comme la Guinée où la production est faible en quantité et en qualité, les
infrastructures et la logistique d'exportation sommaires, les Services agricoles intégrant très peu les
données d'un marché hautement concurrentiel, le secteur privé moins informé sur les réalités du marché et
préparé pour les intégrer dans leurs démarches.. L'immensité et la diversité du potentiel agricole, les «
souvenirs d'un passé révolu au plan bananier notamment », les inerties d'un passé d'une économie
centralisée et introvertie, et l'enthousiasme d'une libéralisation considérée comme la panacée, etc. ont vite
eu raison du projet et de ses indicateurs optimistes. Par ailleurs, en s'orientant sur le marché européen, le
Projet a surestimé les capacités de la Guinée à affronter des concurrents plus expérimentés sur ce marché.
Aussi, il n'a pas pris suffisamment en compte les potentialités non négligeables du marché sous régional
pour lequel des arrangements tarifaires et non tarifaires très préférentiels ont été mis en place par des
Accords durables (CEDEAO, UFM, CEAO/UMOA,...). La proximité géographique, et les traditions
d'échanges, auraien constituer des moyens de départs vers un espace plus adapté, nous préparant mieux et
plus vite à la relance compétitive de nos exportations. De là, l'on se fixerait des objectifs d'exportation
plus réaliste vers les grands marchés.

Lors de la mise en oeuvre du projet, les missions de supervision de la Banque, en particulier celle de
septembre 2001, a reconnu le dynamisme et la compétence des cadres du projet. Des contraintes et écarts
de performance au niveau de l'exécution du Projet, ainsi que des recommandations conséquentes pour les
corriger ont été formulées. Les retards dans le dénouement de certaines des difficultés et d'application de
certaines de ces recommandations de la Banque, ont eu des implications négatives sur les résultats, en
particulier, dans le calendrier d'exécution des activités. C'est le cas des amendements sur le dossier des
études hydrographiques de la Méllacorée, des aspects froid du dossier technique du terminal, des JIDEX de


                                                    - 40 -

l'Afrique du sud, du redéploiement des ressources humaines, et de la mise en place d'un système de suivi-
évaluation sur laquelle la Banque a insisté en 1994 et qui n'a été entamée qu'en 1997. Cependant il faut
noter aussi que le Projet a souffert des trois changements de Chargé de Projet à l'IDA, chacun venant avec
son style de management, son profil, son budget de temps (plan de charge) toujours contraignant pour
donner les avis motivés de non objection aux requêtes, planifier les supervisions, et même avec ses priorités
spécifiques. Le dernier changement intervenu moins d'une année avant la clôture, au lieu de contribuer à
une impulsion des activités par une facilitation et un appui conséquent, a plutôt engendré des interventions
intempestives dans la gestion quotidienne, et un harcèlement autoritaire, ce qui est incompatible avec les
progrès attendus sur des actions initiées bien avant. Les difficultés de communication et de transmission des
dossiers ont entravé le rythme des activités et ont conduit à des recherches longues de dossiers, si ce n'est à
des pertes. On note aussi que les rapports de mission de supervision ne reflètent généralement, dans leur
plus grande partie, que le point de vue de la Banque. Il est souhaitable que de tels documents offrent la
possibilité à la partie guinéenne de s'exprimer librement sur les questions qui y sont soulevées et soient
rédigés conjointement par les deux parties, comme cela se faisait durant les premières années post
restructuration. Les évolutions au niveau de la Banque en matière de décentralisation des fonctions de
supervision ou de supervision rapprochée doivent être prises en compte et, les ajustements proposés à
temps à la structure de gestion. L'évaluation des performances devra se faire par rapport, à une situation de
référence, avant de la faire par rapport aux ajustements opérés en cours d'exécution.

Le Gouvernement guinéen a contribué dans une large mesure à agir pour éliminer ou réduire
progressivement les contraintes identifiées lors des évaluations du Projet par des mesures de politique
économique et des actions spécifiques mises en oeuvre au fil des longues années d'exécution du projet. Les
mesures et restrictions budgétaires liées aux efforts d'ajustement et d'assainissement, la détérioration du
contexte sécuritaire et économique par les agressions de rebelles et l'effort de guerre en 2000 qui s'en est
suivi, n'ont pas permis de rendre le pays tout à fait attractif aux yeux des investisseurs. Certaines de ses
actions ont aussi influencé négativement l'exécution du Projet. La non disponibilité récurrente des fonds de
contrepartie financière d `exécution du Projet a certainement joué considérablement sur les résultats du
projet. Plus que tout autre projet, le PCPEA a souffert de cette situation qui l'obligeait à s'engager dans des
arbitrages des dépenses face à une trésorerie réduite par le niveau du compte spécial qui représentait la
moitié de ce qui était prévu à l'origine, et à des écarts sur le compte spécial à résorber à tout moment pour
ne pas s'exposer à des suspensions de réapprovisionnement. Il convient aussi de noter les fréquentes
limitations des décaissements imposées au moins 2 fois par an à tous les projets par le Ministère des
Finances à la veille des missions du FMI et de la Banque. Ceci a également ralenti la rapidité des
décaissements, parce que obligeant les projet a obtenir les paraphes et cachets préalables du Trésor sur les
chèques aux fournisseurs et prestataires divers. Les importations du projet ou de ses fournisseurs,
normalement admises hors droits et taxes, étaient soumises à des procédures d'enlèvement pénalisantes et
aux procédures des Chèques du trésor série spéciale (CTSS) qui sont longues. Ces tracasseries ont toujours
produit des effets négatifs sur les délais d'exécution des activités et la trésorerie des entreprises, partenaires
du Projet.

Au cours de son existence, le Projet a changé plusieurs fois de ministère de tutelle, avec des niveaux
d'ingérence plus ou moins accru dans le processus de prise de décision. Même avec la maîtrise d'Ouvrage
Déléguée de la première période, ces ingérences étaient manifestes. Les tracasseries administratives au
niveau de certaines administrations et services publics sont aussi à l'origine de certaines contre
performances dans la mesure où elles réduisent à néant certains avantages accordés aux exportateurs (cas
des surestaries dus aux retards dans le traitement des dossiers d'importation qui peuvent dépasser le
montant des exonérations accordées). Des activités du projet ont aussi souffert de retards dans l'obtention
de décisions d'attribution de domaines ou dans l'application des clauses d'exonération de droits de douanes
sur les importations d'équipements et d'intrants agricoles.


                                                     - 41 -

Par ailleurs, le projet a supporté le poids d'un grand nombre d'activités hors plan de travail. Il s'agit
notamment de l'appui apporté au SNSA dans le cadre de la poursuite du Recensement National de
l'Agriculture (RNA), commencé par le PNSA et non achevé à sa clôture. Les activités liées également à la
préparation de la composante infrastructures de commercialisation du PNIR 2 et les études stratégiques
d'impact environnemental et social des sous projets ont pris du temps, et de l'énergie du personnel de la
structure de gestion du projet. Il en va de même pour les travaux préparatoires de l'Initiative fertilité des
sols (IFS), des voyages d'études sur les intrants agricoles, etc. Aussi bien l'Emprunteur que le Bailleur ont
présenté des requêtes dans ce sens.




                                                    - 42 -

- 43 -

