Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Et¢-r~p.,  N.F1E . OPY SSS    (atl i!y;)e   ( JN )Report No. 9997-GUI
R(:pc'rLt No.      J9-4JTye (CA
BALCET, J(_,' X:34;:S4  / J8173/ AF1A(;
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
May 29, 1992
Agricultural Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GNF)
US$ 1.0 = GNF 710 1/
SDR 1.0 = USS 1.37 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APDF         -      Africa Private Development Facility (IFC)
AEF          -      Africa Enterprise Fund (IFC)
CCCE         -      Caisse Certrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CCIAG        -      Chambre de Commerce, d'lndustrie et d'Agriculture de Guin6e
-     Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture
CICM         -      Centre International de Credit Mutuel
-     International Center for Mutual Credit
CLIFEL       -      Comite de Liaison Interprofessionnel pour les Fruits et legumes
-     Interprofessional Liaison Committee for Fruits and Vegetables
COLEACP    -        Liaison Committee Europe/Africa - Caribbean - Pacific, for the Promotion of
Tropical Fruits, Off-Season Vegetables, Flowers, Ornamental Plants and
Spices
DND          -      Direction Nationale de la Decentralisation
-     National Directorate for Decentralization
DNGR         -      Direction Nationale du Genie Rural (MARA)
-     National Directorate of Rural Engineering
EEC          -      European Economic Community
IFC          -      International Finance Corporation
FAC          -      Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (France)
IRAG         -      Institut de Recherche Agronomique de Guinee (MARA)
-     Agronomic Research Institute of Guinea
MARA         -      Ministere de I'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales
-     Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Ressources
MCTT         -      Ministry of Commerce, Transport and Tourism
MIPME        -      Ministere de l'lndustrie et des PME
-     Ministry of Industry and SMEs
MPF          -      Ministry of Planning and Finance
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
PCPEA        -      Projet Cadre de Promotion des Exportations Agricoles
-     National Agricultural Export Promotion Project
PDMCG        -      Projet de D6veloppement du Mouvement Coop6ratif en Guin6e
-     Cooperative Development Project of Guinea
PESRPP       -      Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Project
PNIR         -      Projet National d'lnfrastructure Rurale
-     National Rural Infrastructure Project
PNVA         -      Projet National de Vulgarisation Agricole
-     National Agricultural Extension Project
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
PSPP         -      Private Sector Promotion Program
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Lending
SENATEC      -      Service National d'Appui Technique et d'Enregistrement des Cooperatives (SED)
-     National Service for Technical Support and Registration of Cooperatives
SME          -      Small and Medium Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/    Represents the exchange rate at appraisal in May 1991. The exchange rate is established
through an auction system and was GNF 922 to the U.S. dollar at negotiations in May
1992.
2/    As of May 8, 1992.



FOR OFiCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ................................. i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ........................................... ii
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTR  ....................................... v
I. INTRODUCTION  .......................................................... I
II. INCENTIVES FRAMEWORK  .............................................. 2
A. Country Economic Background ...................................... 2
B. Reform Program  .............          ................................... 2
C. Investment Climate .............................................. 3
D. Regulatory Framework  ........................................... 4
E. Institutional Set-Up .............................................. 6
F. Banking System and Credit  ....................................... 8
Ill. SECTORAL SETTING  ................................................... 9
A. Agricultural Sector ........................................ 9
B. Agricultural Export Sub-Sector ...................................... 9
C. Constraints to Agricultural Exports                    ..                         11
1. Regulatory and Institutional Constraints ...............1 1
2. Technical Constraints ............... 12
D. Government Agricultural Strategy          ..................... 13
E. Export-Oriented Agricultural Operations      ..14
1. Public Projects .14
2. Nucleus Estates.                                                            14
F. IDA Agricultural Sector Strategy..                                              15
G. Lessons Let int from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement    ..16
IV. THE PROJECT .16
A. Project Rationale, Objectives, Strategy and Summary Description .16
B. Detailed Features .18
1. Institution Development .18
2. Support to Production .19
3. Special Programs .23
4. Project Management ...... .. ...............................   25
C. Project Costs and Financing .................................. 26
1. Cost Estimates  .................................. 26
2. Financing  .................................. 28
3. Procurement .................................. 29
4. Disbursement and Revolving Funds .31
5. Financial Mgt, Accounting and Audit Requirements .32
D. Project Organization and Management         ..33
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission which took place from May 5 to
25, 1991, consisting of Messrs. Jean-Claude Balcet (Mission Leader, AFlAG), Bertrand de Chazal
(AFlAG), Yovan Grouitch (AFlAG) and Siaka Bakayoko (AF1AA). Mr. Jakob Meerman (AF3AG)
was the Peer Reviewer and Mr. Jean-Jacques Deschamps (AF1 IE) the Project Advisor. Mr. Michael
J. Gillette is Department Director (AFI), Mr. Theodore Nkodo (AFI AG) Chief of the Agriculture
Operations Division, and Mr. Jean-Claude Balcet (AFI AG), Task Manager. Ms Hortense Ngudl6
provided most of the assistance for the secretarial work.
I    'r-    -1   .tor     *  .      -^ A s  *   *   **    *-.                          I



Table of Contents (Cont'd) .............................................. Ele
V.  PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PR!CES .35
A. Fresh Pineapples .................................... .......  36
B. Fresh Mangoes ....... 37
C. Mango Pulp  ........ .......... ............................... 38
D. Non-Traditional Commodities .38
E. Summary  .................................................... 39
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..................................             39
A. Project Benefits .39
B. Economic Justification .40
C. Budgetary and Balance of Payment Impact .41
D. Environmental Impact .41
E. Risks .41
VII. ASSURANCES. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .42
ANNEXES
1.    Description of Nucleus Estates
2.    Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture and Industry of Guinea (CCIAG)
Appendix 1. Current Situation
Appendix 2. Changes Proposed under the Project
Chart 1. Organizational Chart
Chart 2. Proposed Export Promotion Division
3.    Description of Professional Organizations
4.    Letter of Agricultural Export Development Policy (LPDEA)
5.    Terms of Reference of the Resident Technical Assistance
6.    Private Investment Fund
Table 1. List of Potential Investment Projects
Table 2. Estimated Operating Budget of the Fund Management Company
Chart 1. Processing Chart
7.    Cost Estimates
Table 1. Summary Accounts by Project component
Table 2. Project Components by Year
Table 3. Summary Accounts by Year
8.    Technical Assistance and Management/Services Contracts
9.    Disbursement Schedule and Profile
10.   Project Implementation Schedule
11.   Supervision Schedule
12.   Project Organizational Chart
13.   Monitoring and Evaluation System
14.   Production, Markets and Prices
Table 1. Pineapple Yield Levels
Table 2. Mango Area (Replaced/Grafted) and Production
Table 3. Area Under Pineapple
Table 4. Pineapple Production
Table 5. Pineapple Production Costs (Nucleus Estates and Outgrowers)
Table 6. Pineapple Input Costs and Labor Requirements (Independent
Smallholders)
Table 7. Mango Production Costs (Estates)
Table 8. Mango Input Costs and Labor Requirements (Smallholders)
Table 9. Farmgate Price for Pineapples and Mangoes
Table 10. Export Forecasts for New-Traditional Commodities
MAPS
IBRD No. 23527 and 23528



{i)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Proiect File
A. BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.          Diagnostic Review of the Investment Climate, FIAS, September 1988
2.          Private Sector Support Program, President Report, IBRD, April 1990
3.          Impact of Structural Adjustment Reforms on the Industrial Sector, World Bank,
June 18, 1990
4.          Country Economic Memoranium (two volumes), World Bank, November 1990
5.          Studies by COLEACP (Comite de Liaison pour les Exportations de Fruits Legumes et
Fleurs de Pays ACP) concerning fruit exports from Guinea, May 1991:
-     Etude approfondie du marche de la CEE
-     Etude relance des productions fruitieres en Guinee, M. Pie
-     Etude socio-economique, Malik Conde
-     Etude contrOle de qualite, M. Beaudoin
-     Etude de la chatne de froid, M. Roubaud
-     Etude du transport maritime, M. Couvert
6.          Lettre de Politique de Developpement Agricole (LPDA), October 1991 (three volumes)
B. PREPARATION DOCUMENTS AND WORKING PAPERS
1 .         Revue des Institutions, Michael Fromageot-Langstaff, September 1990
2.          StratOgie commercials pour les produits de la filiere horticole en Guinee, M. Boyer-
Vidal, BDPA/SCET AGRI, December 1990
3.          Revue des Aspects Agronomiques des Cultures d'Exportation, Jean-Pierre Capo-
Canellas, January 1991
4.          Analyse des Principales Filieres A I'Exportation, M. Graindorge, January 1991.
5.          Assistance A l'elaboration d'une Lettre de politique de developpement des exportations
agricoles, John Macrae, March 1991
6.          Etude de faisabilite d'une Societe Guin6enne d'lnvestissement, Pierre De Raet et
Francis Nyirjesy, April 1991
7.          Cooperatives, Ms. Lisa Matt, April 1991
8.          Audit institutionnel de la CCIAG, Claude Metman (Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie
de Paris) et Michael Fromageot-Langstaff, April 1991
9.          Audit Financier de la CCIAG, Price Waterhouse-Conakry, April 1991
10.          Etude d'Impact sur I'Environnement du PCPEA, Nicolas Egli, mai 8 1992



(ii)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTLON PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          The Government of Guinea
Beneficiaries:     arivate/sermi-rivate entities: Guinean Chamber of Commerce (CCIAG),
Interprofessional Uaison Committee for Fruits and Vegetables (CLIFEL),
selected nucleus estates, Mutuel Credit Company (CICM), and Private
Investment Fund Management Company; and aovernment oroiects/services:
National Extension Project (PNVA), National Institute of Agronomic Research
(IRAG), Cooperatives Development Project (PDMCG), National Cocperotives
Service (SENATEC) and National Directorate of Rural Engineering ('NGR).
Credit Amount:     SDR 15.2 million (US$20.8 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Descriotion:  The project aims to strengthen the incentives framework and remove the
obstacles to the supply response in the agricultural export sector. In this
sector that offers promising investment opportunities, it will assist in the
application of the policy measures designed to create an enabling environment
and increase the operational context for private sector activities. The main
strategic orientations will be to: la) support professional organizations to
strengthen the bargaining power of private operators vis-a-vis the
Administration and enhance their business capabilities; (b) provide the required
support services to strengthen the operational context in which private
investments are made; (c) assist private Guinean operators to establish
partnerships with external investors to secure technical expertise, market
outlets and funding for their export businesses; and (d) support smallholders
and Small-and-Medium Enterprises considered the agents for the long-term
development of the sector; in the short-to-medium term, priority will also be
given to the nucleus estates which are better equipped to generate the critical
mass of production and can be relied upon to provide extension to surrounding
outgrowers. The following project components will support the above
strategy:
(a)   institution buildina. by strengthening professional organizations dealing with the
export sector;
(b)   sugport to exoort oroduction by providing specialized technical services
(research, extension, management assistance, etc.) to producers (small and
large, including producer groups and cooperatives); this component will include
access roads to open up producing areas;
(c)   special oroorams (Mutuel Credit and Private Investment Fund schemes)
addressing financial constraints to agricultural exports; and
(d)   proiect manaaement through a project management contract with a private
consultant firm (the "Project Manager") that will have full delegation of
authority (mattrise d'ouvrage deleguee) to implement the project.
The project will be implemented in close liaison with the proposed EEC-funded
Fruit Promotion Project which will include a specialized line of credit and
specific production-oriented components, such as quality control and
production of planting material.  The project's institution building and
management components will have national scope and encompass all
agricultural export industries, with the exception of rubber, palm oil and cotton
which are being developed under specialized filiAre' projects. The project
production support components will cover, as core zone of intervention, the
armer 'banana triangle- prefectures in Maritime Guinea and the Fouta Djallon.



ii)
Estimated Protect Costs                          Loca         u    rco        Totat          U Of
49! ----- UNliffan ........   Bast Costs
A.  Institution Develoamnt
1.  Institution Support Cowa.                 0.3            1.0           1.3             6
2.  Chamber of Commerce                       0.2            0.4           o.e             3
3.  Professional Organizations                 ia            L.           0L5              31
Subtotal                             0.7           1.7            2.4            12
B. Production Support
1.  Extenion                                  0.8            2.0           2.8            14
2.  Adtiv  Resarch                            0.6            1.7           2.3            11
3   Ssll/M.dium Enterpriess                   0.3            1.0           1.4             6
4   Prod. groups/Coops                        0.6            0.9           1.5             7
5.  Access Ro ds                              1.0            LA 434                       271
Subtotal                             3.3           8.0           11.3           55
C.  Srecial Prosrams
1.  Mutuel Credit                             0.4            0.7           1.1             5
2.  Private Investment Fund                  0L4             1.6           2.0            10
Subtotal                             0.8           2.3            3.1            '5
D. Proiect Prepar:tfon and Management
1   Project Management                        0.9            1.1           2.0             9
2.  Project Preparation Facility f            0L2            1.7           1.9             9
Subtotal                             1.1           2.8            3.9            18
Total Base Costs                                  5.9           14.8          20.7           100
Phvical Contingencies                         9.4            1.0           1.4             7
Price Contingemcies                           1.4            1.1           2.5            12
Total Project Costs (including taxes)             7.7           16.9          24.6           119
Taxes                                             1.9            _              1.9
Total Project Costs (net of taxes)                5.8           16.9          22.7
17     Inctuding  tIve PPF advances against the present credit totalling USS 1.5 million, and one PPF advance against
Cr. 1626-GUI amounting to USS430,000.
Financina Plan                                   Local         Forei n        Total
-----usg  r  li on.-----
Goverment                                         2.3            0.2           2.5
IDA                                               4.7           16.1          20.8
FAC                                                 -0.6                       0.6
Beneficiaries                                     9              0             0 6
Total                                             7.7           16.9          24.6
Estimated Disbursements from the IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
nnual                          2.8     3.5     4.6      4.2     2.6     1.9      1.2
Cuwmlative                     2.8     6.3    10.9    15.1    17.7    19.6    20.8
Internal Rate of Return (production cowponents): 17X



(iv)
Benefits and Risks
Benefits. The main project benefits will accrue from supporting a development strategy
targetted on private operators, in a sector that offers promising development opportunities. The
project will aim .t getting the reform mrreasures effectively applied in this sector, thereby helping to
create an enabling environment in the entire economy. In this respect, it will be a necessary
complement to the Government's reform program supported by the Bank under the on-going SAL 11 and
Private Sector Promotioti (PSPP) programs and proposed Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and
Privatization Project (PESRPP). The project's goals which are geared to the short-to-medium term will
also complement those pursued under other Bank projects aimed at the long-term development of the
agricultural sector, in particular the on-going Research and Extension project (FY89) and the proposed
Credit and Cooperatives project (FY95). The institution-building component -- aimed at private sector
institutions - will render the strategy operational. Increased export activities will result: (a) at the
micro-level in increased incomes for the private operators (small and large) doing business in the
various agricultural export industries; and (b) at the macro-level, in the establishment of a broader base
for economic growth, including diversification of the sources of foreign exchange.
Ris. The major risk is that the business climate may not improve on account of
factors outside the project's control. This risk wil' be minimized by: (a) the effective application of
policy measures requested as part of the IDA-supported Private Sector Promotion Program (PSPP);
these measures are designed to strengthen the incentives framework; (b) the overall support and
coaching provided under the project to private-oriented activities that will act as catalyst to restore
confidence amongst investors; and (c) the strengthening of the Chamber of Commerce and professional
organizations that will help empower the private sector and defend its interests vis-A-vis the
Government.
Another risk, also in great part outside project control, is the continued reluctance of
commercial banks to provide term credit for agricultural export businesses. This risk will be mitigated
by: (a) the application of specific policy measures requested as part of the PSPP and PESRPP programs
(concerning in particular the establishment of bank guarantees and the strengthening of the judicial
system); (b) the implementation, under the project, of a private investment fund scheme under which
advisory support and equity funds will be provided; and (c) the establishment of a specialized line of
credit, es part of the proposed EEC-funded Fruit Promotion Project.
A technical risk is that the advanced techniques required to produce non-traditional
crops and adapt to the requirements of the rapidly evolving external markets not introduced in a timely
fashion. To address such a risk: (a) on the production side, the project will provide specialized
technical support so that appropiate technologies be incorporated into research programs and
dissseminated to producers in a timely fashion; the nucleus estates will be instrumental to achieve the
latter objective; and (b) on the marketing side, the project's institution support component will provide
the necessary commercial information and help Guinean operators establish partnerships with foreign
partners.
An operational risk is that the public projects which will be used for the execution of
certain components may not have the required operational capacity and that their objectives (which
are long-term) may not coincide with project objectives (which have shorter horizon). This problem
will be circumvented by: (a) precisely specifying the tasks to be performed as part of the
implementation contracts; (b) providing the required operating facilities under these contracts; and (c)
ensuring close monitoring of contract execution. A final operational bottleneck may be the insufficient
supply of fertilizer and planting material to smallholders. This bottleneck is specifically addressed by
the proposed EEC-funded Fruit Promotion Project; it will also be eased as estates produce plants on
a commercial basis and supply inputs under seasonal production contracts to outgrowers, and as small-
and-medium size enterprises (SMEs) establish themselves with project support to provide production
services and inputs.



Iv)
REPUUIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJET
KEY MFTURE9 OF THE RURAL $EC-OR
1. OUl*
m                            4.7                         6.6
Rural as % of Total                                   Y                           84                          76
Rural Famlse                                         '000                        611                         7 0
2. E        v 
GDP/Heeo ottotal Population                           9                          310                         390
Agriculturl GDPlHead of
Rural PopulAtion                                      6                          140                         188
Agtbultural GDP as % of Total                                                     30                          29
3. Land Use
Total Land Area                                      m2                          246                          246
Perennial Crops                                    '000 he                       130                          210
Annual Crops                                       '000 ha                       910                         1,330
4. Area Forewted
Dense Forest                                       '000 ha                                                    800
Wooded Savanna                                      000 ha                                                   1,700
Bush Savanna                                       '000 ha                                                  12,000
Shrub Sevens and Fallow                            '000 ha                                               6,150
Mangrove                                           '000 ha                                                    260
5. outp3n
Rice -O 0t                                                                       376                         4a0
Maize                                                000 t                        60                          45
Cassava                                              000t                        220                         500
Coffee                                             'Coot                          14                           7
6. Trade
iatd Exports                                         * m                         186                         761
Agrcultural Expoit                                    I                            3                           S
Total Imports                                         t m                        257                         615
Agrcultural imports                                   6                           13                          18
7. Goverment Exbonditure
Total Expendltures                                   * m                                                     640
Recurrent Budget                                     $ m                         212                         285
Capital Budget                                       * m                         174                         2S5



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01         Guinea's agricultural export potential is indisputable.  Historical analyses and
comparison with neighboring countries suggest that it produced -- and could still produce -- a wide
varied' of crops for domestic consumption and export. Recently, Guinea's development strategy for
agriculture has concentrated on food crops to substitute for imports and achieve Food security, and
on a few commercial crops (cotton, coffee; now, oil palm and rubber). Whilst the supply response for
these crops appears significant, it will be insufficient to ensure a substaitive and balanced growth for
the sector. Also, additional foreign exchange will be needed in the medium term to supplement
traditional sources of export earnings (mining exports) that are necessarily limited. Guinea therefore
will have to turn to agricultural exports to sustain and diversify its economic growth and generate new
foreign exchange revenues.
1.02         Since the beginning of 1986, Guinea has embarked on a major program of economic
reforms supported by IDA, which has led to the gradual elimination of major economic distortions
(paras 2.03 to 2.05). Under this program, the following measures are favorable to exports: trade and
prices have been liberalized, the banking sector has been revamped, a favorable Investment Code is
in place, and the Government has adopted a flexible exchange rate policy. The latter is perhaps the
most important condition for competitiveness on external markets. These measures have contributed
to keeping the cost of local factors down (especially non-tradables, such as land and labor) and
switching the terms of trade in favor of agricultural producers. In parallel, an ambitious investment
program is bringing about the badly-needed rehabilitation and expansion of the country's economic
infrastructure (primary roads, port and airport infrastructure, utilities; more recently, feeder roads and
telecommunications). Under the on-going administrative reforn. program, a large number of parastatals
have been privatized and the Administration continues to be streamlined.
1.03         The reform program has already generated substantial improvement in economic
performance emanating principally from the private sector, with significant increases in agriculture,
construction, transport and trade activities. The favorable context it has brought about accounts in
particular for the incipient response of agricultural export activities. Weak private sector development
and the Administration's limited capacity for economic and financial management, however, continue
to hamper the full realization of Guinea's growth potential. As a result, Guinean exporters are yet to
move decisively toward regaining the markets Guinea had at Independence when it was a major
exporter of bananas and pineapples, and toward making a dent on the international market for the non-
traditional exports for which Guinea has potential. As part of the ongoing reform program, the
Government aims to alleviate the above constraints in r; der to deepen and consolidate the adjustment
process. The major thrust of the program is to strengthen the incentives framework for private sector
activities whilst continuing to reform public sector management. The proposed National Agricultural
Export Promotion Project is consistent with this general thrust as it would contribute to increase and
diversify agricultural growth through private sector promotion.
1.04         The project was identified in January 1983. Technical preparation was carried out
under several PPF advances which served to finance a feasibility study, specialized short-term
consultancies to prepare specific dossiers and a management contract to establish a project preparation
unit (para 4.41). IDA Credit 1955-GUI was used to finance studies leading to the preparation of the
Letter of Agricultural Export Policy (LPDEA, para 4.01), and Credit 1234-GUI funded specialized
consultancies to prepare the Private Investment Fund component. The European Development Fund



(EDF) financed, in parallel, a set of studies focussing on quality control, transpo.' and marketing of
fresh fruits. In the course of preparation, close collaboration was maintained with IFC in particular over
the Daboya Plantation Project, and with the Africa Private Development Facility (APDF) which will
provide advisory assistance to private investors in connection with the establishment under the project
of the Privats Investment Corporation. Appraisal took place over May 15-25, 1991 and negotiations
over May 4-8, 1992. Board presentation is scheduled for June 23, 1992.
II. INCENTIVES FRAMEWORK
A.    Country Economic Backaround
2.01         Following Independence from France in 1958, Guinea during the First Republic adopted
"dirigiste" development policies whic;i sought tu modernize and industrialize the predominantly
agricultural economy under the gui.-ance of the State. Whilst these policies altered traditional
production patterns, they failed glaringly to bring about the anticipated industrialization and to sustain
economic growth or social development. GDP is estimated to have grown on average at less than the
rate of population growth (2.8%). From 1960 to 1974, GDP grew by only 2.4 percent per annum,
representing an overall decline of 4 percent in per capita terms over the period. Whilst the 1975-80
period was marked by growth of about 3.5 percent per annum with the start-up of major new bauxite
operations, growth declined again from 1980 as the new mines reached full capacity and most of the
rest of the economy continued in its inexorable decline. By 1985, per capita income estimated at
US$250, had declined to below the level at-ined in the previous decade and placed Guinea amongst
the poorest countries in the world.
2.02         Guinea's wide range of natural conditions allowed diversified rural production which
sustained nearly three-fourth of the country's population and accounted for over half of GDP in 1960.
Plantation agriculture (principally bananas, pineapples, palm kernels and coffee) provided much of
export earnings and public revenue. Although data for the period are unreliable, it is evident that
Guinea's per capita agricultural output declined substantially over the 1960-85 period.  The
performance of export crops during that period was particularly poor (para 3.04). Whilst exports to
the Eastern Bloc partners, with whom Guinea developed increasingly close trading arrangements,
partially compensated for the loss of convertible currency markets, this shift In agricultural trading
patterns diminished long-term ability to regain access to markets with more stringent quality
requirements. Growth in food production also fell below the rate of population growth, which lead to
increasing food imports (over 1 00,000t in 1985; at present over 250,000t).
B.    Reform Proaram
2.03         Since the beginning of 1986, the Govemment of Guinea has undertaken an ambitious
program of economic reforms aimed at reversing the extremely poor economic management which
characterized the country from Independence to 1984. The ongoirg Structural Adjustment (SAL)
program was designed to: (a) change the Guinean economy from a highly centralized, inefficient
command economy to one where resource allocation decisions would be based primarily on market
signals; and (b) lay the foundation for growth through enhancing efficiency in production and in public
sector management in the context of the State's new role in promoting development. Its main
elements are: (a) retrenchment of the State from directly productive sectors and restructuring of the
public sector through a comprehensive administrative and public enterprise reform; (b) resource
allocation policies consistent with the establishment of a liberal economy, through, inter alia, realistic
exchange rate, interest rate, and price/trade policies; and (c) macroeconomic policies consistent with
long-term fiscal and balance of payments equilibria.



-3-
2.04         The first phase of the SAL program (1386-88) entailed radical departure from the
policies of the past and required a systemic change. It was a "shock treatment" for the economy,
concentrating on removing the most glaring distortions in the incentives environment. It involved a
massive devaluation, extensive privatization, price/trade liberalization, and the creation of a comr. ircial
banking system. It was supported by a first Bank Structural Adjustment Credit, a Special African
Facility, and two annual arrangements under a Structural Adjustment Facility. The present phase of
the SAL involves a much mnore complex and difficult process of reforming institutions and changing
attitudes both within the Administration and the private sector. This phase is supported by the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II, Cr. 1926, FY88), the Second Economic Management Support
Project (EMSP II, Cr. 1963, FY89), as well as the Private Sector Promo!ion Program (PSPP, Cr. 2148,
FY91); the second tranches of SAL II and PSPP are yet to be released. The Bank is preparing a Public
Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Project IFY92L) that would aim to support the final
phase of privatizating and restructurating remaining parastatals. In November 1991, the IMF agreed
to go ahead with its Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), following approval by the IMF
and the Bank of the Policy Framework Paper (PFP). However, a joint Bank-Fund mission of February
1992 found that the Government had been unable to meet the performance criteria included in the
ESAFtPFP program. The IMF is to resume discussions in July 1992. The Paris Club meeting for Guinea
scheduled for April 1992 has also been postponed until the IMF Board approval.
2.05         To date, the supply response to the reforms has been encouraging but not dramatic.
Moreover, the nature of this growth has been in some ways disquieting. Growth in agriculture for
instance has not been accompanied by major productivity improvements. The most vigorous growth
has taken place in anci9lary sectors - transport, trade, construction and utilities -- driven by exterral
financing. In additiun, 'scause of the severe supply rigidities in the productive sectors, this growth
has only come at the cost of persistent inflation, which further jeopardizes its sustainability.
C.    Investment Climate
2.06         As part of the reform program, the Government has, since 1985, taken significant steps
to foster a favorable environment for private sector development, including a new Investment Code
introduced in January 1987. However, application of the reform package has been uneven. As a
result, the enthusiasm that Guinea had initially aroused from potential investors has now abated, and
the investment climate remains far from favorable. The major instrument of the Bank for assisting the
Government in improving the investment climate has been the Private Sector Promotion Program
(PSPP). A number of important reforms pertaining to the investment climate were undertaken prior to
declaring the PSPP effective in March 1991. These included the simplification of enterprise
establishment procedures (para 2.10), the clarification and rationalization o' access to investment
incentives, the liberalization of labor regulations (para 2.12), and a streamlining of the institutional
framework for investment promotion (para 2.13). Key amongst the reforms to be adopted prior to
second tranche release are: (a) practical steps to operationalize the institutional reforms previously
agreed upon; and (b) the continued implementation of the customs reform. In addition, under the
proposed IDA Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Technical Assistance Project, t* 1
Government will prepare a comprehensive program of legal reform aimed at strengthening the overall
legal system including the judiciary. To this effert, legal expert services and training in selected legal
field would be provided. Further actions needed to complement these efforts are also considered under
the proposed IDA Third Economic Management Project currently scheduled for appraisal in October
1993.
2.07         The bulk of Guinea's formal private sector is now comprised of a nucleus of recently
privatized State enterprises, involving the active participation of foreign interests. The privatized firms
cover a wide range of activities, including agro-processing. Whilst all of them have benefitted from
special investment conventions outside of the new Investment Code, many have experienced
difficulties with public authorities. The latter, in a number of instances, have reportedly failed to
respect their commitment under existing privatization agreements. Restructuring of these companies'



-4
labor force, in particular, has remained constrained by continuous intervention of the Ministry of Labor,
as well as by the intrusive role of trade unions. Under present circumstances, therefore, these firms
have little incentive to expand, and planned investments have generally been cut back or canceled.
2.08         Other investment in the formal industrial sector has been also been somewhat
disappointing. Although close to 100 private firms so far have qualified for benefits under the 1987
Investment Code, only a small fraction are fully operational, Present industrial activity remains
concentrated essentially in the wood processing, metal products, and food/agro-processing subsectors,
which account respectively for an estimated 30, 40, and 15 percent of industrial value added. In the
short-to-medium term, only the food/agro-processing subsector offers realistic prospects for export
growth. However, despite recent efforts to export fresh fruits, cut flowers and other agro-based
commodities (paras 3.06 and 3.07), the contribution of this sub-sector to Guinea's export earnings
remains low. A review of the policy environment indicates that formal private sector activity,
particularly in manufacturing and export industries, is still hampered by constraints related to: (a) the
regulatory framework; (b) the weak investment promotion structure; and (c) the lack of financial
facilities. These constraints are briefly reviewed in the next paragraphs.
D.    Reaulatorv Framework
2.09         Although important legislation has been adopted in recent years as part of the
Government's efforts to promote private sector development, the legislative framework regulating
business activity still retains inconsistencies and weaknesses that compromise its effectiveness. The
combination of ambiguity in the legislation, and lack of guidelines and procedures for its implementation
still confer arbitrary powers on government officials. There are few established rules of the game, and
the settlement of disputes usually leads to negotiations with public officials on a case-by-case basis.
This contributes to erode investors' confidence in Guinea's business environment.
2.10         Establishment orocedures provide an illustration of the discrepancy that still exists
between legal principle and accepted practice. The Law provides that any business not subject to
explicit nationality restrictions or that does not first have to comply with technical standards should
be free to establish itself in Guinea by simply incorporating at the Trade Registry. However,
incorporation procedures are onerous and time consuming. Moreover, the right of free establishment
is not always honored. Although the 'agr6ment technique" (license to operate) or the "carte de
commergant" (business license) are no longer officially required, oftentime in practice investors still
have to secure the prior approval of technical ministries responsible for the specific sectors in which
they plan to invest. Under the PSPP, a one-stop window (the "Centre de Formalites des Entreprisesw)
has been established at the Conakry Court House. The creation of such a service undoubtedly
represents an improvement, but it still needs to be made operational.
2.11         Land and Provertv Titles. By law, all land in Guinea belongs to the State, and private
entrepreneurs -- whether local or foreign -- need permission to lease it. However, most investors are
granted leases which are not clearly defined and frequently lead to lengthy disputes thereafter. In
other cases, companies seeking to expand existing operations have been unable to obtain leases on
neighboring plots, as requests for land occupation rights are either denied or remain unanswered.
Worse yet, poor record keeping has at times led to the granting of leases on land and buildings to
different parties at the same time. Such problems, which arise from both lack of appropriate property
ownerstiip lejislation and poor administration of land registration, constitute a major irritant for private
firms, particularly for foreign investors unfamiliar with the local context. To remedy this situation a
new Land Code ("Code Foncier") was approved in April 1992, following several years of preparation.
The Code recognizes the right of individuals to own land.  Approval of the Code constitutes an
important step in the right direction. The Government now needs to get it effectively applied.
2.12         Labor Reoulations. The new Labor Code provides for private enterprise freedom to hire
and fire labor. Before the code was adopted, the Ministry of Labor's prior approval was required,



which represented a time consuming and restrictive process. In line with the provision of the code,
the role of the National Manpower Office (ONEMO) as been redefined as that of a labor statistics unit.
However, the contracts for expatriate employees must be still be approved by the Ministry of Labor.
S!nce there are no set criteria for the approval of such contracts, nor are there any rules governing their
renewal, investors may face arbitrary denials both for new contracts and for renewals. Such problems
have contributed to further alienating foreign investors. The guidelines for implementing the provisions
of the new Labor Code have been finalized recently. The application of these guidelines should result
in a welcome improvement, in that, in particular, it will curtail the discretionary power of the Ministry
of Labor and its arbitrary intervention as intermediary between employers and employees.
2.13         Investment Code. Although a welcome improvement over the old code, the 1987 code
was still fairly complex. Moreover, some of the Code's eligibility criteria were imprecise, leading to
problems of interpretation and complicating the evaluation of individual applications. The situation has
been remedied recently under the PSPP. Offending articles have been eliminated and others have
clarified, which makes for more streamlined procedures. The code offers a large array of incentives
which can be awarded either individually or simultaneously to eligible firms. However, although most
of the eligibility criteria are intended to be performance-based, the National Investment Commission
lacks the resources and the procedural framework to effectively monitor compliance with the Code's
provisions. Applying for eligibility under the Code involves first the completion of the establishment
procedures. Once established, a firm normally has to wait another 80 days to have its application
processed. In practice, longer delays are common. As a result of the long processing time and of the
uncertainty surrounding implementation of the Code's provisions, investors often elect to circumvent
the Code altogether and "negotiate" special incentives packages entirely outside the Code framework.
Thus, duty and tax exemptions have been awarded on an ad hoc basis, which has served only to
distort the general incentives structure and encourage rent-seeking on the part of individual promoters.
Furthermore, implementation of these exemptions is not monitored systematically, since neither the
customs nor the tax department keeps an accurate inventory of all special conventions and exemptions
granted by the Government. This absence of strict monitoring has lead to lack of control and
widespread abuse of the system.
2.14         Customs Services. Customs services in Guinea have traditionally been notoriously
corrupt and inefficient. Poor customs management has been a hindrance to the development of
business activities and has represented a shortfall in resources for the national budget. The situation
has improved somewhat recently with the adoption of the new Customs Code beginning 1991. Since
that time, the Customs Administration has proceeded with the strengthening of its value assessment
unit and the establishment of the roving customs teams ("brigades mobiles"). The installation of the
computerized SYDONIA system is expected to accelerate the process of capacity building. These
developments are positive, as they will contribute to improving the business climate and increasing
customs receipts.
2.15         Judicial/Leaal System. The bottomline constraint to investing and doing business in
Guinea at present is not so much that there are still few rules of the game in the economic arena. In
fact, on paper the absence of regulations may be seen as an advantage over a complicated regulatory
framework. The problem is that the rules oftentime remain unapplied, due to the inefficiency and lack
of enforcement capacity of the judiciary system. It has to do also with the general spirit under which
regulations are implemented. Regulations are often seen as an obstacle to circumvent for one's
immediate profit, rather than procedures to be adhered to for the benefit of the public community.
Moreover, although official rules may be few, there are many unwritten rules that one has to comply
with in practice. Another negative aspect is that, in the absence of regulations, activities are assumed
to be forbidden whereas, in keeping with the spirit of the reforms, they should be held completely free.
This leads to arbitrary controls over certain activities by oversight ministries. Finally, once new
regulations are enacted, in practice, the old regulations oftentime continue remain in force although
they may have been abolished on paper. Eradicating the biased mentality of both civil servants and
private operators, and overhauling the judiciary system are long-term tasks which are essential if



- 6 -
private initiative is to be encouraged. The Government has on several occasions publicly expressed
commitment to this undertaking. The proposed Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Technical
Assistance Project (FY92L) which includes support to the legalfjudiciary system will be the vehicle for
the Government to move decisively on this front (para 2.06).
E.    Institutional Set-up
2.16         There are at present in Guinea several Institutions with a stated promotional role for
foreign investment, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and export activities: (a) the National Office
for the Promotion of SMEs under the Ministry of Industry (MIPME), recently reestablished as the Center
for Creation and Development of Enterprises (CCDE); in theory, CCDE is responsible for promoting and
assisting SMEs within Guinea; (b) the National Center for the Promotion of Private Investment (CNPIP)
under the Ministry of Planning (MPF); CNPIP was created in 1986 and is responsible, in principle, for
the promotion of foreign investment in Guinea; and (c) the Chamber of Commerce.  LIrdust...and
Aariculture of Guinea (CCIAG) for private sector development in general. In additioii. the National
Investment Commission at the Ministry of Planning also intervenies for investors seeking to qualify for
benefits under tne Investment Code (para 2.13). Fcr agricultural exports, another government entity
is involved: the Quality Control Service ("Service du Conditionnement") at the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources (MARA). Although the respective roles of these institutions may seem cler r on
paper, in practice, their activities are ill-delineated and have little focus, which often results in
overlapping responsibilities and conflicts of interest. Moreover, they have limited operational capacity,
and - with the exception of the Chamber of Commerce - are not appropriate mechanisms to enlist
private sector participation since they are either services of the Administration or State-controlled
entities. This lack of private sector institutions results in inadequate checks and balances in the
economic arena wherein unfavorable rules and practices are often imposed on the private sector which
is unable to properly organize itself and defend its interests.
2.17          It is clear that all above functions assigned to individual institutions are eventually
required to ensure adequate promotion of exports. In this regard, the issue is not so much to delineate
the responsibilities amongst the various existing institutions, but to avoid undue government
interference in the export promotion functions and ensure that the private sector can gradually assume
control over them. To achieve this objective, it is recommended to rely on professional organizations
(including the Chamber of Commerce) that can alone enlist private sector participation.
2.18         Chamber of Commerce. The Guinean Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture
(CCIAG) was re-established in 1985, after an eclipse of over twenty five years, and is the only
institution currently representing the private sector at large. The Chamber has a three-pronged role
(Annex 2): (a) internal liaison amongst the private sector community, by organizing dialogue and
consultation among members; (b) external representation, acting as a spokesman on behalf of the
private sector vis-a-vis govemment authorities; and (c) trade promotion, for Guinean products, services
and enterprises, on both national and foreign markets. The Chamber can therefore play a key role in
strengthening the private sector and in opening the latter to the international market, particularly in its
search for market outlets and potential partnerships.
2.19         However, the Chamber is faced with a number of problems: (a) inadequate status for
its staff; the Secretary General and the permanent staff are civil servants seconded and paid by their
respective ministries; (b) lack of financial resources: the sole source of funding comes from initial
admittance fees (annual membership fees cre not claimed); the ucentimes additionnels", a parafiscal
tax which should be levied to supply the Chamber's budget, has not yet been enforced; and the
Chamber does not yet have the capacity to undertake activities, consistent with its mandate, that
would generate resources, e.g. management services for equipment of public interest (bonded
warehouses for instance), organization of fairs and trade events, windows for delivery of official
documents, etc.; (c) inadequate facilities, in terms both of office space (the CCIAG is temporarily
domiciled at the People's Palace, after having been compelled to move out of several previous



-7 -
locations) and equipment; and (d) lack of interface with other promotion organizations both in Guinea
and abroad.
2.20         The above difficulties are a legacy of the past and are partly due to the peculia; historic
context in which the Chamber was born, at a time when professional organizations were considered
part of the Administration. As such, the Chamber was often used in the past, as a political forum by
the Government which has decreased its credibility vis-A-vis private operators. The situation has now
changed irreversibly. The Chamber is no longer a mere service of the Ministry of Commerce. It is
gaining stature and power as an independent body with more active representation of the private
sector. As part of project preparation new statutes have been prepared for the Chamber. The consular
assembly is due to discuss and vote on these statutes shortly. In parallel, in March 1992, the Head
of State took the unprecedented decision to cancel a 1986 decree designating the president of the
Chamber. The latter therefore had to resign and elections are planned to select a new president.
These are major developments which set the stage for the Chamber to become a truly independent and
democratic institution.
2.21         Professional Oraanizations. The few professional organizations that are involved in the
agricultural export sector have been created recently and still have limited functioning capacity. The
vertically-organized ones concern the following export sub-sectors ("filieres") (Annex 3): (a) fruit,
vegetable and flower sub-sector (horticultural filibre); (b) coffee/cocoa sub-sector; and (c) fishing sub-
sector. The horizontal ones have activities cutting across sub-sectors, such as the National Union of
Road Carriers (UNTRG) or the Union of Forwarding Agents. The common objectives of these
organizations are to: (a) represent and defend the interests of their members; (b) act as a lobby vis-a-
vis the authorities; and (c) help organize their respective sectors/sub-sectors, in all segments of
economic activity (production, processing/packaging, transport, marketing, etc.). The Chamber of
Commerce has a mandate to promote professional organizations so that they be both vertically
integrated and horizontally interlinked in order to ensure coherence and coordination of their activities.
2.22         Producer Grouos and Cooneratives. Despite a traditional society in Guinea that favored
cooperative organization, colonial efforts to impose formal cocperative structures generally resulted
in failure. Between 1910 and 1958 several cooperative structures of this type were created. They
were generally imposed by the colonial government to develop and deliver services in the rural areas.
Membership was required and financial contributions were equivalent to a rural tax. Exceptions were
COBAG (Cooperative Banani&re), and several other cooperative organizations producing and marketing
bananas and pineapple. These cooperatives were member driven and formed to address issues of price
instability for their products on the world markets. The fact that they survived after Independence is
testimony to their solid grassroots support. During the First Republic, the Government clearly favored
State-sponsored cooperatives created as collective organizations with social rather than economic
goals. They were viewed as a means of providing services to and extracting goods from the rural
population, and were driven by the requirements of outsiders rather than the needs of the membership.
At that time, cooperatives were in fact closely identified with the Party-State organization and many
cooperatives formed solely to gain access to subsidized goods/services provided by the State.
2.23         A new Cooperative Law was enacted in 1988, and a special service (SENATEC) was
created at the Secretariat of State for Decentralization (SED) to handle cooperative registration,
statistics/surveys of the cooperative movement and further development of the legislation. Although
it represented some progress over the old text of 1960, the new law still had the major shortcoming
of not providing for a truly independent cooperative movement. As a result, present cooperatives are
still to a large extent a legacy of the Sekou Toure years, with a number of new ones created only to
gain access to outside assistance or credit which often hinges on the formation of formally-recognized
groups. Positive developments have also occurred, as grassroots production groups have emerged in
certain areas to pool efforts in support of specific activities (coffee in Forest Guinea or pineapple
production in Maritime Guinea). This process has taken place in the regulatory framework established
by the 1988 Cooperative Law, often in a haphazard fashion as the rules were not enforced and



-8 -
cooperatives were acknowledged on an ad hoc basis (often arbitrarily) by the prefectures and/or
SENATEC. As a general rule, the existing cooperative and farmer group structures lack managerial and
financial skills, access to improved technology and credit, knowledge of marketing outlets and general
knowledge of how to do business in an increasingly competitive environment. Recently, the
Government has shown understanding of this situation and willingness to support the emergence of
truly cooperative businesses. A Cooperative Development Project (PDMCG) has been created with IDA
financing to deal with pilot field activities concerning cooperatives, and the Cooperative Law is being
revised.
F.    Bankina System and Credit
2.24         As part of the reform program, credit and banking activities were liberalized and a new
banking law was enacted. This was accompanied by the reorganization of the Central Bank and the
establishment of the new banks. In 1985-86, three new banks were given licenses to operate in the
country (BICIGUI, BIAG and SGBG) and in 1988 a fourth one (UIBG). All these banks were created
with partial or full private shareholding, and affiliated to large French banks. Among them, BICIGUI
was set up with material and technical assistance from IDA (Cr. 1 234-GUI) and participation in share
capital from IFC, with specific mandate to: (a) make available externally-funded project financing to
productive sectors; and (b) open a network of up to ten branches in the county's interior. The new
banks were granted special tax incentives and other privileges on a case-by-case basis under separate
agreements with the Central Bank. Progress achieved in the five years since the establishment of a
new banking system has been impressive. Total local currency deposits in the banking sector grew
from GNF 8.0 billion at the end of 1986 to GNF 34.4 billion by the end of 1990, with outstanding
credit to the private sector growing GNF 42.3 billion at end 1990.
2.25         Beyond the above figures, the mere fact that the Government has succeeded in
reorganizing the financial sector and making customary banking services available to private sector
operators and to the public at large is a major achievement of the reform program. Such services were
totally unavailable several years before. Among the new services, private firms have had mostly
unconstrained access to foreign exchange required to finance their imports through the newly-
established weekly auction at the Central Bank. At the same time, the banks were given responsibility
of a number of externally-funded lines of credit targeted to priority sectors including agriculture. Such
lines are highly subsidized (e.g. 15% for the CCCE line, 11 % for the EEC line against a 24% normal
rediscount rate) and are supported by local guarantee schemes with only a limited fraction of the
commercial risk bei. d borne the banks.
2.26         The recent progress however, should not mask the continuing deficiencies of the
sector. Overall, financial markets are still notably shallow. Generally, the banking system's
participation in day-to-day economic activity is weak. Despite the growth in overall credit activity
noted above, credit to the private sector is still essentially limited to the short-term financing of
international trade, with critically-needed term credit being mostly unavailable to private operators,
especially in the agricultural sector. The key factor in the banks' extremely cautious lending practices
is without doubt the unfavorable environment in which these banks are operating. Banks are
particularly constrained by: (a) the absence of past credit records on local operators coupled with a lack
of financial discipline on the part of local promoters; and (b) the generally deficient functioning of the
judicial system and legal void surrounding the issue of bank guarantees. The latter problem probably
constitutes the major limitation to banking activity in Guinea. It renders banks unable to enforce their
rights as creditors through foreclosures or other court-approved actions, due in particular to debtor-
judge collusion and rampant corruption in the judiciary (para 2.15). The absence of proper land
registration and property ownership legislation further compounds the problem, by making it in effect
impossible for banks to secure their loans with matching collateral (para 2.1 1).
2.27         Credit Mutuel and Credit Rural. Improved financial sector policies, in particular the
liberalization of interest rates, have created an opportunity for development of grassroots financial



intermediaries like Credit Mutuel. In September 1988, the International Center for Mutual Credit
(CICM) set up the first mutual credit operation in Guinea in Labd (Fouta Diallon), to be followed in 1989
by a second branch operation in Kindia (Maritime Guinea), and more recently in Gueckedou (Forest
Region). Credit Mutuel in Guinea is following a classical mutualistic approach of mobilizing savings
initially, followed by lending operations to members only out of mobilized savings. Interest rates for
lending operations are positive in real terms, and interest rates on deposits are competitive with market
conditions. The initial start-up costs and technical assistance have been provided by CICM under
French financing (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation). As of December 1990, resource mobilization by
Credit Mutuel in Labe amounted to GF 160 million, in spite of stiff competition from BICIGUI, and
lending operations are progressing at an equally successful pace. This early positive result clearly
demonstrates the public appeal of the Credit Mutuel system. An expansion program therefore has been
established for the creation of additional credit unions in the Maritime Region along the Conakry-Labe
road axis.
2.28         In 1989, the Credit Rural project began operating in Guinea, as a pilot operation in two
rural prefectures, Koundara and Telim6le. The project does not mobilize its own resources, but onlends
to individuals externally supplied funds from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
operating within small groups, with the joint guarantee of the group members. The pilot project was
very successful in loan recovery, through intensive follow-up of borrowers by project management.
The project management cost is extremely high at present, but this trend is expected to reverse as
more Guineans become trained operators. The Government and CCCE decided to pursue this initial
experiment for another two years, until end-1 992, in order to adequately assess its impact.
Ill. SECTORAL SETTING
A.    Agricultural Sector
3.01         With its abundance of water resources, rich ecological diversity, and favorable climate,
Guinea has the potential to produce a large variety of agricultural products for both domestic and
international markets. The rural sector is the mainstay of Guinea's economy, providing a livelihood to
over 75% of the population and generating about 30% of GNP. Agricultural production is still
predominantly based on smallholder farming and largely subsistence-oriented. Approximately 1.5
million ha is cultivated annually by about 770,000 families.
3.02         Four distinct agro-ecological zones are found in Guinea. Lower or Maritime along the
coast annually receives between 2,500 and 4,000 mm of rain, and produces rice, groundnuts and
fruits. Middle Guinea comprises the Fouta Djallon plateau (culminating at about 1500 m) where soils
are less fertile, rainfall less abundant (1500 to 2000 mm) , and temperatures lower than on the coast.
In this region, fonio is the staple food and fruits and vegetables grow in abundance; it contains about
half of the country's livestock. Upper Guinea where rainfall averages 1,200 to 2,000 mm is an
important cereal producing region, especially along the Niger River and its tributaries. Cotton is
potentially important. The Forest Region in the South consists of tropical forests and hilly terrain
reaching about 1700 m (Mount Nimba). Rainfall is relatively constant throughout the year (at average
of about 2500 mm) and permits two harvests. This region offe.s the richest agricultural conditions
in Guinea, especially for perennial crops (oil palm and rubber).
3.03         While agricultural statistics are still sparse and contradictory, the results of the
Govemment's recent reform effort appear encouraging. Private sector activity has expanded, food
production has increased significantly, small-scale enterprises are developing, and rural per capita
income is rising. Increases in agricultural production, however, have been accompanied by less
positive trends. Although agriculturia exports are slowly rising, they still only account for less than 5%
of total export eamings and are well below pre-independence levels. In contrast, food imports now



- 10 -
account for 15% of the total import bill. Of particular concern are rice imports which have doubled
since 1985 and tripled in the last ten years. Production increases have been primarily due to an
expansion in land area and not to an increase in yields. While land under cultivation only represents
about one quarter of total arable land, the practice of leaving land fallow implies that land capacity has
nearly reached its limits, and that further growth will have to result from intensification of agriculture
on better soils rather than from extension of cultivated areas. This process will need to be
accompanied by a more market-oriented approach wherein commercial crops (in particular those
destined for export) should play an increasing role and greater attention devoted to the preservation
of natural resources.
B.     Agricultural Exoort Sub-Sector
3.04           Evolution of Exoorts since Indeoendence.  At Independence, Guinean agriculture
accounted for 60% of export earnings, and provided substantial quantities for the export markets, inter
alia: 100,000 tons of bananas (for which Guinea ranked first world exporter), 20,000 tons of coffee
and 20,000 tons of palm kernels. In contrast, at the end of the First Republic in 1984, agricultural
exports had dwindled to minute quantities: 300 tons of coffee, 2,400 tons of palm kernels, 600 tons
of pineapples, 100 tons of mangoes and no longer any bananas. Exports have now regained
somewhat but remain small and well below potential. This evolution is illustrated by the next table.
Votume of Agricultural Exoorts
(metric tons)
1960        1970     1974-1980      1981-1985      1986-1988     1989-1990
Banana           55,000       20,000 1/    8,930 V          -             -
PineappLe         5,000        8,200       3,990           620           590 1/        2,000
Mango              n.a.         n.a.        800            180 i/        200            300
Coffee            16,000       4,650       1,960           580         4,965           9,000
Palm Kernel      23,000       13,025      11,985         6,080         3,300 2/        3,500
Cotton             -             -           -              -             -            2,500
Source: AIRD. Dec. 1989; Boyer-Vidal, Dec. 1990; and John Macrae, April 1991.
1/  Figure for 1971
g/  Banana exports were about 100,000 tons in 1956 and halted in 1979
3/ Average for 1987-1988
i/ Average for 1982-1984
2/ Average for 1986-1987
3.05           Present and potential export crops. Of the traditional export commodities, only coffee,
cocoa, cotton, and rubber have present and/or potential importance in Guinea. Qoffee production
reaches around 13,000 tons, on about 110,000 ha.  Because new planting material has been
introduced only recently (mainly through the RC2 project, para 3.17) and because most of post-harvest
operations are performed manually, coffee quality is still low. Production is forecasted at about 25,000
tons in 1996/97 and 40,000 tons by the year 2000. Cocoa production is officially estimated at the
insignificant level of 200 tons; but the real production level is likely to be closer to 2,000 tons, part
of which is smuggled outside the country as is the case for coffee. Cotton production was introduced
recently as part of a specialized "filiere" project under Compagnie Francaise Des Textiles (CFDT)
management in Upper Guinea and the Western part of the Fouta Djallon (para 3.17). Production,
presently around 2,500 tons, is targeted at 20,000 tons by the year 2000. Lastly, rubber, a new
export crop in Guinea, is being developed under the SOGUIPAH project currently under way in the
Forest Region (para 3.17). Exportable production of rubber is estimated at some 1 G,000 tons of rubber
by the year 2000. The project would also produce 8,000 tons of palm oil for the domestic market.



- 11 -
3.06          Amongst fruits, ineapples have traditionally been produced in abundance in Guinea,
but exports remain low (2,000 tons). Guinean varieties are appreciated and the crop would be
profitable at current prices if exports were shipped by sea. Export flows could grow with better export
organization and market penetration (para 5.07). Manooes exist in great abundance in the coastal
region and parts of Middle Guinea. The grafted varieties have been preserved and are still widespread,
although trees are old and need to be replanted. Total production far exceeds export quantities which
remain very low (300 tons) (para 5.10). Of all export crops, banana cultivation has declined the most
markedly. The plant stock is no longer of sufficient quality for the export market and only a limited
number of planters now master this complex crop. Production meets local demand but is not exported.
Qranaes are grown commercially for the domestic and regional fresh fruit market (Conakry and Dakar).
This crop has additional possibilities for the concentrate juice market, and flowers and leaves of certain
varieties are being used by! SOPAG of Labe for perfume essences (para 3.20).
3.07          A number of non-traditional fruits as well as vegetables have potential given the
favorable agro-climatic conditions prevailing in Guinea. The concentrate juice company SAIG-Mamou
(para 3.20) created in 1990 has introduced gassion fruit cultivation. The crop has potential to be very
profitable under Guinean conditions. Guava. Iims, graefruit and pagavas are all fruits with more
limited but significant production potential. The tropical fruit potential is complemented by off-season
fresh vegetables and cut flowers that were recently deve. )ped for exports by Guinee-Fleurs (para
3.20). In addition to the melons and cherry tomatoes exported by Guin6e-Fleurs before this company
had to close down recently, other vegetables have market potential both domestically and for export.
The avor.ado's situation is particularly auspicious in that it is a perennial and requires relatively little
care and labor. Supply of avocados is plentiful and production cost is low, but existing varieties are
not suited for the international market.
3.08          EXDOrt potentia. Estimates suggest that Guinea's agricultural exports could in the
medium-to-long term (year 2000) reach 75,000 tons annually for coffee and fresh horticultural
products, and 30,000 tons for other perennial. Together with processed products, this would be
equivalent to a-round US$130 million, i.e. ten times the present value of Guinean agricultural exports.
This potential can be distributed as follows: (a) coffe: 40,000 tons, given the important rehabilitation
efforts presently underway and planned; (b) fresh fruits and vegetables: 35,000 tons by focussing on
pineapples and mangoes (para 5.16); (c) Drocessed fruit (uice, juice concentrate, fruit pulp, dried fruit,
fruit paste, jam): currently at a marginal level, should show a sharp increase, with a potential of
approximately 5,000 tons of processed products (equivalent to 15/20,000 tons of fresh products); (d)
flowers and essential oils, with high value for insignificant volume, could reach about 15% of
agricultural exports value; and (e) other croDs: perennial (palm kernels, cocoa and rubber) and various
other export products (e.g. cotton, spices, ginger) could amount to 30,000 tons.
C.     Constraints to Aaricultural Exgorts
1.    Reoulatorv and Institutional Constraints
3.09          Agricultural exporters are confronted with difficulties similar to those experienced by
all businessmen at present in Guinea due to the prevailing adverse business climate. The regulatory
and institutional framework in particular is not conducive to developing export businesses, on account
of the following shortcomings: (e) an organizational gap due to lack or weakness of professional
organizations; (b) the complexity, lack of flexibility and multiplicity of procedures for registration of
exporters and completion of export activities; (c) the continued existence of arbitrary taxes with no
legal basis and levied in haphazard fashion, although some of these taxes have already been eliminated
(the 2% export tax and the packaging tax; the latter amounted from 3% to 20% depending on the
type of product exported); (d) the absence of an appropriate legal framework in certain areas (e.g. for
joint ventures, the absence of 'Groupement d'lnteret Economique"-G.l.E. which is particularly useful
in export markets), and/or the non-enforcement of existing regulations (e.g. the temporary import
system); (e) the existing bilateral trade agreements which often are imprecise and outdated, and serve



- 12 -
no purpose in opening up new export markets; and (f) an inefficient quality control. Concerning this
latter problem, the department in charge (the "Service du Conditionnement" at the Ministry of
Agriculture) has neither the facilities nor the procedural framework to undertake quality control.
Arbitrary interference of this service -- reminiscent of Sekou Toure's economic police corps -- is a
hindrance to private operators' business and does not lead to actual improvement in the quality of
exported products; poor quality in turn is causing a negative image for Guinean products on foreign
markets detrimental to the establishment of a steady flow of exports.
2.    Technical Constraints
3.10          Agricultural exports can regain momentum only if a number of technical constraints that
currently hamper export activities are removed. These constraints are related to the degradation of
the operational environment (i.e. infrastructure/service facilities that are taken for "granted" in other
countries) that has occurred during the First Republic. The main technical constraints to be addressed
by the project are listed below; they concern the steps required prior to international marketing:
agronomic research, production techniques, post-harvesting operations, processing and transport.
3.11          AQronomic research is still highly degraded, having suffered from complete lack of
external support during the Sekou Toure years. This problem is compounded by the fact that no data
is available concerning the new products required by European markets. As a result, the research
establishment cannot meet the needs of export producers -- relating to planting material, improved
techniques or appropriate cultivation methods -- even in the case of traditional crops !such as coffee
or mangoes. This reason alone explains the bulk of the technical problems encourinered for instance
by SAIG (recently created at Mamou for the production of concentrated juice, para 3.20) that stem
from the lack of reliable technical data on passion fruit cultivation under conditions prevailing in Guinea.
Efforts are being made to revamp agronomic research, inter alia under the IDA-funded Research and
Extension (PNRVA) project; but it is a long-term undertaking and substantive improvement will only
be obtained with a time lag. In the meantime, shortcuts should be found to reduce the lead time. The
thrust of the project research component would geared to this objective (paras 4.20 and 4.21).
3.12          Farm production. Pressure on fertile lands is undoubtedly increasing in areas that have
export potential (especially near Conakry) and land tenure needs to be given greater attention (this is
the rationale for the project Pilot Land Registration Scheme, under the proposed Bank Rural
Environment Protection project, para 3.24). Although this sets a limit to the potential for increase in
production through area expansion (notably the creation of new large production units), the area still
available and/or undercultivated remains substantial. Climatic conditions in certain areas favorable to
pineapple production (Kindia region) impose irrigation and lengthen the cultivation cycle. This negative
factor, however, can be substantially compensated by high yields, providing good management
techniques are utilized.
3.13          Although Guinean farmers have a good basic knowledge of fruit, vegetable and coffee
cultivation, as testified by results achieved in the past, current yields and product quality are extremely
low, due to the following: (a) extension services during the First Republic became totally inoperative
through lack of resources and expertise; (b) inputs- such as fertilizers and especially phyto-sanitary
products, are only used in minute quantities; and (c) maintenance of old glantations and establishment
of new ones have virtually ceased (particularly in the case of coffee and mangoes). The on-going
Research and Extension project, together with the measures taken to liberalize input distribution should
go a long way toward improving the situation. However, significant results can only be expected with
a time lag, given the present status of plantations which is highly degraded. Under the project,
therefore, solutions will be sought to reduce delays, particularly by providing specialized extension
services (paras 4.17 to 4.19), and by supporting private initiatives for the supply of inputs and services
to the agricultural export sector (Small and Medium Scale Enterprise component of the project, para
4.22).



- 13 -
3.14          Post-Harvestino/ProcessinafrTransport are yet other constraints, particularly for fresh
fruits. The main problems are: (a) the poor condition of feeder roads giving access to plantations: this
problem is exacerbated by the dispersion of production (for Instance, there are around 100,000 fruit
pioducers in Maritime Guinea who have micro plantations scattered over large areas); (b) lack of
organized post-harvestina/orocessina services (with adequate facilities for field transport,
regrouping/collecting centers, packaging, etc.). This results in poor quality products that can f'ardly
find outlets on the international markot. This holds true also for coffee which is still dried and
dehusked manually in a traditional fashion, and not properly sorted; it explains the fall in the price
obtained by Guinean robusta coffee on the international market; (c) cold storage. Forwardil.g fresh
produce through Conakry is an additional problem due to the lack of cold storage facilities between the
processing centers and the port/airport; and (d) international transgort. Air transport to Europe is
costly and irregular due to the small volumes being shipped. Given Guinea's geographic position.
transport in bulk by sea (refrigerated boats) remains the only solution to drastically cut costs; but this
requires shipments of critical mass at regular intervals, as vwas done for bananas in the late fifties. In
the meantime, refrigerated containers could be used as they require lower volumes and can be shipped
by regular boats. But the cost of using port facilities is high, due to high tariffs, excessive length of
required stay of boats, theft and other incidental costs. The Bank is addressing this problem as part
of the proposed Transport and Urban project (FY93L).
D.    Government Aaricultural Strateav
3.15          The Government's strategic objectives in the rural sector, as stated in the Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy (LPDA, October 1991), are to: (a) promote food security and reduce
food imports; (b) promote agricultural exports; (c) provide the essential support services to the rural
producers; and (d) ensure a rational management of natural resources. To reach these objectives, the
strategy adopted by the Government is to: (a) pursue the macroeconomic reforms agreed under the
SAL and sector adjustment programs to reinforce the market economy (para 2.04); (b) continue to
disengage the State from productive activities and services that can be taken over by the private
sector, and concomitzntly undertake an active promotion of private sector activities; (c) improve
business conditions to attract private investment, in particular in rural areas; (d) provide agricultural
services to the farming community, especially applied research, extension and planting material; te)
improve rural infrastructure to open up productive areas; and (f) build up local administrative capacity,
inter alia by encouraging the development of producer groups, cooperatives and informal credit
institutions, and by decentralizing MARA's services.
3.16          The Public Investment Program in support of the above strategy until recently was to
finance mostly area-based integrated development projects and crop-based ("fili6re") projects. These
projects had their own management structure, parallel to that of the Administration, and generally little
or no provision was made for sustaining their activities after project completion. The Government has
recognized this shortcoming, and is now designing agricultural support services projects with a national
perspective to ensure a cohesive approach to provision of services to farmers and their sustainability
in the longer term. National services are expected to consolidate and take over project structures
created with external assistance as part of area-based and/or 'filiere' type projects, once the donor
financing has come to a stop. At the same time, the Government is providing incentives and support
for private sector development, including transferring responsibility for public services to private
operators whenever they have sufficient capacity to take over.



- 14 -
E.    Exoort-Oriented Aaricultural Operations
1.    Public Proiects
3.17         The three large export-oriented projects of the Public Investment Program concern palm
oil/rubber, cotton and coffee respectively: (a) the Palm Oil and Rubber Proiect (SOGUIPAH) aims at
meeting the domestic demar,d for palm oil (10,000 tons to be produced on 2,500 ha) and developing
exports of rubber (17,000 tons to be produced on 8,000 ha) at an investment cost of about FF650
million over 1986-1995. The project is managed by SOCFINCO and should eventually be privatized;
(b) the Cotton Develo ment Proiect covers Upper Guinea and the Western part of Fouta Diallon. It was
launched in 1987 by the Compagnie Francaise des Textiles (CFDT) with CCCE financing at a cost of
FF 50 million. Whereas Guinea did not produce cotton before that date, the target at full development
of the CFDT project is 15,000 tons; and (c) the Coffee Recovery Proiect (RC2) financed by CCCE (FF
76 million over two phases) was launched in 1988 in the Forest Region, with the objective of: (i)
developing the capacity to produce improved planting material at village level (through village-run
nurseries); (b) providing extension si,pport to introduce improved production technologies; and (c)
assisting the development of producers' groups so that they gradually take charge of collection and
primary processing. The project also aims at promoting the emergence of professional organizations
in the coffee sub-sector.
3.18         The other projects in the PIP that involve exports comprise: (a) three pilot projects
concerning respectively smallholder pineapple production groups at Friguiagb6 (FF10 m, of which
French FAC FF1 m, and EEC FF8 m), smalliholder vegetable development at Dalaba (FAO FF3.5 m), and
farming intensification/diversification at Timbi Madina (FFZ, m, of which FAC FF3.6 m); (b) two projects
focussed on rural credit: the Credit Mutuel scheme (FF9.3 m, of which FAC FF3.6 m and Centre
International du Credit Mutuel FF5.2 m) and the Rural Credit project (FF8.6 m, of which CCCE FF5 m
and EEC FF1.5 m); (c) several area-based integrated rural development projects (DERIK/Kissidougou
financed by KfW/GTZ DM12 m, PAG/Guekedou financed by IDA/ADF/IFAD US$23 m), and PDR/Upper
and Maritime Guinea financed by EEC ECUS70 m); and (d} two nationa! projects that have actions in
the export producing areas (Research and Extension US$31 m of whi%n IDA US$15 m, and Rural
Infrastructure/PNIR US$92 m of which IDA US$40 in, USAID US$33 m and KfW US$7 m). At
present, the EEC is preparing a Fruit Promotion project (about ECUS10 m) that would include
production of planting material and support to quality control, as well -. a specialized line of credit;
CCCE plans to fund an extension to the Friguiagb6 project which would include technical assistance
for storage/shipping/marketing activities (about FF5 m); USAID would support a project focussed on
the promotion of traditional export products, such as palm products, cola nuts, honey, etc., and UNDP
would extend it's general operating assistance to the Chamber of Commerce under a new US$0.8
million project.
2.    Nucleus Estates
3.19         There are half a dozen major privately-run projects currently being implemented in the
agricultural sector (see next paragraph). These are generally of the nucleus estate-cum-outgrowers
type, with core plantations aiming at generating the critical mass of production and providing the basic
production support and processing/packaging/transport facilities. The estates are critical to the
agricultural sector in the short-to-medium run because they are the only operators that can expand
production quickly enough to benefit from economies of scale and give the required momentum to the
sector. But the majority have problems at present, mainly on account of the difficult environment in
which they operate. They are also a few small projects (Small and Medium Enterprise-SME type) in
certain production niches that have interesting potential (organic food, dried fruits, jam, etc.). The
creation of new SMEs of this type should develop quickly if the incentives framework is right.



- 15 -
3.20         The main large private projects -- with which the project would contract (para 4.19) -
- are the following (see Annex 1): (a) GuinAe-Fleurs, a private 40% Guinean and 60% French
(GREGORI) joint-venture established at Linsan (Mamou prefecture, 230 km from Conakry) in August
1987 which pioneered the exportation of cut flowers (chrysanthemum) and vegetables for the
European market; this firm is now being liquidated following the withdrawal of GREGORI; (b) Societe
Agro-Industrielle de Guinie (SAIG), created in Mamou in 1988, as a mixed capital company (Guinean
Government and majority participation of private partners, SIAS being the largest) to produce fruit juice
and concentrate (mainly passion fruit and mdngo) for the export market, with processing capacity of
30,000 tons of fresh fruit equivalent; SAIG has faced difficulty following the bankruptcy of SIAS; it
has obtained financial support for an emergency recovery program; (c) Societe des Plantes Aromatiaues
de Guinee (SOPAG) in Labe is a former State factory for the production of essential oils for perfumes
that was taken over in 1987 by the group TECOTEX-Cavallet; (d) Societe Libvo-Guineenne de
D6veloooement Aaro-lndustriel (SALGUIDIA) is a parastatal whose capital is shared equally by the
Guinean and Libyan governments. The company has an estate of about 2,000 ha of prime land (900
ha irrigated) in one of the regions best suited for pineapple production and a processing unit of 12,000
tons of capacity; (e) SOBRAGUI-Aariculture, a company of the Belgian group UNIBRA (that has majority
in the SOBRAGUI brewery in Conakry) operating on 300 ha rented SALGUIDIA mostly for the
production of pineapple (150 ha), passion fruit (50 ha) and papaya-solo (40 ha); and (f) Aarafruits.
operating on the government estate of Daboya (total area of 400 ha) to produce pineapples for export
with production targets of 17,000 tons for 1995, with in addition 3,000 tons of mangoes to be
collected amongst the outgrowers; IFC is to contribute to the financing of this program.
F.    IDA Aaricultural Sector Strateav and Lendina Program
3.21         At the macro-policy level, IDA advocates continued support to the Government's efforts
to create a functioning market-oriented economy in the agricultural sector, to allow potential investors
to take advantage of investment opportunities in agriculture, concerning in particular agricultural
exports and agri-business activities for which Guinea has comparative advantage. IDA therefore
advocates a more aggressive policy of private sector promotion which entails: (a)
building/strengthening private sector institutions concurrently to disengaging/streamlining the
Administration; (b) effective application -rather than mere enactment-- of measures, demanding non-
interference by the Government when the legislation remains unclear or incomplete; and (c) coaching
the private sector and acting as a catalyst to restore confidence amongst private investors. In parallel,
IDA continues to emphasize the necessity to streamline government support servic3s, with focus on
administrative and financial management of the line ministries to remedy the mismanagement of
disbursements, procurement and personnel matters. IDA also places great importance on natural
resource management, the immediate task being to complete the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) and help organize a subsequent donor conference.
3.22         In support of the above sectoral strategy, IDA advocates a lending program for Guinea's
agricultural sector, with a three-pronged orientation: (a) strenathenina basic suooort services (not only
technical services such as research, extension, seed production, rural infrastructure, etc., but also
administrative and financial services); this would be accompanied by disengagement of the
Administration whenever the private sector can take over; (b) sugoortina Drivate sector develooment
in specific areas where there are business opportunities (agricultural exports, agri-business, etc.). This
includes promoting professional organizations (including cooperatives and production groups) that
would be established without the Administration's involvement. As a corollary to (a) above, it also
involves actively promoting private sector take-over of activities presently performed by the
Administration, in particular as part of the privatization of the remaining parastatals (SALGUIDIA in
particular); and (c) oreservina the environment and managina natural resources (especially fisheries and
forests).
3.23         The above program is geared to the long-term, i.e. IDA has a commitment to
undertaking repeat operations over 10-15 years. This holds true for technical services (research and



- 16 -
extension), but, more importantly, for private sector promotion. The legacy of 26 years of Sekou
Tour6's socialist regime cannot be obliterated in the life span of a project and more lead time is
required to revive commercial agriculture. IDA will continue implementing 'structuring' projects,
national in scope and designed to serve as framework for investment operations in given sub-sectors.
Although these projects are not policy operations, they will aim at supporting sector-wide strategies
and will be used as vehicles to induce the required policy changes.
3.24         IDA now supports national projects in all major sub-sectors of agriculture and IDA
lending program is being brought to bear on the most important facets of agricultural development in
Guinea. These projects are: (a) the Livestock Sector Restructuring Project (PRSE, FY86, Cr. 1725-GUI,
US$9.8 m)); (b) the National Seeds Project (PSN, FY88, Cr.1864-GUI, US$9 m); (c) the National
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (FY89, Cr. 1955-GUI, US$18.4 m); this project includes
three different sub-projects with which the proposed project will contract: {i) the extension sub-project
(under the National Extension Project-PNVA), (ii) the research sub-project (under the National Institute
of Agronomic Research-IRAG), and (iii) the cooperatives sub-project (under the National Cooperatives
Service-SENATEC and the Cooperatives Development Project-PDMCG); (d) the Fisheries and Forestry
Resource Management Project (FY90, Cr. 2068-GUI, US$8 m); and (e) the National Rural Infrastructure
Project (PNIR, FY90, Cr. 2106-GUI, US$40 m). IDA has in its pipeline, in addition to the proposed
project, three other projects which should complete the set-up: (a) a rural environment protection
project (FY93S); (b) an agricultural services project (FY94L); and (c) a rural credit and cooperatives
development project (FY95L). The proposed agricultural services project would be the vehicle for
second generation assistance in extension and research, with a focus on privatization and
administrative/financial management of government services.
G.    Lessons Learnt from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
3.25         T   3ank/IDA export crop projects have generally concerned specific crop(s), with
emphasis on production arrangements. Only few have primarily focussed or, marketing aspects and
fewer have addressed the operational environment of the agricultural export sector as a whole. This
has accounted for a number of the project failures that have been encountered, especially in countries
like Guinea where the enabling environment and the operational context -- taken for granted in some
other countries -- just did not exist. A case in point is the Guinea Daboya Flantation Project (FY74)
designed to produce pineapple on a nucleus estate, which failed pitifully because down-stream
activities (marketing in particular) were handled by a parastatal that had neither the procedural
framework nor the capacity to operate effectively. Other failures have been explained by poor
operational management, especially where large inefficient parastatals were involved (e.g. HEVECAM
and SODECAO projects in Cameroon). The project will avoid the above dangers by focussing on
private operators, addressing down-stream activities as well as production, and taking a comprehensive
view at the export crop sector.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Proiect Objectives, Strateav. Summary Description and Rationale
4.01         Proiect Obiectives. The project's overall objective is to strengthen the incentives
framework and remove the obstacles to the supply response in the agricultural export sector. It will,
in a sector that offers promising investment opportunities, assist in the application of policy measures
designed to create an enabling environment for private sector activities, in particular the measures
supported under the IDA-funded Private Sector Promotion Project (PSPP). The Government strategy
for agricultural exports will be the agreed framework for project implementation. This strategy is
geared to the long term, and the project will support its first phase. The strategy is defined in the
Letter of Agricultural Export Policy Development (LPDEA) which the Government has established as



- 17-
part of project preparation (Annex 4) and which was agreed at negotiations (para 7.01 (a)). The
LPDEA includes a comprehensive set of measures addressing the obstacles to export promotion, those
Inter alia falling under the generic heading of "business climate". Application of the measures
prescribed in the LPDEA will be monitored by the Project Manager (para 4.62). An assessment as to
whether these measures are being implemented satisfactorily or not will be made at the project's Mid-
Term Review, with the objective of requesting corrective measures if required (para 4.59).
4.02          Proiect Strateov. The project will focus on agricultural exports, as agriculture is the
only sector of the economy that has potential to generate new   ports in the medium term. The
project overall strategy will be to offer broad support to the private sector across export industries, and
to improve the operational environment in which productive investments are made to make up for
externalities that are yet to exist in Guinea. The project's main thrusts will be to: (a) act as a catalyst
to cause authorities to continue revamping the regulatory framework -- and most of all devise
appropria.e application procedures -- to enhance incentives to export; (b) support professional
organizations to strengthen the bargaining power of private operators vis-a-vis the Administration end
enhance their business capabilities; (c) assist private Guinean operators to establish partnerships with
external investors to secure technical expertise, market outlets and funding for their export businesses;
and (d) support as a priority nucleus estates with outgrowers, so that the estates can quickly generate
the critical mass of exports needed to take advantage of economies of scale and pass on the services
and technology of core plantations to surrounding smallholders. This latter aspect will ensure that the
development of exports will not be skewed toward large foreign-assisted farmers but will also benefit
the smaliholders.
4.03          The project main strategic orientations, corresponding to the LPDEA orientations, are
the following: (a) at the institution level: to support the professional organizations (including the
Chamber of Commerce for its export-related activities), as key vehicles for institutional development
in the private seeror; (b) at the aroduction level: to focus efforts on fresh pineapple and mangoes, as
they are the only .roducts than can be relied upon to generate the critical mass needed to give impetus
to the export sector; the project will also concern as a second priority the industrial production of fruit
pulp (mango and passion fruit) and fruit juice, to take advantage of side products that cannot be
exported fresh; (c) at the commercial level: to export products of high quality, mostly to the West-
European market; the project will also encourage some diversification to take advantage of (i) profitable
commercial niches for certain products (e.g. ginger, cherry tomatoes, cut flowers, chilies, essences
of perfume, etc.) whose market is small, but lucrative and fast-expanding, (ii) emerging new markets
(sub-regional markets; East-European, CIS and Middle-Eastern countries, etc.) for lower quality
products, and (iii) off-season markets (e.g. quality vegetables during the winter); (d) at the
manaaement level to target the smallholders and the Small/Medium Enterprises (SMEs) which are
considered the agents for the long-term development of the sector; in the short-to-medium term,
support will be given as a priority to the nucleus estates which are better equipped to generate the
critical mass of production and can be relied upon to provide extension to surrounding outgrowers; and
(e) at the aeneral operational level, to provide the required support services still to be established in
Guinea (research, extension, credit, access roads, etc.) which eventually will become the responsibility
of the beneficiaries.
4.04          Proiect Summary Description. In support of the above strategy, the project will include
the following components: (a) institution buildina, by strengthening professional organizations dealing
with the export sector; (b) support to export production, by providing specialized technical services
(research, extension, management assistance, etc.) to producers (small and large, including
cooperatives); this component will include access roads to open up producing areas; (c) special
nroarams (Credit Mutuel and Private Investment Fund) addressing financial constraints to agricultural
exports; and (d) groiect manaaement and monitorina of sector activity. by funding a project
management contract with a private consultant firm (the "Project Manager"); the latter will have
complete delegation of authority ("mattrise d'ouvrage ddldgude") up to US$150,000 for expenditures



- 18 -
financed by the IDA Credit and GF50 million for expenditures financed by local counterpart funds. The
detailed features of these components are in section B below.
4.05          The project will be implemented in close liaison with the proposed EEC-funded Fruit
Promotion Project (Lome IV). The latter will include a specialized line of credit and specific production-
oriented components, such as quality control and production of planting material (para 3.18). The
project's institutional, training and management components will have national scope and encompass
all agricultural export industries, with the cxception of rubber, palm oil and cotton which are being
developed under specialized "filire" projects. The project investment support components will cover,
as core zone of intervention, the former "banana triangle' prefectures in 4varitime Guinea and the
foothills of Fouta Djallon (Forecariah, Coyah, Dubreka, Kindia, and Mamou) mainly for fruits, and the
prefecture of Dalaba in the Fouta Djallon, mainly for vegetables.
4.06          Rationale for IDA Involvement. As part of the SAL program and under the Private
Sector Promotion Program (PSPP), IDA is supporting broad economic reforms that have generated
significant growth qince 1986, mainly as a result of private supply response in trade, utilities and
services. The project will be a necessary complement to this program as a means to elicit further
private supply response in agriculture, thereby helping sustain growth in the medium term. The project
will also complement efforts undertaken under the SAL to diversify sources of foreign exchange. The
project will be part of IDA's strategy to take a comprehensive view at agricultural development, by
assisting the Government in implementing the sector-wide policy changes and investments required
to further strengthen the incentives framework for productive activities.
B.    Detailed Features
1.    Institution Develooment
4.07          One of the major thrusts of the project is to promote the development of privately-
controlled professional institutions in the agricultural export sector, so that the private sector can
effectively: (a) defend its interests vis-a-vis the Government; (b) build up its technical capability; and
(c) take over economic responsibilities that thus far have been assumed by the Government. As part
of the overall objective to establish a functioning market economy, the project will aim to eliminate
interference in private activities by government services and concomitantly empower private sector
institutions. Under the institution strengthening component, support will be extended to privately-
cpntrolled institutions, including the Chamber of Commerce (paras 4.10 to 4.12) and the professional
organizations involved in agricultural exports (para 4.13). This support will be provided by the Project
Manager, in part with assistance of the EEC-affiliated Committee for Liaison with African, Caribbean
and Pqcific Countries (COLEACP), and through the Chamber of Commerce and the lnterpro'.sional
Liaison Committee for Fruits and Vegetables (CLIFEL).
(a)    Institution SuDDort by the Proiect Manaaer
4.08          The institution support provided by the Project Manager (para 4.62) is envisioned as
the major vehicle to carry out the task of institution strengthening. It is expected, in particular: (i) to
support existing professional organizations (including the Chamber of Commerce for its export-related
activities) and (ii) to help establish the partnership arrangements between private Guinean nationals
and foreign investors that are required to revive the agricultural export sector. To achieve the above
objective, the project will provide funding for: (i) three person-years of resident technical assistance
(one economist/institution specialist) for three years, see Terms of Reference in Annex 5); (ii)
specialized short-term consultancies, in such fields as pricing and costing, import/export regulations,
marketing, etc.; (iii) backstopping in Europe to transmit relevant market information and assist in
commercial operations; (iv) a substantial training program for private sector operators; and (v) support
to partnership establishment.



19 -
4.09          The above assistance will be scught from two sources: (a) the Liaison Committee
between Europe and African/Caribbean/Pacific countries. COLEACP is an interprofessional institution,
with legal statutes of International Association, created under the auspices of the EEC in 1977 and
specialized in the promotion of tropical fruits, off-season vegetables, flowers, ornamental plants and
spices. It will in charge of all institution support activities related tc the fruit and vegetable "fili4re";
and (b) the project management contract (paras 4.37 and 4.62), through which, in particular the
resident technical assistant and assistance to partnership establishment will be provided.
(b)    Chamber of Commerce (CCIAG)
4.10          The Guinean Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture of Guinea (CCIAG, see
Annex 2) is the only broad-based institution currently representing the private sector. It appears suited
to potentially serving the latter providing it is able to undergo the required reforms. Based on the
conclusions of the financial and technical audits funded by the PPF, the CCIAG should be restructured,
including the creation of an Export Promotion Division. Under the proposed project it will receive
support to strengthen its activities in the export sector. As part of a parallel UNOP project it will
receive broader support to develop its overall operating capacity (para 3.18).
4.11          The project will fund logistical support, training activities and incremental operating
expenditures, with view to assisting tha Chamber of Commerce in the establishment and initial
operation of the Export Promotion Division and a "one-stop window' for export formalities. The
project's funding of incremental operating costs will be done on a declining basis as CCIAG's capacity
to generate its own revenues increase. These revenues will initially come mostly from the proceeds
of a parafiscal tax ("centimes additionnels"); they should come increasingly also from members'
subscriptions and sale of specialized services.
4.12          At negotiations, assurances were obtained that CCIAG be restructured in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para 7.01 (b)). A condition of disbursement against the component is (i) issuance
of the decree establishing the new statutes of CCIAG, (ii) election of the President by the members of
the Consular Assembly, (iii) recruitment of the Secretary General by the Executive Committee, through
competitive selection, (iv) application of the labor law to all CCIAG's staff, and (v) preparation of a
workable financial restructuring program, including provision for the gradual repayment of CCIAG's
debts (para 7.03 (a)).
(c)    Professional Oroanizations
4.13          Professional organizations to be supported under the project deal with entire export
chains ("filiAres") covered by the project, such as coffee, fruits and vegetables, or with specific
'horizontal' activities in support of exports, such as transport and forwarding activities (Annex 3). The
project's support under this component would aim both at strengthening existing professional
organizations - most of which have been created only recently -- and assisting the creation of new
ones. This component would be executed by the Interprofessional Liaison Committee for Fruits and
Vegetables (CLIFEL), in close liaison with the Chamber of Commerce that has mandate to promote
private sector institutions. Support would entail (i) providing specialized short-term consultancies to
help organize the main professional organizations; (ii) making basic operating equipment (including
communication equipment) available to CLIFEL, and (iii) funding the latter's incremental operating costs
on a declining basis.
2.     Sunoort to Production
4.14          At the production level, the project's primary objective is to assist private operators to
circumvent the technical and management constraints to running viable export-oriented agri-
businesses, so that a critical mass of products can be made available quickly for export. The project
will not fund the core productive investments which are the responsibility of private investors. It will,



-20 -
however, finance peripheral operations required to support core investments, including assistance to
smaliholders in the case of nucleus estate-cum-outgrowers projects. To help remove some of the major
technical constraints, support productive investments and elicit the critical mass of exports, the project
will provide specialized extension/research services, management assistance to producers (including
cooperatives) and access roads.
(a)    Soecialized Extension
4.15          Independent Smaliholders. Although in the project zone there is a tradition of export
crop cultivation (this area at Independence produced large quantities of export products, in particular
bananas, para 3.04) smallholders' production a.id post-harvest practices are now outdated and
unsuited to producing for the export market. Specialized management and technical support is
therefore needed to help farmers meet export production standards. This extension support will be
provided through the IDA-financed National Extension Project (PNVA) (para 3.24). As part of PNVA,
two 'horticultural" subject matter specialists with expertise in fruits and vegetables will be posted in
each of the six prefectures covered by the project. They will be supervised by a coordinator posted
at the PNVA headquarters in Conakry. The horticultural subject matter specialists will work closely
with the other subject matter specialists, to ensure that horticultural activities are fully integrated in
the extension program. They will train end supervise the PNVA extension agents in the area where
they work.
4.16          The above specialized extension program will be carried out through annual contractual
arrangements with PNVA. These contractual arrangements will cover all incremental expenditures
related to the program, i.e. (i) specialized short-term consultancies (four staff-weeks annually for the
project duration) to assist in organizing the annual work program and training the subject matter
specialists, (ii) the salaries of the subject matter specialists and the coordinator, (iii) training costs,
including local and overseas training seminars/workshops for subject matter specialists and extension
agents, (iv) one vehicle, motorcycles and some office equipment/furniture for the coordinator and the
subject matter specialists, and (v) incremental operating costs incurred by PNBVA. The draft general
five-year convention ("convention cadre") between the project and PNVA was agreed at negotiations.
4.17          Outorowers. The revival of Guinean exports is primarily constrained by the present lack
of a critical mass of exportable products, say 300 tons per week. This prevents the port of Conakry
from being serviced regularly by low-cost refrigerated boats specialized in the transport of fresh fruits
and vegetables, and greatly increases transport costs to Europe. Until development eventually trickles
down to all producers in the export sectcr, the bulk of this critical mass of production in the short-to-
medium run is likely to be provided by a handful of large operators. Another constraint is the present
lack of expertise of small producers to produce and evacuate their production efficiently and in a timely
manner. To alleviate the above constraints, the project will use the private nucleus estates to
undertake extension activities in the vicinity of their plantations, so that the technical expertise and
economies of scale of the estates can be passed on to the outgrowers. Together with the assistance
provided to producers through PNVA (para 4.15) and PDMCG (para 4.24), this will contribute to
generating the required critical mass of production, and will prevent the development of the agricultural
export sector from being skewed in favor of large planters.
4.18          There are currently half a dozen or so large plantations with a production nucleus of
between 100 to 500 ha (either private or privately-controlled with some government participation, and
one parastatal, Annex 1) that incorporate, or have the potential to incorporate, areas of similar siza
under outgrowers at the periphery of core plantations. The project will use these nucleus estates, and
any other private organization having the required capacity (including smaller estates, exporters) to
provide customized extension support to surrounding outgrowers or contract farmers. This extension
support will be provided under services contracts that will encompass: (i) delivery of extension advice
to the outgrowers, and (ii) assistance in organizing the logistics of outgrower production (including
supply of inputs, provision of mechanized services, etc.). These activities will be undertaken by the



- 21 -
staff of the estate, and supervised by the estate's management. These staff will consist of a handful
of technicians and extensionists (typically half a dozen per nucleus estate) with status of private
employees of the estate being contracted. Close liaison will be maintained with the PNVA and PDMCG
projects in establishing their work program, so that there be no duplication of activities. In fact, the
risk that such duplication may arise is minimal, as the areas concerned will be well delineated; also,
the approach to extension will be quite different from that of the PNVA project, with focus on
management/marketing aspects as much as production technology, and low farmer-to-technician ratio.
4.19         The above contracts will be established individually with each nucleus estate/services
company. They will be customized to respond to the specific circumstances surrounding outgrower
production in given areas where extension is to be provided. They will typically provide for technical
assistance in varying amounts (a few months every year) and will cover the cost of incremental costs
over a maximum of three years in each case, with the objective that the private firms being contracted
take over at the end of such a period. Execution of these contracts will be based on detailed annual
work plans to be agreed between the project and the recipient of the contract. In all cases, the
contract payment will be contingent on meeting quantitative targets agreed at contract signature. The
draft generic contract ('contrat cadre") was agreed at negotiations, and an assurance was obtained
that an estimated amount of US$2.5 million from the proceeds of the IDA Credit will be earmarked for
extension activities to outgrowers undertaken as part of the above services contracts (para 7.01 (c)).
(b)    Adantive Research
4.20         The objectives of the adaptive research program to be funded under the project will be
to rapidly find practical solutions to the most urgent technical problems that plague export production
at present (such as the prevalence of cryptogamic diseases and the lack of improved planting material)
and to develop low-cost appropriate agro-processing technologies. These objectives will be achieved
by adapting to conditions prevailing in Guinea relevant findings obtained in other countries with similar
agro-climatic conditions. The component will be contracted out to the National Agronomic Research
Institute (IRAG). Annual research programs will be established in close liaison with professional
organizations and, before these organizations are fully developed, with key operators in the export
sector, with the objective that eventually these organizations bear related costs and negotiate directly
with IRAG. At the beginning of the project period, the trials will be implemented as a priority within
the nucleus estates and/or outgrower plantations.
4.21         To execute the component, the project will provide through a convention with IRAG:
(i) six person-years of resident technical assistance: one expatriate scientist specialized in fruit
production financed by the French FAC and one expatriate technician specialized in the implementation
of agronomic trials financed by IDA (each for three years, see Terms of Reference in Annex 5X (ii)
three person-months of specialized technical consultancies (two annually in the fields of soil science,
entomology and phytopathology, and one for agro-processing), and (iii) specialized services (e.g.
laboratory tests). The project will also fund the renovation of 280 m2 of laboratory and office space,
two vehicles, technical equipment, training, and the incremental operating costs of IRAG. To procure
the technical assistance and the specialized services, IRAG will have to establish contractual
arrangements with one or several foreign research institutions; it will also have to enter into contracts
with a few reliable private large producers and cooperatives, with view to conducting the agronomic
trials under real conditions. The general convention ('convention cadre') for the execution of the
program to be established between IRAG and the project has been agreed at negotiations.
(c)    Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
4.22         The few SMEs that exist at present in the horticultural sector are small production units
that have generally been established on former banana plantations with the help from technical staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture. These staff are technically equipped to handle agricultural operations,
but they lack the required management/marketing expertise and the investment funds. Therefore,



- 22 -
production SMEs as a rule face financial difficulties, especially when they initiate new lines of
activities. A few small agro-industrial units also exist for primary processing of horticultural products
(drying of fruits/chili, manufacturing of jam, etc.), and there are opportunities for the creation of
companies that would provide services to producers in the export sector, e.g. management/marketing
advice, supply of inputs (planting material, small equipment, fertilizer), processing/storage/transport,
etc. Under the project, these SMEs will receive advisory assistance with a focus on management and
marketing activities. The component will be executed by the Project Manager. To this end, the Unit
will be staffed by a high caliber Guinean technician and an expatriate agronomist with the required
management expertise (the latter for three years, see Terms of Reference in Annex 5). In addition,
specialized short term consultancies will be provided to address specific problems that SMEs might
encounter.
4.23         In addition, SMEs -- as well as producer group and cooperatives -- will receive further
project support for provision of technical assistance (both expatriate and local) and study/prosection
trips abroad to help them develop projects of a pilot nature designed to initiate new lines of activities
and/or test new practices/methods that have broader interest for operators in the agricultural export
sector. The criteria to be applied for the granting of the above support will be sufficiently precise to
allow for a clear and transparent decision-making process. But minimum red tape will be involved both
in evaluating the proposals and in granting the funds once proposals are approved. An envelope of
US$250,000 from the proceeds of the IDA credit will be earmarked for the above purpose, and will
be released in yearly tranches of US$50,000. This envelope will be managed by the Project Manager
(para 4.37). The beneficiaries are be expected to provide a contribution equal to subsistence and local
hotel/travel costs. The project contribution will not exceed US$10,000 for each proposal. This
assistance will substantially alleviate the absence of ready funding for specialized technical support,
thereby encouraging private investment in productive activities of a novel nature. The criteria to be
used in reaching decisions to allocate the funds have been agreed at negotiations.
(d)    Producer Groups and Cooperatives
4.24         The component aims at improving private sector supply response in the agricultural
export sector through the development of producer group and cooperative-based enterprises. These
latter will be a response to market conditions that cannot be addressed by individually-owned
enterprises, due, inter alia, to a limited resource base, restricted individual economic/business influence
and scale of the enterprise. The cooperatives are considered private entities -- like any other private
sector operators -- which should be independent from the Administration and free of government
interference. They should play an important role, in particular for processing and marketing of
horticultural products, as they did at Independence when they accounted for the bulk of Guinea's
agricultural exports. The component will be implemented mainly through the Cooperative Development
Project (PDMCG), in close liaison with the National Extension Project (PNVA) and the SME component.
A small sub-component will also be entrusted to the National Cooperatives Service (SENATEC). The
PDMCG has national scope and statutes of "Projet Publicu (a financially and administratively
autonomous entity, created for a fixed duration, i.e. up to December 31, 1994). PDMCG is a pilot
project that has been established as part of the Cooperatives component of the IDA-financed Research
and Extension Project (Cr. 1955-GUI). SENATEC is the service at the National Directorate of
Decentralization (DND) that addresses the policy issues and the corresponding application of policy
measures related to cooperative development; it is also in charge of statistics and records concerning
cooperatives (para 2.23).
4.25         The execution of the component will be demand driven. The rationale is that the
development of producer groups and cooperatives can only be achieved from the grassroots up, by
supporting the emergence of commLi.ity-type associations. The project will foster this process by
addressing some of the most pressing constraints to the development of these entities, including
absence of managerial/financial skills and lack of access to improved/appropriate technology. To this
end, the proposed project will provide the additional financing required for PDMCG to develop its



- 23 -
activities in the project zone. It will fund in particular the PDMCG's installation in Kindia, and the
deployment and operation of its staff in the project zone. The project will also provide limited support
to SENATEC so that it continue to follow up the development of the cooperative legislation and to
survey the producer groups and cooperatives in the export sector. The component will be implemented
on a pilot basis for three years, under the tutelage of the National Directorate of Decentralization. The
objective is that the core batch of producer groups and cooperatives assisted under the component
serve as focal point for developing the associative movement on a larger scale under the proposed IDA
Rural Credit and Cooperatives Project (FY95L) (para 3.24).
4.26         The following items will be funded as part of the component: (a) one resident technical
assistant for three years (see terms of reference in Annex 5): this expert will be based in Kindia and
will assist the PDMCG's Director in daily management of the project field activities with a focus on
financial/administrative management and marketing; he will be a staff of the Friedreich Ebert
Foundation, an NGO that has done excellent work in an advisory capacity with the Government in
recent years; as part of his activities he will have to identify and refer to the Project Manager those
producer groups and cooperatives which can qualify for resources earmarked for pilot activities (para
4.23); (b) sixteen person-weeks of short-term consultancies to provide specialized support to SENATEC
for data collection and development of the legal framework; (c) incremental investments for the
installation and operation of PDMCG and SENATEC (several vehicles, basic equipment and furniture);
(d) training, mostly for field staff; (e) incremental operating expenditures of PDMCG and SENATEC,
including the salaries of PDMCG staff who will not be on the payroll of the Administration.
(e)    Access Roads
4.27         One key constraint to developing agricultural exports is the lack of rural roads that will
open up producing areas and permit to evacuate production efficiently. The IDA-financed National
Rural Infrastructure Project (PNIR) has a program of road rehabilitation in several of the prefectures
covered by the project. The bulk of these roads, however, are secondary roads linking prefectures
between themselves and/or 'prefectures to sub-prefectures, and only a minute fraction concern tertiary
tracks destined to provide access to producing areas. The project will finance such access roads (i.e.
roads of Bf and C standard following the PNIR classification), with the objective of making these roads
"passable" throughout the year and ensuring their adequate maintenance thereafter. Approximately
550 km of such roads will be financed in the project zone. Implementation of this component will be
entrusted to the PNIR project. Road works will be contracted out to small and medium scale
enterprises that are being promoted under that project. Technical supervision will be the responsibility
of the Rural Engineering Directorate (Ministry of Agriculture) which is the executing agency for the
PNIR.
4.28         A central principle underpinning the implementation of the access roads component is
that beneficiaries would participate, financially or in kind, to the execution of the road works. The
rationale is that, in this manner, they would develop a feeling of ownership, and therefore accept
responsibility to properly maintain the roads to retain the investment fully productive. The actual
participation of the beneficiaries will be a prerequisite for the rehabilitation of roads under the
component. In fact, the more the beneficiaries will participate, the more they will become eligible for
counterpart funding by the project, within budgetary limit. Based on the above principle and following
the experience gained under the PNIR, the participation of the beneficiaries was set at a minimum of
15%. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations (7.01 (d)).
3.    Soecial Proorams
4.29         To alleviate two other key constraints to agricultural exports, i.e. lack of access to
credit and insufficient investment funds, the project will fund two special programs: (i) expansion of
the Credit Mutuel system, and (ii) support to the creation of a Private Investment Fund scheme. These
programs are described in the subsequent paragraphs.



- 24 -
(a)    Mutual CrCdit
4.30          Insufficient credit is currently a constraint to increasing export-oriented agricultural
production in Guinea. The existing financial markets both formal and informal are not adapted to
service small farmers needs for input purchases and crop marketing. High transaction costs and the
absence of guarantees against commercial risks virtually eliminates the formal financial intermediaries,
and high interest rates in the informal sector loans are not attractive for commercial farmers. Crddit
Unions present a viable alternative source for the cash crop farmers. After two decades of progressive
development in Africa, Credit Unions have proved their ability to maintain their credibility, particularly
during the recent financial instability in Africa. The main characteristics of Credit Unions are their
ability to self-finance their grassroots operations, which are privately owned and managed. An
objective of the project will therefore be to promote a type of Credit Union organization already
working in Guinea, to provide credit to export producing farmers. At present, Credi; Mutuel is the only
organization that meets these conditions. An objective of the project therefore will be to assist Credit
Mutuel to expand its operations in export producing areas. The project's support will be for three
years, as it is envisaged that the proposed IDA-financed Rural Credit and Cooperatives Project (FY95L)
will provide relay financing thereafter.
4.31          The project will provide support to the establishment of the CrEdit Mutuel system in
the prefectures of Mamou and Kindia that have substantial export potential and are not yet served by
Credit Mutuel. The project will provide the logistical support, staff training and management support
for the creation and initial operation of these new branches (in Kindia in conjunction with the proposed
EEC-funded Fruit Export Promotion project), as part of a management contract with Credit Mutuel.
Specific items to be financed are (i) one resident technical assistant for three years, (ii) costs related
to the training of local staff both locally and overseas, and (iii) sharing of operating costs. The draft
management contract with Credit Mutuel was reviewed at negotiations and an assurance was obtained
that it be funded from tha proceeds of the IDA Credit (para 7.01 (c)).
(b)    Private Investment Fund
4.32          To help meet the large financial needs required for a resurgence of agro-export
industries, one of the objectives of the project will be to help direct savings to private productive
investments by facilitating the intermediation of equity funding. This will be done through assistance
in the creation of a Private Investment Fund scheme.
4.33          The scheme will aim at stimulating the financing of high return productive investments
through: (i) the creation of an initial closed-end private investment fund (under the legal entity referred
to below as Investment Fund) with a target capitalization of US$5 million by PY3 by private Guinean
and foreign shareholders, possibly including private sector-oriented multilateral or bilateral financial
institutions; to that effect, IDA has been in close contact with the Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF)
administered by IFC; the investment fund may also be funded with resources from debt-equity swap
operations; and {ii) the creation of a separate Fund Manaaement Comoanv. whose majority shareholder
will be an international private financial institution or investment bank (the Fund Promoter) with ex-
perie,lce in developing countries. The management and operations of the Investment Fund will be left
entirely to the private sector. The role of the Fund Management Company will be to mobilize and
invest the capital of the shareholders of the Investment Fund, manage and ultimately liquidate the
resulting investment portfolio in order to realize capital gains, provide financial services to project
investors, and increase the amount of capital under management through the creation of new private
investment funds. It is expected that the scheme will directly support a number of the highest quality
private investment projects under development, notably in export-oriented and/or high value added
projects (see Annex 6, Table 1). Assuming that the initial phase of the first 3-4 years is successful,
the Fund Management Company would expand the scheme by the end of the five-year period of the
project by attracting and mobilizing additional resources.



- 25 -
4.34         The Investment Fund scheme will be established through a two-stage process,
following the selection through competitive bidding of an international financial institution (the Fund
Promoter) interested in sponsoring the operation in Guinea (Annex 6 Chart 1). As part of the first
phase (8-10 months following the selection of the Fund Promoter), the Government will request the
Fund Promoter to complete a feasibility study, including a series of essential steps towards the formal
establishment of the scheme (e.g. the preparation of a prospectus for distribution to potential investors
and consultation with the Government on the final texts of the tax regime and other regulating
conditions that must be in place). The feasibility study will be reviewed by the Government and IDA,
with the view to deciding whether or not to go ahead with implementation of the scheme as part of
phase two of the scheme. At that stage, the Fund Management Company will be legally created, with
the Fund Promoter as its majority shareholder; and the Fund Management Company will enter into a
five-vear manaaement contract with the Fund Promoter. Under this contract, the Fund Promoter will
provide a resident director and home office backstopping for the Fund Management Company. The
latter will immediately proceed with the solicitation of subscriptions to the capital of the Investment
Fund Company and the execution of a long-term management contract between the Fund Management
Company and the Investment Fund. The five-year contract will be subject to a mid-term review
following eighteen months of start-up. The resulting decisions will be taken as part of the Mid-Term
Review for the entire project which will take place approximately six months thereafter (para 4.59).
If the mid-term review of the component determines that performance criteria have not been met and
that the component is not viable, the Government may opt to cancel the five-year loan agreement in
consultation with IDA.
4.35         The project will assist in establishing the above scheme by financing (i) the feasibility
study, {ii) part of the operating expenditures of the Fund Management Company under the five-year
managament contract, since the relatively small size of the initial Investment Fund will not generate
sufficient revenues for the Fund Management Company in the form of management fees and
commissions on dividends and capital gains to cover all operating costs, although these costs will be
kept to a minimum (e.g. the Fund Management Company will be staffed by only one executive, an
investment banker; see estimated operating deficit of the Fund Management Company in Annex 6
Table 2), and {iii) consulting services to assist the Government in the monitoring of the scheme,
especially the performance of the Fund Management Company. The funding under (ii) above will be
provided through onlending of part of the proceeds of the IDA Credit (maximum of US$1.6 million)
under a subsidiary loan agreement with the Fund Management Company. The terms and conditions
(including the interest rate and foreign exchange risk) of the subsidiary loan agreement will need to be
satisfactory to IDA. The signature of this agreement will be a condition of disbursement against this
component (para 7.03 (b)).
4.36         The above type of private investment fund scheme is yet to exist in Guinea and it will
fill a gap in the institutional framework for financial activities in the country. IDA's assistance, as
asponsor and catalyst' of the scheme, is vital given the risks and the uncertainty that prevail in Guinea.
This assistance is justified in view of the large retums expected to accrue to the national economy as
part of the private projects to be financed under the scheme, including increase in employment, foreign
exchange and fiscal revenues. The scheme has been very well received in Guinea, both by the public
and privat 3 sectors. Se:rsral categories of potential investors in the Investment Fund have been
identified. On the investment side, project sponsors are interested in the scheme not only as a source
of additional equity funds but also as a source of much-needed professional advisory services. The
scheme is also well perceived by commercial banks in Guinea, as a means to improving the financial
intermediation climate.  Finally, it has attracted the interest of several private-sector oriented
multilateral and bilateral agencies as a novel attempt to promote and develop the private sector, as well
as a factor to strengthen confidence amongst foreign investors.



26 -
4.    Proilot Manaaement
4.37         Daily management of the contracts established as the means to execute project
components will be entrusted to a private consultant firm (the "Project Manager') under a management
contract with the Ministry of Planning (para 4.62). The management contract to be funded by the IDA
credit for the entire project duration will include: (a) an expatriate agronomist for three years (see
Terms of Reference at Annex 5), to assist in the implementation of the Small and Medium Enterprise
component whose responsibility will befall on the Project Manager (para 4.22); (b) an expatriate
economist/institution specialist for three years (see Terms of Reference in Annex 5), to assist in the
execution of the Institutional support component which will also be the responsibility of the Project
Manager (para 4.08); (c) short-term consultancies for accounting and financial support; (d) short-term
consultancies to help implement the Monitoring and Evaluation system; (e) office facilities, operating
equipment and vehicles; and (f) operating costs, including the salaries of the Project Manager's staff
and the operating costs of the Project Steering Committee (para. 4.61). The Project Manager will have
complete delegation of authority (umattrise d'ouvrage d6legu6e") for any project commitment or
disbursement up to US$150,000 as far as IDA financing is concerned and GNF50 million as far as
government counterpart funding is concerned.
C.    Proiect Costs and Financina
1.    Cost Estimates
4.38         The total cost of the proposed project over the 1992-97 period, including all
incremental capital and operating expenditures, is estimated at GNF22.7 billion (US$24.6 million), of
which GNF 15.6 billion (US$16.9 million) or 69% in foreign exchange and about GNF 1.7 billion
(US$1.9 million) or 8% in taxes and duties.
4.39         Base costs have been estimated at May 1991 prices using the prevailing rate of
exchange of GNF 710 to the U.S. dollar effectiva at that date. These costs have been readjusted to
reflect the situation prevailing at negotiations in May 1992 when the rate of exchange was GF 922
to the U.S. dollar. Physical contingencies of varying amounts have been allowed on investment and
operating costs items, except for long-term technical assistance, PPF-financed activities, staff salaries
and special items (e.g. pilot activities). The average physical contingency amounts to 7% of base
costs, with individual rates ranging from 5% up to 15%. Price contingencies have been applied to
base costs over an estimated implementation period of five years (1992-97). Price contingencies on
foreign exchange costs based on the Bank's projections of international price increases have been
included at an average of 3.9% from 1992 to 1997. Price contingencies on local costs are based on
annual price increases of 17% for 1992, 12% for 1993, and 8% from 1994 onward, to reflect current
inflation trends in Guinea. Total price contingencies amount to 12% of base costs.



- 27 -
4.40             Project costs are summarized below and details are given in Annex 7.
Prolect Cost Sumnarv
GlEF Mitlion                   US$  Mittion          ___________
X Foreign       X Total
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign   Total       Exchange      Base Costs
A. Institution Development
1.  Institution Support Coap.       185       932      1117      0.3       1.0       1.3            83               6
2. Chamber of Comerce               218       334       552      0.2       0.4       0.6             60              3
3. Professional Organizations       225       293       518      0.2       0.3       0.5             56              3
Subtotal                        628      1559      2187      0.7       1.7       2.4            71              12
B. Production Suwort
1. Extension                        714      1852      2566      0.8       2.0       2.8             72             14
2. Adaptive Research                526      1579      2105      0.6       1.7       2.3             73             11
3. Small/Mediun Enterprises         325       911      1236      0.3       1.0        1.4            67              6
4. Prod. groups/coops               536       822      1358      0.6       0.9        1.5            60              7
5. Access Roads                     964      2250      3214      1.0       2.4       3.4             70             17
Subtotat                       3065      7414     10479      3.3       8.0       11.3            70             55
C. SDecfal Programs
1. Credit Mutuel                    355       648      1003      0.4       0.7       1.1            65               5
2. Private Investment Fund          350      1474      1824      0.4       1.6       2.0            81              10
Subtotal                        705      2122      2827      0.8       2.3       3.1             75             15
D. Project Precaratfon and Manacement
1. Project Management               864       977      1840      0.9       1.1       2.0            53               9
2. Project Preparation Facility    175       1580      1756      0.2       1.7        1.9            90              9
Sibtotat                       1039      2557      3596      1.1       2.8       3.9            71              18
Total Baseline Costs                   5437     13652     19089      5.9      14.8      20.7            71             100
Physical Contingencies              374       951      1325      0.4       1.0        1.4           71               7
Price ContingencIes                1333       967      2300      1.4       1.1       2.5            42              12
Total Projects Costs                   7144     15570     22714      7.7      16.9      24.6             68            119
...UUUU....u u. ....u 33... 3333.u.u_ . _ .=====3 ...3. .. UU33===u===~
4.41             Proiect Preparation Facility. Five PPF advances of US$250,000 each for the first three,
and US$350,000 and US$400,000 for the last ones were granted to the Government in March 1989,
July 1990, February and July 1991, and February 1992 respectively. These advances totalling
US$1,500,000 were used to finance: (a) a project feasibility study; lb) specialized consultancies to
prepare specific dossiers (contractual arrangements for project execution, audit and institutional survey
of the Chamber of Commerce, design of the Private Investment Fund scheme, etc.); and (c) the
establishment and operation of a project preparation unit to enable th  Govemment to fully participate
in project design and start-up activities. The proposed credit -- the first IDA credit for Guinea's
agriculture in FY92 - will also refinance a PPF advance of US$430,000 that should have been
refinanced by Cr. 1626-GUI (First Agricultural Services project). This advance was used, inter alia, to
finance background studies that led to the identification of the proposed project.



- 28 -
2.      Financino
4.42            Project costs will be borne by the co-financiers in the following amounts and
proportions:
Financina Plan by Disbursement Catebory
Item                 DAJ      fQ    Beneficiaries Government  Total   Foreign    Local     lax
Exchanse   (Without
Taxes)
-us$ Miltion) ----------------------
1. C£vtL Works                  3.7         -       0.7       0.4       4.8       3.4       0.7       0.7
2.  Vehicles                    0.8                   -         -       0.8       0.7       0.1         -
3.  Goods nd Eauicment           0.8         -        -         -       0.8       0.7       0.1         -
4.  Technical Assistance
a)  Short-term               1.7         -        -       0.5       2.2       1.9       0.3         -
b)  Resident                 Z-Q      0.6                              6      2.0       0.6 
Subtotal           3.7       0.6         -       0.5       4.8       3.9       0.9
5. Mont./ServMces Contracts      7.9         -        -         -       7.9       5.2       2.1       0.6
6.  Trafning                    0.8                    -      0.4       1.2       0.8       0.3       0.1
7. Operating Costs               1.2                  -       1.2       2.4       0.6       1.3       0.5
S. PPF Reffnancing               1.9              -             -       1.9       1.6       0.3         -
Net Financing Recufrements     20.8       0.6       0.7       2.5      24.6      16.9       5.8       1.9
Share of Financgna
With Taxes                 85         2         3        10       100        69        24         7
Without Taxes              92         2         3         3       100        73        27         0
4.43            The proposed IDA Credit of US$20.8 million will finance about 85%  of total project
costs, including US$4.7 million equivalent of local costs. It will contribute the following proportions
of project funding: (a) 100% of vehicles, goods/equipment and management/services contracts,
including the studies and consultancies financed under the PPF advance; (b) a large fraction of short-
term consultancies (80%), expenditures associated with pilot activities (75%), resident technical
assistance (75%), civil works (75%) and training expenditures (67%); and (c) on a declining basis,
50% of incremental operating expenditures. A summary account is given in Annex 7.
4.44            FAC financing amounting to US$0.6 million (2% of project costs) will be under parallel
arrangements. FAC will finance the long technical assistance for horticultural research (fruits). Local
funding will amount to the equivalent of US$3.2 million or 13% of total project costs. This will include
US$700,000 equivalent of participation by beneficiaries, i.e. 15% of the cost of access roads and 20%
of the expenditures associated with pilot activities. The Government will finance all taxes, and 50%
of operating expenditures on an increasing basis.



- 29 -
3.      PrgcUreme-nt
4.45             The following arrangements have been established for goods and services to be
procured under the project.
trocurement Arranoements j/
I t!m                  ICB             LC               Other             Cot ?i           Total
-------------------------USS MilLion-
1.  Civil Works                   3.4              0.7                                0.7              4.8
(3.0)           (0.7)               -                               (3.7)
2.  Vehictes                      0.6                -              0.2                                0.8
(0.6)                            (0.2)                              (0.8)
3. Goods and Eauiment                -             0.6              0.2                 .              0.8
-            (0.6)            (0.2)                              (0.8)
4. Technical Assistance
a)  Short-Term                                   -              2.2                                2.2
(1.7)                              0.7)
b)  Resident                                     -              2.0              0.6               2.6
-  -          (2.0)               -              (2.0)
Subtotal                                 -                      4.2               0.6              4.8
-             (3.7)               -              (3.7)
S. Mgmt./Services Contracts                          -              7.9                 -7.9
-             (7.9)               -(7.9)
6. Trainion                                          -              1.2                 -              1.2
-             (0.8)                              (0.8)
7.  Oceratina Costs                                  -              2.4                 -              2.4
-             (1.2)               -              (1.2)
8.  PPF Refinancing                                  -              1.9                 -              1.9
-             (1.9)               -              (1.9)
Total                         4.0              1.3             18.0               1.3             24.6
(3.6)           (1.3)           (15.9)                -            (20.8)
1 Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA financing
1  Contribution by beneficiaries (USS0.7 mitlion) would be done mostly in kind.  The value of their work/inputs
would be estifated at government tariffs. Paraltel financing by FAC (USS0.6 Million) would be done under
FAC's own procedures.
4.46             Civil Works. The contracts for the renovation of buildinas will be awarded through the
following procedures: (a) LCB procedures for the building designed to house the Export Piomotion
Division (including the one-stop window) of the Chamber of Commerce (US$95,000), and the
Agronomic Institute's (IRAG) buildings at the Foulaya Research Center (US$95,000); and (b) prudent
shopping - on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three local contractors
-- for the rehabilitation of several office buildings of the National Extension Project (PNVA) (about
US$12,000); these buildings are small in size and scattered geographically, and therefore the contracts
will not attract bidders under LCB. The contracts for rehabilitation of accegs roads will be awarded
on the basis of ICS for a total of US$3 million and LCB for a total of US$500,000. The bidding
packages will correspond to lots varying in size from US$250,000 to US$500,000 for ICB and
US$100,000 to US$250,000 for LCB. The contractors will have to bid separately on these lots, with
no discount allowed for joint offer for more than one lot. The remainder of the road financing will
consist _f the 15% contributed ex-ante by the beneficiaries (US$0.7 million). This contribution will
be made mostly in kind, using labor-based methods. The value of the workrinputs of beneficiaries will
be estimated at govemment tariffs.



!  30 -
4.47         Vehicles. Goods and Eguipment. Vehicles will be procured on the basis of ICB (one
contract of about US$600,000), except a small number of them required immediately upon project
start-up (up to an aggregate ceiling of US$200,000). These latter will be procured by prudent
shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three different suppliers.
The category noods and eauipment concerns mainly technical equipment, office equipment and office
furniture. These items will be procured through grouped bidding packages to allow for LCB; five such
packages will be established for a total amount of about US$600,000, three for about US$100,000
each (CCIAG, professional organizations and PDMCG) and two for about US$150,000 each (Project
Manager and IRAG). The remainder (about US$200,000) concerns items for which bulking will not
be feasible and/or items that will not be needed immediately upon project start-up. These items will
be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of price quotations from at least three different
suppliers.
4.48         Technical Assistance and Training (Annex 8). Resident technical assistance will be
provided for: (a) institutional support to the Chamber of Commerce and professional organizations
(three person-years, US$600,000) and assistance to Small and Medium Enterprise component (three
person-years, US$550,000); (b) support to the National Institute of Research for horticultural research
(three person-years, US$450,000; in addition, three person-years will be procured separately by FAC
for fruit research at an estimated cost of US$550,000); and (c) assistance to the Cooperative
Development Project (three person-years, US$450,000). The above assistance will be procured
following IDA guidelines for the re^ruitment of consultants, on the basis of the establishment of a
short-list of qualified firms -- except for the cooperative development contract which will be awarded
on a sole source basis to a NGO that has worked closely with cooperatives in Guinea in recent years.
Technical assistance under (a) will be procured as part of the project management contract (see para
4.49). Short-term technical assistance will be very specialized and encompass a wide spectrum of
expertise. There will therefore be a need to retain flexibility for individual hiring of consultants with
given expertise. As a result, a significant part of the short-term consultants in these categories -- for
an aggregate value not exceeding US$750,000 -- will be hired directly based on annual work programs
established by the implementing agencies and approved by IDA. One contract for about US$500,000
will be passed with COLEACP (an EEC-affiliated International Association, para 4.03) for institutional
and marketing support specifically to activities in the fruit and vegetable filiire". The remainder will
be included in the contracts for long-term technical assistance and/or management/services contracts.
Trainina activities will be procured following the same procedures as resident technical assistance. The
greater part - for an aggregate value not exceeding US$750,000 - will be procured directly based on
work programs established yearly by the implementing agencies; the remainder will be included in the
long-term technical assistance contracts and/or the management/services contracts. In all cases,
contracts for short-term consultants and training activities exceeding US$250,000 will be procured
following the same procedures as those for resident technical assistance. To the extent possible,
procurement of short-term consultants will be grouped to allow for this procedure.
4.49         Manaaement/Services Contracts (Annex 8). A substantial fraction of the IDA credit
(38%) is earmarked for the procurement of discrete management/services contracts that will be used
as a means to execute certain components of the project (para 4.64). The main such contracts will
be the following: (a) a contract for project management (US$2.6 million for the management services
part); (b) a services contract with the Credit Mutuel Company to execute the mutual credit component
of the project (US$1.2 million); and (c) a management contract with the Fund Management Company,
covering a fraction of the expenditures incurred by this company in managing the investment fund
during the project period (US$1.6 million). The above contracts will be awarded competitively
following IDA guidelines, on the basis of the establishment of a short list of qualified bidders -- except
for the Credit Mutuel contract awarded to that firm. The rationale for awarding the contract to the
Credit Mutuel company on a sole source basis is that this company at present is the only one in Guinea
which has embarked on the establishment of a Credit Union organization, and therefore is equipped
to promoting this type of organization as envisaged under the project (para 4.30). The contract with
the Fund Management Company will be financed by onlending the IDA funds to this company (para



- 31 -
4.35). In addition to the above contracts, a small number of services contracts (about six to eight) for
a total amount of US$2.5 million will be awarded on a sole source basis to individual nucleus estate
companies to undertake extension activities. The rationale for awarding these contracts on a sole
source basis to these nucleus estates is that they already produce a significant amount of products on
their own plantations and have production contracts with outgrowers in the vicinity of their plantations.
They are therefore the only operators really equipped to provide the customized extension support to
outgrowers envisaged under the project (para 4.18). All above contracts will be paid based on strict
monitoring criteria. Agreement on these criteria and on the contractual documents (including letters
of invitation and draft contracts) has been obtained at negotiations.
4.50          geratinjg Costs.  Operating costs corresponding to incremental salaries/travel
allowances, vehicle/equipment operation and maintenance, and office suppl.es will be financed by IDA
following government procedures which have been found acceptable. The IDA contribution will be on
a declining basis, at the rate of 100% for payments made through December 31, 1993 and 67%
thereafter. The remainder will be covered by the National Budget for government entities, and by their
own resources for the Chamber of Commerce and the professional organizations. The two latter
institutions are expected to gradually generate additional operating resources.
4.51         General Rules and Review. A major difficulty in completing efficient and timely
procurement of goods and services under IDA-financed projects at present in Guinea is the long
processing and approval lead time required and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the
provisions of the Procurement Code, due partly to rent seeking on the part of government staff. This
difficulty will be substantively circumvented under the project through the complete delegation of
authority for project procurement granted to the consultant firm recruited as Project Manager (para
4.62). Within its financial delegation (US$150,000), the Project Manager will oversee all project
procurement activities directly, and, in particular, ensure that all required IDA procurement rules (e.g.
LCB or local consultation) are duly applied. The LCB procedures to be followed under the project will
include local advertising, public bid opening, establishment of clear evaluation criteria, and award to
the lowest-evaluated bidder. Foreign bidders will not be excluded. The aggregate value for LCB and
prudent shopping has been specified in the Credit Agreement. All bidding packages for IDA-financed
goods and services estimated to cost more than US$250,000 equivalent will require prior approval by
IDA, as will the final award of the related contracts. These packages will represent about 80% of the
total value of goods and services financed by the IDA Credit. Prior approval will also be required for
the procurement of computer equipment and the recruitment of all technical assistance, regardless of
the related contract amounts or the source of financing. The other contracts will be subject to random
review by IDA after contract award.
4.    Disbursements and Revolvina Funds
4.52         Disbursements. Disbursement of the IDA Credit of SDR 15.2 million, equivalent to
US$20.8 million, is shown over a 7-year period starting July 1992 (Annex 9). Project disbursements
follow IDA's standard profile for West Africa Region agricultural projects, but start at a higher level as
they include US$1.9 million used for PPF refinancing. The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be disbursed
as follows:



- 32 -
Disbursement of IDA Credit
USS Mitlion     X of Expendit.
Catesory                            Eauivatent      To be Financed
1. Civil Works                        3.0        100 (Foreign currency)
80 (National currency)
2. Vehicles, goods and equipment
except for the Chamber of Counerce    1.4           100
3. Vehictes, goods, equipment,
training and operating expenditures
for the Chamber of Commerce        0.6              100
4. T.A., training and ugmt./ services
contracts except for the Chamber of
Comuerce and the Private Fund Scheme  9.0           100
S. Private Investment Fund Scheme 1/   2.0              100
6. Operating expenditures              1.0        Declining basis g/
7. PPF Refinancing                     1.9              100
8. Unaltocated                         1.9
Total                               20.8
1/     Two onlending agreements
O      100X for payments made through December 31, 1993, and 67X thereafter.
4.53           As this is the case for the procurement of goods and services (para 4.51), a major
difficulty in making timely disbursements under IDA-financed project in Guinea to date has been the
long delays for processing withdrawal applications, on account of different reasons notably rent
seeking by government staff. This problem will be eliminated under the project, except for large
payments over US$150,000, by the delegation of authority given to the private consultant firm acting
as Project Manager to approve (through signature by the National Coordinator) all withdrawal
application up to US$1 50,000 (paras 4.54 and 4.62). Disbursements will be fully documented except
with respect to (i) payment under any contract of less than $20,000 equivalent, (ii) local training, and
(iii) operating costs, which will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). The
supporting documentation will be retained by the Government and made available for ex-post
inspection by IDA missions. The yearly financial statements will be submitted to IDA before June 30
of each fiscal year. Provision has been made under the project for the necessary technical assistance
to design and set up the accounting systems required to efficiently maintain project accounts.
4.54           Revolvina Funds. A special account in U.S. dollars will be opened in a commercial bank
with an initial deposit of US$ 500,000. This account will be used to finance payments under US$
500,000 and will be replenished monthly on the basis of replenishment applications. 1+ will be
managed by the Project Manager. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations (para 7.01
(e)). The National Coordinator will be authorized to sign on expenditures up to US$150,000 which is
the financial delegation for foreign currency expenditures to be granted under the project management
contract (para 4.62). Above this amount the Minister of Planning or his delegate will have to sign.
IDA will replenish the above account upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of disbursements for
allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from these accounts for items not eligible,
the Government will be required to deposit the corresponding amount into the account. Disbursements
against this account will be monitored through monthly statements giving details of all withdrawals
and deposits, as well as the opening and closing balances.
4.55           To ensure efficient and timely project implementation, the Government will open a local
currency account (the "project account") at a local bank. Requirements in local currency to be met by
the Govemment will be established yearly and will form the basis upon which the local currency
account will be replenished. The Government will deposit its share of funding on the project account,
quarterly and in advance on the basis of disbursement forecasts for the next three months. An
assurance on the above was obtained at negotiations (para 7.01 (f)). The National Coordinator will
be authorized to sign on payments up to GNF50 million which corresponds to the delegation of
authority to be granted for expenditures in national currency under the project management contract
(para 4.62). Beyond this amount the Minister of Planning or his delegate will have to sign. A condition



- 33 -
of Credit effectiveness is the opening of the project account and the initial deposit by the Government
of GNF250 million, equivalent to about half of its financial contribution for PY1 (para 7.02 (a)).
5. Financial Manaaement. Accountina and Audit Reauirements
4.56         The Project Manager will be responsible for the preparation of annual project accounts
(pars 4.65). It will assist the Chamber of Commerce and the professional organizations in an advisory
capacity for all accounting, administrative and financial matters related to project financing. Because
of the shortage of local competence in the field of finance and accounting, steps will be taken to also
secure, as part of the project management contract, qualified services to: (a) design and implement
a computerized accounting (general and cost accounting) and budgetary systems; and (b) train national
staff in the use of this system.
4.57         Financial Procedures and Systems. The Project Manager will assume responsibility for
preparing and consolidating all project accounts, preparing and monitoring the overall project budget,
analyzing the variances, ensuring that payments to contractors for executing project components are
in compliance with project objectives and budget, and preparing disbursement applications and records.
It will maintain accounting records for project activities, consistent with sound accounting pr? rices
which will reflect fairly, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles, th e iverall
financial situation of the project. All accounting and financial operations (including the project annual
budget) will be fully computerized.
4.58         Audit. The project financial statements and Statements of Expenditurds (SOE-'I will
be audited annually in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards by a qualified
independent audit firm acceptable to IDA. Audited accounts and the audit reports (Short Form Report
with all required information, the Special Report on the utilization of IDA Credit, and the Management
Letter) will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations (para 7.01 (g)). The audit will include specific verification of the
legitimacy of all expenditures and an opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and utilization of
goods and services financed under the project. The auditors will also provide a Long Form Report,
including detailed comments on the financial, general and cost accounting systems, and an assessment
of the operational efficiency of the project.
4.59         Regorting.  The Project Manager will be responsible for monitoring project
implementation along the agreed implementation schedule (Annex 10), including physical and
institutional objectives. It will prepare semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Government
and IDA through the President of the Steering Committee (para 4.61). These reports, based on
mandatory semi-annual supervision of each component, will assess progress (physical, financial,
budgetary and institutional) against agreed annual programs of operations and targets. They will serve
as basis for IDA supervision missions (Annex 11). The National Coordinator -- through the President
of the Steering Committee - will communicate to IDA, before October 31 of each year, the project's
program of operations and detailed annual training program for the following year. The work plan for
the first year has been agreed at negotiations. The Project Manager will also be responsible to prepare
the Mid-Term Review in PY3 and a Project Completion Report after the Credit closing date. The Mid-
Term Review will aim at assessing the project results based on, inter alia: (a) the following monitorable
indicators showing project impact on the agricultural export sector: volume of exports generated,
number of operators involved and amount of investments achieved or under way; (b) progress in
implementing the project institution-building components; and (c) global judgement on the general
evolution of the sector, taking into account, inter alia, effective implementation of the prescribed policy
measures. Assurances on the above reporting requirements were obtained at negotiations (para 7.01
(h)).
D.    Proiect Oraanization and Manaaement
4.60          The objectives in establishing the management mechanism for the project are to



- 34 -
ensure: (a) maximum participation by the private sector; (b) operational autonomy in daily project
implementation; (c) adequate dialogueAnterface between the private sector and policy-making bodies;
and (d) proper monitoring and evaluation of project activities, including strict control of project
accounts. To achieve the above objectives, the project will be implemented as follows: (a) the overall
administrative tutelage ("Mattrise d'Ouvraae") will be vested with the Ministry of Plan and Finance
(MPF), with other departments having specific technical tutelage as indicated below; (b) project
management will be delegated by the MPF to a private consultant under the project management
contract ("Mattrise d'Ouvraae D4leaude") (para 4.49); and (c) project implementation will be carried
by executing agencies (either private entities or government projects) under execution contracts (either
for direct execution, or to act as intermediary for execution ("Mattrise d'Oeuvre")). The technical
tutelage of project components will be vested with several government departments as follows: (a) the
Ministry of Commerce, Transport and Tourism (MCTT), for the institution building and SME
components; (b) the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA), for the agricultural
extension (PNVA and Nucleus Estates), adaptive research and access roads components; (c) the
Central Bank (BCRG) for the Credit Mutual and Private Investment Fund components; and (d) the
National Directorate for Decentralization, for the Cooperatives component. Annex 12 presents the
project's organizational structure.
4.61         Steerina Committee. Project oversight will be vested in a Steering Committee ("Comit6
de Pilotage") chaired by the Minister of Planning or his delegate. The committee will act as a Board
of Directors, i.e. it will decide on project implementation policies, approve project work program and
budget, and clear project accounts. It will be chaired by the Ministry of Planning (or his delegate) and
be composed of representatives of all parties (private as well as government) involved in project
implementation. It will meet every six months, and whenever the need will arise. Creation of the
Committee, with composition and membership agreeable to IDA, is a condition of Credit effectiveness
(para 7.02 (b)).
4.62         Proiect Manaaer.  Project management activities will be entrusted to a private
consultant firm (the "Project Manager"), under a project management contract with the Ministry of
Planning. This firm will be selected through short-list based competitive bidding (para 4.49). It will
have a complete delegation of authority ("maltrise d'ouvrage d6lEgu4ee) for any project commitment
or disbursement up to US$150,000 as far as IDA financing is concerned, and GNF50 million as far as
govemment counterpart funding is concerned (paras 4.54 and 4.55). The Project Manager will have
the following main responsibilities: (a) oversee the execution contracts, at operational, administrative
and financial levels, and ensure the reconciliation of the administrative and financial data with the
operational data; (b) evaluate the project impact on the agricultural export sector as a whole, and on
targeted groups within the sector; and (c) monitor the overall evolution of the agricultural export
sector. It will also be responsible for: (a) monitoring implementation of the policy measures agreed as
part of the Letter of Agricultural Export Policy (LDPEA) (para 4.01); (b) serving as interface between
the project and external technical agencies/policy-making bodies; (c) executing two project components
(institution building and Small/Medium Enterprises); and (d) preparing the Project Interim Review (PY3)
and the Project Completion Report (para 4.59). At the end of the project, the project management
contract will be terminated, and the 'non-project" responsibilities of the Project Manager will be taken
over by the professional organizations. The Project Manager will be given the resources (through the
project management contract) to acquire the monitoring/evaluation, accounting/financial and technical
capability required to deliver its duties (see description of the project management component, para
4.37).
4.63         The project management team will be headed by a National Coordinator, assisted by
a Technical Coordinator. These two staff will be recruited nationally and have status of private
employee of the selected consultant firm (see Terms of Reference in Annex 5 . The National
Coordinator will have overall project management responsibility. He will play a key role in helping
oversee the evolution of the regulatory and institutional framework, and, in this regard, will serve as
interface between the Govemment, external agencies/policy-making bodies, private sector
organizations and the donor community. He will also be directly responsible for the institution building



-35 -
component and for specific dossiers in which the Government is still involved in variois capacities
(SALGUIDIA, SAIG, Daboya, etc., para 3.20). The Technical Coordinator will have general
responsibility for the project technical oversight and for monitoring the evolution of the export sector.
The project management team will have three other high level staff, two based at the project
headquarters (Conakry) and one at the project branch (Kindia, to be created). Two of these staff will
assist in the project technical supervision. The last one will be in charge of the Monitoring and
Evaluation {M&E) system. In this capacity, he will be responsible for: (a) preparing a series of critical
path analysis for each execution contract, as well as those components directly managed by the
Project Manager; (b) monitoring the latter components; and (c) programming the M&E work plan and
timetable for each execution contract and project component. He will also assist the Technical
Coordinator in providing data on the evolution of the agricultural export sector.
4.64         Execution Contracts. Procurement and payment of the execution contracts will be the
sole responsibility of the Project Manager, up to its financial delegation (para 4.62). The Minister of
Planning which has tutelage over the project, will be involved only for expenditures beyond that level.
The execution contracts will consist of managJement/services contracts and administrative/techn;cal
conventiors as described below. The following management/services contracts will be established
(para 4.49): (a) a services contract with Credit Mutuel; Cb) a management contract with the Fund
Management Company; and (c) several services contracts with nucleus estates to provide extension
services to outgrowers. In addition, administrative/technical conventions will be established between
the Project Manager and other government projects and/or institutions to execute the following
components: (a) extension support to smallholders, with the National Extension Project (PNVA); (b)
research support, with the National Institute of Agricultural Research (IRAG); (c) support to
cooperatives, respectively with the Cooperative Development Project CPDMCG) and the National
Cooperatives Service CSENATEC), at the National Directorate for Decentralization (SED); and {d) access
roads, with the National Directorate of Rural Engineering at MARA. The draft texts of the above
conventions and contracts have been agreed at negotiations.
4.65         Monitorinn and Evaluation {M&E) (Annex 13). The Monitoring and Evaluation system
wili be the key internal management tool for the Project Manager. In developing and implementing this
system, the project will work in close collaboration with the professional organizations, as the objective
will be to hand over its M&E capability to these organizations at the end of the project. Where
appropriate Ci.e. in those cases where the executing agency will have already a M&E system in place)
the systematic collection and processing of relevant data will be the responsibility of the executing
agency. Availability of this data in appropriate form will be a condition for disbursing the yearly
tranche of the contract. This data will contain information on key management indicators for use by
the Project Manager. In those cases where there is no M&E systen, in operation, part of the monitoring
activities will consist in assuring that adequate data will be prepared by the executing agency's staff.
This data will be processed by the Project Manager, and serve as basis for establishment of the yearly
work programs. It will be reviewed during each of the mandatory bi-annual supervision missions
conducted by the Project Manager (para 4.59).
4.66         Monitoring activities will aim at providing the Project Manager with permanent
information on the execution of each execution contract, as well as those components directly
managed by the Project Manager. This will be accompanied by an appropriate analysis of
implementation problems. Evaluation activities will be the periodic evaluation of the project's effects
on the increase in agricultural exports, and on the welfare/development status of targeted producers
(nucleus estates, outgrowers, independent producers, and farmers groups/cooperatives). Under routine
evaluation activities, a series of surveys will be undertaken amongst the target groups to determine
the rate of adoption (and repeated use) of new technologies, as well as the perceived conceptions of
the adaptive research component. Quick diagnostic surveys will be carried out as necessary. These
surveys, along with the export statistics of each nucleus estate (with breakdowns by estate and
outgrower production and ratios of production/exportation) should enable the Project Manager to
periodically assess the effect oi the project on export production and ultimately the "post-project"
situation. Special attention will need to be focussed on local marketing of the outgrowers surplus



- 36-
production (i.e. that surplus which does not meet export standards). The permanent monitoring
information, along with results of periodic surveys and studies, will form the basis of the preparation
for the Mid-Term Review in PY3 and the Project Completion Report at the end of the project period.
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
5.01         For Guinea, more so than other countries, the limiting factor to the development of
horticultural exports (mostly fresh exports) is undoubtedly external market outlets. Guinea is the
country nearest to Europe by boat for tropical products, and once low cost/regular shipment by sea
becomes possible and dorr.astic handling is organized, production can follow suite quickly provided
market outlets can be secured. Amongst the perishable commodities, pineapples should receive priority
as they are the only commodity which can rapidly reach the critical export volume (300 tons per week)
to permit regular transportation by sea to Europe at acceptable cost. The targets set below for
pineapples (25,000 tons), and -- as a second priority -- mangoes (8,000 tons), are conservative and
can be exceeded readily. These targets can be met by well-managed production over approximately
4,000 hectares by the year 2000 (half of this area for each crop) (paras 5.05 and 5.10), whereas in
Maritime Guinea alone more than ten thousand hectares of prime land suited for such a production is
available.
5.02         The assessment of the market potential for Guinean horticultural products has taken
into account only Western European markets. In the near future, exports to other international markets
(e.g. East European, CIS and Middle Eastern countries) and the sub-regional market (e.g. Senegal) are
likely to be small in value. However, they should not be overlooked in the medium-to-long run,
especially since quality standards acceptable on these markets are likely to remain lower than in
Western Europe. Moreover, Guinea is a muslim country with special ties with the Arab world, and
therefore may enjoy special access to Arab markets. Diversification should therefore also be pursued
as new market opportunities emerge.
5.03         The viability of horticultural exports hinges on a good balance between fresh and
processed products. The latter will employ the crop varieties which cannot be exported, thereby
providing the value-added needed to make the industry viable. In this respect, the project will be
instrumental in establishing the necessary inter-connections among the various agents in the sector,
notably between producers and agro-processing units (those at Maferinya (SALGUIDIA) and Mamou
(SAIG) in particular) (para 3.20). At the production level, several types of operators are distinguished:
(a) the nucleus estates (Annex 1); (b) the outgrowers associated to these nucleus estates (smallholders
and medium size producers); and (c) the "independent" smallholders. The project field activities will
focus on the four prefectures in Maritime Guinea and two in Middle Guinea which have the greatest
potential for horticultural products. Project resources for extension activities will be channeled to
outgrowers through the nucleus estates (para 4.18), and to the independent smallholders through the
National Extension project (PNVA) (para 4.16).
A.    Fresh PineaDples
5.04         Yields. At present, pineapples are produced mainly by small planters and production
groups. For smallholders this production is a subsidiary activity that does not conflict with their main
farming activity which is foodcrop production (mainly bottomland rice) -- neither in terms of cropping
area (the pineapples are grown at the periphery of the bottomlands), nor in terms of cropping calendar.
It is expected that, over the project period, some of the smallholders will specialize in pineapple
production, those in particular who will enter into production contracts as "outgrowers" with nucleus
estates or exporting companies. These outgrowers are expected to grow on average 2 ha, whereas
the "independent" smallholders would only devote 1/2 ha to the crop. Current exportable yields,
especially amongst independent sinallholders remain low, from about 25 tons/ha for nucleus estates
to only 10 tons/ha for independent smallholders. These yields would increase substantially under the



- 37 -
project, to 40 tons/ha for estates, 35 tons/ha for outgrowers and 20 tons/ha for independent
smaliholders (Annex 14 Table 1 . This increase would be accompanied by a substantive improvement
in quality and reduction of post-harvest losses.
5.05         Area crooped. The impetus for area expansion is expected to be generated by the old
estate plantations (especially Daboya and SALGUIDIA, para 3.20) that would be rehabilitated and the
new estates that would be established. Outgrowers and independent smaliholders are expected to
follow suite, as the industry becomes organized with assistance of the estates and the Research and
Extension project. This would result in a substantial increase in the area cropped (Annex 14, Table 3),
but still represent only some 1,355 ha under cultivation in 1996/97 and 2,050 ha in the year 2000,
i.e. a small fraction of the total area suitable for pineapple production in Maritime Guinea (900 ha of
irrigated land in the SALGUIDIA plantation alone).
5.06         Production. Total production in 1990/91 was estimated at a low 5,000 tons, of which
3,500 tons by smallholders and 1,500 tons by large/industrial plantations. Fresh exports to Europe
amounted to approximately 1,100 tons. These exports are forecasted to increase to about 17,000
tons during the project period and to 25,000 tons in the year 2000, along the schedule presented in
Annex 14 Table 4. The large plantations, which would collect the production of neighboring
outgrowers, would account for the bulk of exports. One bottleneck might be the insufficient supply
of fertilizer and planting material to smallholders. This bottleneck would be addressed by the proposed
EEC-funded Fruit Promotion Project to be implemented in parallel to the present project. The difficulty
would be eased also as estates would produce plants on a commercial basis and supply inputs under
seasonal production contracts to outgrowers in the vicinity of their plantations, and as small-and-
medium sized enterprises (SMEs) would establish themselves with project support to provide
production services and inputs to independent smallholders.
5.07         Markets and Prices. Once low cost/regular transportation is established, increases in
fresh pineapple exports in the medium-to-long run hinge on the penetration of the West European
market. West Europe imported 245,000 tons of fresh pineapples in 1988. It offers a market which
is still expanding, albeit at a much slower rate. Average growth of demand, which was around 20%
annually between 1983 and 1985, is estimated at 3% from 1990 to 1995 and 2% subsequently until
the year 2000. The production objectives set for Guinea correspond to a notional market share of
7.5% by the year 2000. This objective is within reach, as Guinean exporters with the assistance of
the project would ensure quality and regularity of shipments, promote new varieties (such as Baronne
de Rothschild and Victoria Queen) and establish efficient distribution networks (in particular with
supermarkets). In the long run, a potential exists for further increases in exports given the foreseeable
development of East European and CIS markets.
5.08         On the French mark-et, where the demand currently ranks first in Europe, top quality
products shipped by sea command a wholesale price of about 6 FF/kg. Prices for Queen type
pineapples shipped by air at a more mature stage and intended for buyers with high purchasing power,
are around 11 FF/kg, but quantities involved are small. At a price of 6 FF/kg, the derived farmgate
price is about 205 GNF/kg (Annex 14, Table 9). Taking into account production costs (including family
labor requirements for smallholders, see Annex 14. Tables 5 and 6), such a farmgate price level would
bring a notional return per hectare that should give substantial incentive for producers to adopt or
expand pineapple production. This return is estimated at: (a) GNF1.5 million per ha for estate
plantations; (b) GNF2.5 million per ha for outgrower plantations; and (c) GNF1.6 million per hectare
for small independent planters.
B.   eshMe
5.09         Yields. Present mango production in Guinea remains more akin to a "gathering rather
than a plantation activity. Smallholders collect only a minute fraction of the fruits and sell them - at
a cost reflecting the opportunity cost of their labor -- to transporters/exporters at the road nearest to
their village. The bulk of the fruits is left to rot on/under the trees. This represents a loss because a



- 38 -
significant fraction of the fruits are of grafted varieties that could be exported; it also increases the
incidence of cryptogamic diseases (antracnosis in particular). Under these circumstances, present yield
figures -- less than a ton per hectare -- are hardly relevant. With good management (efficient
treatment, proper pruning, application of fertilizer, etc.) and introduction of early varieties (to avoid
cryptogamic diseases as they mature before the start of the rain) exportable yields are expected to
reach 7 t/ha for estate plantations, with small plantations reaching a conservative 4 t/ha.
5.10         Crooned Area and Production. The prcduction capacity of existing plantations of
grafted mangoes is estimated at some 15,000 tons. But, only around 300 tons find their way to
international export markets, whilst unrecorded but substantial quantities are shipped to Senegal
through the Fouta Djallon. Over the project period, it is estimated that around 200 ha would be
replanted and 500 ha would be grafted, along the schedule indicated in Annex 14 Table 2. Given that
the management of plantations would greatly improve, exportable quantities are forecasted to reach
5,000 tons in 1996/97 and 8,000 tons by the year 2000. These figures are conservative: they
represent small areas under cultivation if yield targets are met, i.e. about 1,400 ha and 2,300 ha
respectively assuming production at par by small and estate plantations. Targets could easily be
exceeded if, inter alia, new varieties matching market requirements are introduced and corresponding
market outlets are secured. Mango production by the individual smallholder is expected to cover a
minimal area (1/4 ha); the individual estate-type plantation would likewise remain relatively small (5
ha).
5.11         Markets and Prices. The European demand for fresh mangoes has grown at the high
annual rate of around 20% in recent years, and amounted to 30,000 tons in 1988. Growth is
expected to continue at a sustained -- albeit lower -- rate in the future. Forecasts are 10% between
1990 and 1995, and 7% thereafter. Guinea in addition would face stiff competition as its production
period (April to July) coincides with that of other African suppliers, such as Mali and Burkina Faso; but
it would have an edge regarding costs as it would export by sea rather than by air which is a
requirement for the other countries. Prevailing wholesale prices in Europe during the Guinean
production period are between 12 FF/kg for high grade fruit shipped by air and 9 FF/kg for standard
quality fruits shipped by boat. The notional farmgate price derived from the wholesale price for sea
shipment (Annex 14 Table 9) at about 560 GNF/kg allows for very substantial net returns (GNF3.4
million per ha for estates and GNF2.0 million for smallholdings) which should give great incentive to
expand production. It is worth noting that the price paid by Guinean exporters at present (F ound 50
GNF/kg) is only a minute fraction of the computed farmgate price, because heavy production losses
are incurred (production is collected manually and hand-carried to the nearest paved road in traditional
baskets). The rehabilitation of access roads undertaken as part of the project would go a long way
toward remedying this situation.
C.    Manao Pul
5.12         The following targets have been set for the production of mango pulp: 1,500 tons for
1996/97 and 1,900 tons in the year 2000, equivalent to 4,000 tons and 5,000 tons of fresh fruits
respectively. These targets are conservative even assuming no replanting or grafting of trees, since
the current production capacity is about 15,000 tons of fresh fruits. However, all mango varieties are
not equally suited for processing, and appropriate varieties will have to be planted if the trend
envisaged is to be sustained. Mango pulp will be produced at the SAIG and SALGUIDIA plants, with
fruits bought from small planters. The SAIG plant which was rehabilitated in 1989 has a capacity of
30,000 tons of fresh fruits that far exceeds the targeted volume; SALGUIDIA has another 12,000 tons
of capacity (Annex 1).
5.13         The demand for mango pulp on the European and Middle-Eastern markets is sustained.
The pulp is used in particular to produce milk products (such as yogurts) and exotic beverages. This
demand was estimated at 10,000 tons in 1988; it is expected to grow at a rate of 5% annually during
the 90s. Guinea could reasonably anticipate supplying around 10% of the total market. Current prices
are approximately FF 5,500 per ton CIF Rotterdam of pulp with 15-16% dry material. Provided the



- 39 
SAIG Mamou plant functions normally, this price should allow for a substantial increase in the current
price of about 30 GNF/kg paid to smaliholders for second category products, thereby insuring adequate
av.ilability of supply.
D.     Non-Traditional Commodities
5.14           Guinea has a comparative advantage for non-traditional commodities for which the
West-European market is growing rapidly, Inter alia, (Annex 14. Table 10): essential oils for perfumery
(already exported by SOPAG). melons, cherry-type tomatoes and cut flowers (exported by Guin6e-
Fleurs), concentrated passion-fruit juice (to be exported by SAIG; see summary description of these
estates in Annex 1), organic products (including dried fruits, produced by several SMEs), and other
products such as papayas, off-season green beans, asparagus, limes, guavas, litchees and ginger.
5.15           Unlike pineapples, most of the above products have high sale price per unit, as they
are intended for buyers with a high purchasing power. They can therefore bear transport costs by air
and still remain profitable, in particular for SMEs, cooperatives or smallholders who can put in the
intensity of labor required. The prerequisite will be in all instances to produce quality products in a
timely fashion. Altogether, it is expected that the non-traditional commodities will account for a
substantial part of horticultural exports with export quantities of 3,000 tons in 1996/97 and 5,000
tons in the year 2000, corresponding to a FOB value (1991 constant terms) of US$7.5 and 12.5
million respectively.
E.     Summao
5.16           The following two tables summarize the estimated quantities and FOB values for the
main export commodities targeted by the project. The notional share of the European market that
Guinea would have by the year 2000 (7.5% for pineapple, 9.5% for mango and 10% for mango pulp)
are reasonable if marketing conditions are met; in fact, it might end up being lower as some products
might be re-shipped to other markets (East European and CIS countries). On the above basis, the total
estimated FOB value of the targeted crops is US$ 24 and 37 million for 1996/97 and the year 2000
respectively.
Estimated Export Quantities of Main Taraceted Crons vs European Demand
Base Demand I/      Growth rate           Future Demand        Guinean Share
90/95     95/2000        1995     2000        1996/97   2000
-----tons---     ------- -----------      ------tons-*---      -------tons-----
0
Pineappte        245,000       3X        2          301,000  332,000        17,000  25,000
Nango (fresh)     39,000      10X         7X          58,000   85,000         5,000   8,000
Mango (Putp)      10,000       5X         5X           15,000   19,000        1,500   1,900
Other Commoditfes  29,000      -          -              -        -           3,000   5.000
1/   Estimate for 1988



- 40 -
Estimated FOB Value of the Main Tarceted Croos 1/
Unit Price   Present Situation   1996/9    Year 2000
S/kg          Sm            Sm         Sm
Pineapple          0.6            0.7          10.2       15.0
Mango (fresh)      1.0            0.3           1.0        8.0
Mango (Pulp)       0.6             -            0.9        1.1
other Commodities    -            0.5           7.5       12.5
Total          -             1.5          23.6       36.6
1/  FOS value, in constant 1991 USS, assuming no change in selling prices.
VI. BENEFITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.     Proiect Benefits
6.01          The main project benefit would accrue from supporting a development strategy targeting
private operators, in the agricultural export sector -- a sector which offers promising development
opportunities in the short-to-medium term. The project will act as a catalyst for an effective application
of the reform measures, thereby helping to create an enabling environment not only in this sector but
throughout the economy. In this respect, it will be a necessary complement to the Government's reform
program supported by-the Bank under the on-going SAL Il/Private Sector Support (PSPP) and proposed
Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Project. The project's goals which are geared
to the short-to-medium term (in particular those pursued under the special programs that are pilot in
nature) will complement those pursued under other Bank projects aimed at the long-term development
of the agricultural sector, in particular the on-going Research and Extension project (FY89) and the
proposed credit and cooperatives project (FY95). The instit'jtion-building component -- aimed at private
sector institutions - will render the strategy operational. Increased export activities will result: (a) at
the micro-level in increased incomes for the private operators (small and large) doing business in the
various agricultural export industries; and (b) at the macro-level, in the establishment of a broader base
for economic growth, including diversification of the sources of foreign exchange.
6.02          The target population benefitting from the groduction comoonents (except the access
roads) will be: (a) the independent small producers assisted by the Agricultural Extension (PNVA) project
on behalf of the project; (b) the outgrowers working under contract with the nucleus estates; (c) the
workers employed by the nucleus estates, the Small-and-Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and the producer
groups/cooperatives supported by the project; and (d) all the population employed on jobs created in
the agricultural export industries targeted by the project. It is estimated that this population will number
approximately 15,000 persons; these persons are mostly under-employed at present. The access road
will benefit the population at large in the areas they will help open up. The soecial oroarams (Crddit
Mutuel and Private Investment Fund) will concern specific target groups. These groups will generally
overlap with those targeted under the production components - in this fashion they will benefit from
the operational synergy created in the project areas. Therefore, they are not taken into account here.
The institution comoonent will benefit private operators at large. It is expected that, through the
multiplier effect, indirect benefits from this component will accrue to larger segments of the population,
as the agricultural export sector will organize itself and serve as engine of growth for private sector
development. The size of the latter target groups cannot be quantified.



41-
B.    Economic Justification
6.03         Owing to the diversity of project components, no attempt has been made to calculate
an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole. Rather, the ERR has been estimated for
the subset consisting of the production components (including the access roads). The benefits from
the Institution component, and the special programs that are pilot in nature, cannot be realistically
quantified. Therefore no ERR has been computed from these components.
6.04         The basic assumption used in the computation of the ERR for the production
components is that the full incremental production of independent smallholders and outgrowers, as well
as that of producer groups/cooperatives and SMEs supported under the project, can be attributed to the
project. In contrast, only a fraction of the incremental output of the nucleus estates can be taken into
account, as their production is not directly supported by the project. Therefore their incremental output
is only used in the sensitivity analysis. This is a conservative approach, especially in view of the fact
that certain production components, in particular the access roads, will benefit not only the project
target groups but also the rural population at large. The labor input has been shadow-priced at differing
rates of the market value depending on the anticipated calendar for cropping activities (e.g. full pricing
for the picking of mangoes that takes place during land preparation for food crops, and less than full
pricing for certain tasks on pineapple that do not conflict with the food crop calendar). The market
value varies across the six project prefectures, from GNF 750 (less than one dollar) per person-day in
the Fouta Djallon where labor is relatively abundant and labor opportunities are scarce, to GNF 1,500
(over 1.5 dollar) for certain areas of Maritime Guinea where labor is attracted to Conakry and price is
accordingly pushed upward. On the above basis, taken into account the net benefit streams over a 40
year period (estimated productive life of tree-crop plantations), the ERR of the production components
is estimated at 17%, and the Net Present Value (NPV) of the benefits discounted at 10% (the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Guinea) is approximately GNF 7 billion. If investment costs increase by
10% and benefits decrease by 25%, the ERR falls to 13%. In contrast, if costs decrease by 10% and
benefits increase by 25%, the ERR increases to 22%.
C.    Budaetarv and Balance of Payment Imoact
6.05         The project budgetary impact, net of taxes, during the project implementation period
is estimated at the equivalent of US$0.6 million, i.e. about US$100,000 per year which should be
manageable even under the Govemment's anticipated tight budgetary constraints. The project's long-
term budgetary impact will be minimal, as the bulk of project activities will be taken over by the private
sector following project completion and therefore the Government's budgetary support will be phased
out gradually. This is particularly the case of road maintenance that should be undertaken increasingly
by local communities, and research/extension activities by the nucleus estates, producer
groups/cooperatives and private companies. With reference to the Chamber of Commerce, it is
expected that, with the 'centimes additionnels- and self-generated revenues, it will become financially
independent as of project completion. The same situation will prevail for the professional organizations.
The project impact on the country's balance of payments will be high-ly positive. The streams of
incremental foreign exchange benefits have been computed for horticultural products over a 40 year
period. The NPV of these benefit streams computed at the expected rate for intemational inflation
(3.9%) is US$120 million.
D.    Environmental Imoact
6.06         Developing export crops on a commercial basis in the context of Guinea means
intensifying agriculture. This will contribute to decreasing the incidence of itinerant cropping which is
destructive to the environment. Intensifying smallholder horticultural crops will typically involve
bottomiands development. Such a development will be done using the abas-fonds complex" approach
aimed at managing the entire watersheds of the areas being targeted, and therefore be highly beneficial
for the conservation of the environment. This approach been successfully implemented In the IDA-
financed Gueckedou Area Development project (Cr. 1635-GUI) recently completed. Rehabilitation of
the mango plantations will enhance the protective function of the mango trees. This rehabilitation will



- 42 -
involve mostly grafting existing trees with no uprooting. The creation of new plantations will not
involve any land clearing. Potential health hazards due to chemical treatments will be avoided, as phyto-
sanitary control will be tightened under the proposed EEC-funded Fruit Promotion Project and issuance
of quality labels will only be given to products that are free of chemicals. Road rehabilitation will not
involve any land clearing, and will be carried out in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Bank
guidelines for environmental preservation. An environmental assessment for the project was completed
as part of preparation. It includes a mitigation plan along the above lines that was incorporated in
project design.
E.    Riska
6.07         The major risk is that the business climate may not improve on account of factors
outside the project's control. This risk will be minimized by: (a) the effective application of policy
measures requested as part of the IDA-supported Private Sector Promotion Program (PSPP); these
measures are designed to strengthen the incentives framework; (b) the overall support and coaching
provided under the project to private-oriented s~_ivities that will act as catalyst to restore confidence
amongst investors; and (c) the strengthening of the Chamber of Commerce and professional
organizations that will help empower the private sector and defend its interests vis-A-vis the
Government.
6.08         Another risk, also in great part outside project control, is the continued reluctance of
commercial banks to provide term credit for agricultural export businesses. This risk will be mitigated
by:.(a) the application of specific policy measures requested as part of the PSPP and PATSEP programs
(concerning in particular the establishment of bank guarantees and the strengthening of the judicial
system); (b) the implementation, under the project, of a Private Investment Fund scheme under which
advisory support and equity funds will be provided; and (c) the establishment of a specialized line of
credit, as part of the proposed EEC-funded Fruit Promotion Project.
6.09         A technical risk is that the advanced techniques required to produce non-traditional
crops and adapt to the requirements of the rapidly evolving external markets are not introduced in a
timely fashion. To address such a risk: (a) on the production side, the project will provide specialized
technical support so that appropriate technologies be incorporated into research programs and
disseminated to producers in a timely fashion; the nucleus estates will be instrumental to achieve this
objective; and (b) on the marketing side, the Project Manager through the /institution support component
will provide the necessary commercial information and help Guinean operators establish partnerships
with foreign partr,ers.
6.10         An operational risk is that the public projects which will be used for the execution of
certain components may not have the required operational capacity and that their objectives (which are
long-term) may not coincide with project objectives (which have shorter horizon). This problem will be
circumvented by: (a) precisely specifying the tasks to be performed as part of the implementation
contracts; (b) providing the required operating facilities under these contracts; and (c) ensuring close
monitoring of contract execution. A final operational bottleneck might be the insufficient supply of
fertilizer and planting material to smallholders. This bottleneck is specifically addressed by the proposed
EEC-funded Fruit Promotion Project; it will be eased also as estates will produce plants on a commercial
basis and supply inputs under seasonal production contracts to outgrowers, and as small-and-medium
size enterprises (SMEs) will establish themselves with project support to also provide production
services and inputs.
VIl. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01 Assurances Obtained at Neaotiations
(a)   the Letter of Agricultural Export Policy Development (LPDEA) will be the framework for
project implementation (para 4.01);



- 43 -
lb)    CCIAG will be restructured In a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 4.12);
IC)    proceeds from the IDA Credit will serve to finance services/management contracts with
(i) selected nucleus estates (US$2.5 million) (para 4.19), and (ii) the Cr6dit Mutuel
company (US$1.2 million) (para 4.31);
(d)    a contribution amounting to at least 15% of total rehabilitation cost, to be paid upfront,
will be requested from the beneficiaries of the access roads component (para 4.28).
le)   the Government will open a special account in foreign currency in a commercial bank
under terms and cornditions acceptable to IDA, for deposit of proceeds from the IDA
credit (para 4.54);
(h)   the Government will open a project account in local currency and deposit on it its share
of the project funding quarterly and in advance, based on annual budgets and
disbursement forecasts for the next three months (para 4.55);
{i)    audited accounts and the audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each fiscal year (para 4.58); and
:)    the Project Manager will be responsible for preparing (i) semi-annual progress reports,
{ii) the Mid-Term Review report, and (iii) the Project Completion Report (para 4.59).
7.02         Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a)    opening of a project account and deposit on this account of a minimum amount of
GNF250 million, equivalent to the Government's counterpart funding for the first six
months of project implementation (para 4.55); and
(b)    establishment of the project's Steering Committee with composition and membership
acceptable to IDA (para 4.61);
7.03         Conditions of Credit Disbursement
(a)    against the CCIAG component: (i) issuance of the decree establishing the new statutes
of CCIAG, (ii) election of the President by the members of the Consular Assembly, (iii)
recruitment of the Secretary General by the Executive Committee, through competitive
selection, (iv) mandatory private employee status for all staff, and (v) preparation of a
workable financial restructuring program, including provision for the gradual repayment
of CCIAG's debts (para 4.12); and
(b)    against part of the expenditures (up to US$1.6 million) incurred under the five-year
management contract between the Fund Promo,er and the Fund Management Company:
signature of the corresponding subsidiary loan agreement with the Fund Management
Company under terms and conditions (including interest rate and foreign exchange risk)
satisfactory to IDA Ip-Ara 4.35).
7.04         Recommendation. With the above agreements, the project will be suitable for a credit
of SDR 15.2 million (US$20.8 million equivalent) to th, Government of Guinea, on standard IDA terms
with 40 years of maturity.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Descriotion of Main Nucleus Estates
Guinee-Eleurs. This is a private 40% Guinean and 60% French (Gregori) joint-venture
established at Unsan (Mamou prefecture, 230 km from Conakry) in August 1987 which has
pioneered the exportation of cut flowers (chrysanthemum) and vegetab,es for the European
market. It is a medium size operation whose investment, financed in part with a CCCE loan,
consists largely of agricultural equipment, including irrigated equipment, unheated greenhouses
and transport/storage facilities (including a cold storage in Conakry). Out of 200 ha leased,
the area under cultivation consists of 3.5 ha of greenhouse and 140 ha of irrigated land.
Flower production has rapidly become marginal, with the focus being increasingly placed on
cherry tomatoes and melons. Production capacity is now arourid 550 tons of which 60
percent exported. Guinde-Fieurs has particular advantage in terms of its low overhead,
diversified production and nearby presence of smallholders (who can provide labor and
additional production). At some stage, the company has experienced technical difficulties,
which have been compounded by the lack of avail.bility/cost of packaging material. These
difficulties have been overcome. However, the recent withdrawal of Gregori has resulted in
serious financial problems which unfortunately may lead to the complete halt of operations.
Socidt6 Aoro-industrielle di Guinee. SAIG was created in Mamou in 1988, as a mixed capital
company to produce fruit juice and concentrate (mainly passion fruit and mango) for the export
market. Total processing capacity is 30,000 tons of fresh fruit equivalent, to be supplied by
nucleus plantations and outgrows,rs. The GNF550 million capit^I is distributed as follows:
private Guinean and French investors (35% and 45%, mainly SIASS), PROPARCO (subsidiary
of CCCE, 10%) and the Guinean Government (10%). Total investments made to date
(including the renovation of a processing unit) amount of FF41 million. Production has started
in April 1990, but the processing unit had to close six months after following bankruptcy of
SIASS, the main shareholder. In addition to the latter's lack of financial capacity, the reasons
for SAIG's difficulties are primarily connected to the bad business environment prevailing In
Guinea and the lack of support services (research and extension). SAIG has recently obtained
financial assistance for an emergency program that should permit to redress the situation and
give lead time to seek a new partner (Sobragui Agriculture has expressed interest). Prospects
look good given the high production potential of SAIG's nucleus and outgrower plantations and
the sustained demand on the European market for its two
Societe des Plantes Aromatiaues de Guin4e. SOPAG is a former State factory for the
production of essential oils for perfumes that was privatized in 1987. It was taken over by the
French group TECOTEX-Cavallet, which owns 51 % of the capital, the rest being shared
between the State (39%) and private Guinean investors (10%). The factory has been entirely
rehabilitated under IDA financing (Cr. 1234-GUI) and has been operational since 1987. It
produces extracts intended for both the perfume and food flavoring industries, especially from
the following flowers: karo-karounde (a flower grown only in the Fouta DOallon whose essence
is used by Guerlain), jasmine and orange. It also produces smallholder-processed orange peel
oil. These products are high value-added and command a small but sustained export market.
The company is currently in difficulty, but it should be a viable enterprise in the long run due
to: (a) the low cost of labor for a labor intensive process; (b) the uniqueness of Guinean
production of 'Karo Karound4" and orange essence that may eventually command a premium
in the market; and (c) the climatic factors that are particularly propitious to introducing and
developing new floral plants.



- 45 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Soci4td Ubvo-Guineenne de Develoooement Aoro-Industriel. Salguidia is a parastatal whose
capital amounting to GNF700 million is shared equally by the Guinean and Ubyan governments.
The company has an estate of about 2,000 ha of prime land 140% irrigated) in one of the
regions best suited for pineapple production. It also has a processing unit with capacity to
process 10,000 tons of fresh pineapple and 2,000 tons of citrus. The productive assets are
in excellent condition, in particular the irrigation system and the small canning unit that were
rehabilitated in 1986/87 with CCCE financing. However, the company has experienced
financial problems since the beginning of its operations. This is due to the fact that the
company has always operated at very low capacity. The current area under production is only
50 ha and the annual production around 350 tons, the bulk exported to Ubya. Salguidia has
attempted, with limited results, to increase its processing quantity by buying fruits to
outgrowers. Overall results as of the date of creation of the company have been disappointing.
The reasons are well known (bad management, poor marketing, lack of a networking of
outgrowers, etc.) and could easily be remedied if the management of operations were
privatized, given the exceptionally good production potential of the region.
Sobraoui Aariculture. In 1987 the Govemment decided to get into partnership with the Belgian
group UNIBRA for the rehabilitation of the SOBRAGUI beer and soft-drink factory. As part of
the agreement, it was requested that this company would seek to produce its raw material
locally to spare foreign exchange. SOBRAGUI therefore rented 300 ha of land to Salguidia.
As it rapidly appeared that the production of maize was. unviable, SOBRAGUI decided to tum
to export crops to generate foreign exchange. Following a trial period in 1989/90, SOBRAGUI
is currently implementing a production program that includes 150 ha of pineapple, 50 ha of
passion fruit, 40 ha of papaya (solo variety), and several hectares of chilies, melons and cherry
tomatoes. At full development, production is forecasted at about 5,000 tons of fruits and
vegetables (of which 3,200 tons of pineapple), the best quality for export and the rest for the
*       domestic market. It is also planned that around 1,300 tons of pineapple be bought from local
. smallholders. Given the operational support provided by SOBRAGUI and the large production
potential of its estate, the company has excellent chances of success, provided the
environment is favorable.
Aarafruits. This concerns the govemment estate of Daboya a total area of 400 ha that was
developed with the assistance of IDA from 1977 to 1981, with a view to producing pineapples
for export. Well documented reasons - related to its statutes as a State enterprise and the lack
of an environment propitious to exporting perishable products - lead to disastrous results right
from the start of the project. The Govemment for years thereafter tried to redress the situation
to no avail, and finally agreed to search for a partner. This resulted in the establishment of a
contract end-1 990 with Agrafruits-Guinde, a subsidiary of the Franco-Swiss group Agracom,
that at some stage marketed an important fraction of the Ivorian production on the European
market. Agrafrult development plan calls for the rehabilitation of the irrigatioii system, and the
establishment of new plantations following techniques that have proved successful in Cate
d'lvoire. Pineapple production is forecasted at 6,000 tons at full development, with in addition
1,700 tons of pineapple and 3,000 tons of mangoes to be collected amongst the outgrowers.



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
National Agricultural Export Promotion Project
Chamber of Commerce. Industry and Aericulture of Guinea (CCIAG)
Appendix 1. Current Situation
Statutes     Created in 1985 as an institution with financial administrative autonomy under the
tutelage of MICA
Membership  voluntary basis; approximately 3,000 members (2,000 in Conakry), among whom a
number of Professional Organizations
Organizations General Assembly (Assemblee Consulaire): comprises 101 delegates (70 initially elected
and subsequently an additional 30 co-opted on a regional basis and the President); meets
at least twice a year and elects the Executive Committee every four years
Executive Committee (Bureau Executif): 19 members all elected (except the President and
Secretary General of the Chamber who are appointed by the President of the Republic,
the latter on an exceptional basis) and all private operators working for CCIAG on an
unpaid basis (except the Secretary General); elects 4 Vice-Presidents among its members
and meets once a month and/or at the request of the President
Permanent staff: 14, 11 of whom are professionals including the Secretary General; 5 of
the latter are currently civil servants seconded from and remunerated by their respective
Ministries: MICA (3), MARA (1), MPCI (1); the remainder are hired on a private
contractual basis
Local branches: 36; all managed by private operators; each branch is usually composed
of a President, a Vice-President and a Treasurer (on an unpaid basis) and a Secretary
Role        in line with a Chamber's traditional responsibilities, i.e.: establishment of dialogue
between members, representation as a spokesman for the private sector vis-a-vis the
Government, and promotion of -le private sector at both national and international levels
Ressources   current only source of income: initial entry fees subscribed by members and some private
contributions on a voluntary basis; CCIAG has no budget for equipment or for
promotional activities
Assitance    UNIDO (US$337,000 UNDP funded) covering training, technical assistance and
computer equipment; USAID: training programs, study trips, participation in
international fairs
Intemational  CCIAG is connected to other Chambers of Commerce both in the sub-region and
relationships  abroad



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
National Agricultural Export Promotion project
Chamber of Commerce. Industry and Agriculture of Guinea (CCIAG)
Appendix 2. Proposed Changes under the Proj-1
1.    New statutes (a) election of the President of the Chamber by the Consular Assembly
(Assemblde Consulaire). This clause, although provided by the current (1985) statutes of the
Chamber, has not been enforced, for reasons due to circumstances and on a temporary basis; (b)
appointment of the Secretary General by the Executive Conimittee, through competitive selection
based on objective criteria of both competence and experience; (c) private employee status for
all permanent staff; and (d) admission of foreigners at all levels of CCIAG.
2.    Enhanced responsibilities: (a) promoting the Private Sector and defending the latter's
interests vis-a-vis the Government; (b) assisting private Guinean operators to establish
partnerships with external investors to secure technical expertise, market outlets and/or funding
for their export businesses; and (c) organizing training programs for the Pri-vate Sector in general
and exporters in particular. The corresponding capacity building would be secured primarily
through: (a) 'twinning" arrangement with a foreign Chamber of Commerce located on a target
market for Guinean products; this arrangement would include technical assistance; (b) provision
of operating facilities and (c) training for the Chamber's staff.
3.    Adequate financial resources: CCIAG would be granted "centimes additionnels" (a
parafiscal tax levied on turnover) on a regular basis, this providing resources for the Chamber's
operational and promotional costs. CCIAG would also generate additional and increasing
resources through admittance fees from new members, membership fees and payment of services
by private operators. The Chamber's budgetary forecasts for operational, promotional and
investment costs reflect declining Project funding and gradual increase of CCIAG own financial
participation, with the objective of complete by project.
4.    New oryanizational structure: The Chamber would incorporate a new, Export Promotion
Division, including three specialized sections: (a) Technical Export Standards dealing the with
identification of exporters and exportable I roducts and specification of export standards; (b)
Foreign Trade Regulations and Procedure-,  - -ticularly with reference to access to target markets
for Guinean exports; and (c) Business Partnerships, in charge of both business and joint venture
opportunities on foreign markets. A One-Stop Window for export procedures would also be
domiciled at the CCIAG as an independent unit under the Export Promotion Division.



National Agriculturtl Exoort Prolect
Guinean Chamber of Comerco. Industry and AEricultttt (CIA)
Chart 1. Orsnlzatlonal Chart
SECRETlY GEUIL
CENTRAL
SECRETMRIATj.
GENERAL
SERVICES
FI   .                       .         .. .. .. .. .....
ADMINISTRATIVE            STUDIES,                    EXPORT                 ECONOMIC                   LEGAL                                                co
AND FIKANCIAL             INFORMATION                 PROMOTION              PROMOTION AND              DIVISION
DIVISION         I        AND DOCLUHENTATIOW   -----.  DIVISION         ... DEVELWPHENT
DIVI ISbN                  IDIVISIONi
L--------------------                           ................... ....DVSe
TRADE AND           TRAINING            INDUSTRY            AGRICUTURE
SERVICES             SECTION            SECTION            AND CRAFTS
SECTION                                                     SECTION
|~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SC                                                                                     I
New structure to be created under the project
(see, next Organizatlal Chart)
OQ



National ALricultural Export Prolect
The Gufnean Chamber of Commeree. Industry and Aaricultur. (CCIAG)
Chart 2. Pr^osed Export Pranotian Divison
STUDIES;                   EXPORT                           ECO0IMIC
INFORMATION                PROMOTION                        PROOTION AND
AND                _... I DIVISION             .........   DEVELOPMENT
DOClUIENTAIION                                              DIVISION
DIVISION
..................                                          ..... .............
| fE-STOP
TECHIUICAL                         FOREIGII TRADE                      BUIIIESS
STANDARDS                          REGULATIOIIS                       PMTKERSH IPS
SECTIO                             AN1  D PROCEDURES                  SECTION1
p.
a       -



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURE EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Presentation of Professional Organizations
A.    Overview
1.           In the export sectors concerned by the project, most of the existing professional
organizations have been created only recently and still have weak operative capacity. The main
organizations are: (a) in the fruit and veaetable sector, four associations have been formed: (i) CLIFEL,
the Interprofessional Liaison Committee for Fruits and Vegetables; (i) the Federation of Horticulturists,
which deals with fruits, vegetables and flowers; (iii) AGRIFEL, the Federation of Fruit and Vegetable
Processors; and (iv) REFLEG, a Union of Fruit and Vegetable Exporters; (b) in the coffee/cocoa sector,
three associations have been launched: {i) the Union of Coffee/Cocoa Producers; ii) the Professional
Association of Coffee and Cocoa Exporters (APEC); and (iii) the Coffee/Cocoa Interprofessional
Committee, which has given birth to a Permanent Technical Secretariat, domiciled at the Chamber of
Commerce; and (c) in the fishino sector: the National Union of Guinean Fishermen, grouping together
both industrial and non industrial fishing.
2.           With the exception of CLIFEL, REFLEG, the Fishermen's Union and the Federation of
Horticulturists, most of these organizations remain in an embryonic state and are yet to become fully
operational. All have written statutes - often of a oifferent type - which have been filed for registration
with the National Directorate for Decentralization (DND). Each of these associations was created
under the auspices and is a member of the Chamber of Commerce. Professional organizations have
also been established in other sectors of activity, such as the National Road Transporters National
Union (UNTRG), the Guinean Association of Women Entrepreneurs (AFEG) and the Guinean Union of
Businesswomen (GFAG).
3.           The common objectives of these associations are to : a) represent and defend the
interests of their members; b) act as a lobby vis-a-vis the authorities; and c) contribute to the
organization of their respective sub-sectors at each stage of the export chain: production, post-
harvesting, processing, packaging, transport and marketing. The Chamber of Commerce has an
important role to play in favor of these professional organizations by : a) fostering their creation; and
b) supporting their activities, with a view to ensuring both vertical complementarity within each sector
and horizontal linkage across sectors.
B.    Interorofessional Liaison Committee (CLIFEL)
4.           The Comite de Liaison Interprofessionnel des Fruits et Legumes was created in April
1991 under the aegis of the Chamber of Commerce. The objective of this Committee is to serve as
interface between the profession (producers, processors and exporters of fresh and processed
fruits/vegetables on one hand, and carfiers, forwarders and other participants in the export process and
the authorities on the other hand. The Committee also acts as official spokesman of the Fruit and
Vegetable sector vis-a-vis foreign professionals (e.g. the EEC affiliated COLEACP).  CLIFEL
encompasses the whole horticultural profession and consists of three separate groups : (a) the
production group, represented by the Guinean Federation of Horticulturists; (b) the export group which
will be represented by REFLEG provided the latter succeeds in regrouping all the fruit and vegetable
exporters together; and (c) the processing group, represented by the Federation of Fruit and Vegetable
Processors IAGRIFEL). Each of these member Associations appoints delegates to CLIFEL who elects
an Executive Committee. The first constituent assembly of CLIFEL was held on April 25, 1991.



- 51 -
Annex 3
Paae 2 of 2
C.    Federation of Horticulturists
5.           The Federation of Horticulturists was initially created in 1986 under the name of Fruit
Federation, by the fruit producers of the former official cooperatives (mainly of pineapples and
mangoes in the maritime region), as a private cooperative association recognized by the DND. The
Federation's name was recently altered in order to include producers of vegetables and flowers. The
objective of the Federation is to promote the following groups of activities: (a) production, processing,
transport, storage and marketing of agricultural products originating exclusively from cooperatives; (b)
supply of inputs and equipment required for farm production, including seeds, fertilizers, transport and
agricultural equipment; (c) acquisition, construction and equipment of buildings, workshops and
warehouses; (d) access to agricultural credit which can be granted to the Federation; and (e) more
generally, all economic, social and training activities in line with the cooperatives' objectives. One of
the major unions within the Federation is the Prefectoral Union of Kindia Cooperatives, which groups
together eight fruit cooperatives and three cooperatives of vegetable producers. These cooperatives
benefit from a long tradition of cooperative activity and have well defined statutes. They have over
one thousand members, with over 15,000 ha of farming land, and representing a potential in excess
of 100,000 tons of fruit and vegetables.
D.    Union of Fruit and Venetable Exvorts (REFLEG)
6.           The Regroupement des Exportations de Fruits et Legumes de Guin6e was created in
1987 on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce. Its statutes were registered in 1990 as a private
non-profit organization. REFLEG's objectives are to: (a) propose and implement all measures and
actions aimed at developing the production and exports of fruit and vegetable export activities; in this
regard, it aims to act as main government counterpart representing the private sector; (b) establish and
promote a quality label on foreign markets, disseminate amongst its members packaging not ms and
quality required on the international markets; (c) negotiate with the producers, on an annual basis,
farmgate prices for major export speculations; (d) negotiate with carriers (road, air and sea) freight
capacity and rates for each campaign; (e) negotiate at best possible price the purchase of equipment
and packaging material essential to the members' activities; (f) seek grants and loans from donors and
financial institutions; and (g) inform and train its members in cooperation with national and international
promotion institutions, in all fields related to production and marketing.
7.           REFLEG is composed of thirteen private export companies. During the 1989-1990
export campaign, REFLEG claims that its members exported close to 2,800 tons of fruit, out of a total
of 3,000 tons official exports.
E.    The Guinean Association of Women Entreoreneurs (AFEG)
8.           The Association de Femmes Entrepreneurs de Guinee is a non-goveMment organization
of a socio-economic type created in 1987. AFEG's objective is to regroup on a free and voluntary
basis, women entrepreneurs, with a focus on training and strengthening of their productive activities.
AFEG specifically aims at: (a) fostering the development and ensuring co-ordination of women's
production initiatives, in order to promote activities at grass-root level; (b) study and establish action
plans designed to improve production; (c) present these action plans to donors for funding; (d) organize
training seminars on management, marketing and production; and (e) encourage exchange of
experience with other women's organizations both in Guinea and abroad. AFEG claims to have over
370 members and has opened branches in Kindia, Mamou and Lab&. It has already implemented a
variety of activities, particularly in training, participation in national and international trade fairs,
creation of professional sub-groups and setting-up of small processing and preserving units for
vegetables, fruits and other agricultural products, some of which for export.



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT (PCPEA)
Letter of Aaricultural Exoort Development Policy (LPDEA)
The Government of the Republic of Guinea has prepared a Letter of Agricultural
Export Development Policy (Lettre de Politiaue de D6veloopement des Exoortations Aaricoles -
LPDEA) which has involved close co-operation between the Guinean ministries/institutions
(public and private) concerned, and with the donors. This Letter is a follow-up of the Letter
of Agricultural Development Policy (Lettre de Politiaue de Dovelogoement Aaricole - LPDA,
September 1991) and deals specifically with the agricultural export sub-sector. Its overall
objective is to define a development strategy for agricultural exports, including the policy
measures to be taken in order to create/improve the incentives framework in this sector. It
serves as basis for the conditionality and for implementation of the PCPEA, the latter being the
instrument for supplying the means to remove the constraints to exports and support the
Government's strategy.
The LPDEA (I) is part of the national adjustment program and (Il) maps out a
strategy and attendant measures designed to eliminate the main constraints to agricultural
exports.
-.    THE LPDEA IS PART OF THE NATIONAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Under the national adjustment program, the Government has agreed to the
following reforms that affect the agricultural export sector.
A.    Macro-economic. These measures implemented since 1986 focus on: (a)
disengaging the State from productive sectors and streamlining the public sector; (b) assisting
the emergence of a liberal economy, particularly through implementation of realistic exchange
rate, interest rate, price and trade policies; (c) redressing fiscal and balance of payments
disequilibria; (d) reorganizing the banking sector; and (e) adopting a new investment code. In
addition, the Government has launched a large investmemn program, particularly to address the
need of basic infrastructure.
B.    Private sector. Reforms specifically related to the private sector E e addressed
mainly under the Private Sector Promotion Program IPSPP) which is currently being
implemented by the Government with the assistance of the World Bank. The PSPP aims at
supporting a series of reforms intended to improve the general investment climate in Guinea.
Its objective is to assist in setting up a regulatory, incentives and institutional framework
designed to improve the business environment and encourage local and foreign investments
in productive sectors.
Under the PSPP, the Government has agreed to: (a) simplify the legal and
regulatory framework (procedures for the creation and registration of companies; liberalization
of work regulations; enforcement of private property regulations, particularly with respect to
commercial real estate); (b) increase efficiency of the overall incentives set-up (by enforcing
the new customs and investment regulations; eliminating distortions concerning advantages
granted outside the scope of the Investment Code; streamlining the Customs Department);



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
(c) improve efficiency of the investment promotion Institutional framework; and (d) upgrade
financial policy and operational framework (by reforming the interest rate in order to increase
resource mobilization at local bank level; rationalizing the credit system; improving the
regulatory and judiciary environment of banking operations and reinforcing BCRG's follow-up
capacity of the banking system).
C.    Aaricultural sector. The Government's general strategic orientations and
adjustment measures in the agricultural sector are presented in a Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy (LPDA) (September 1991). The LPDA is a policy document that is meant
to serve as a comprehensive framework for the development of the agricultural sector
(including agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry and fishing). It aims specifically at: (a)
defining the major development orientations in the sector consistent with the national priorities;
(b) establishing a program of actions, including the required regulatory and institutional
measures and specific operations in support of these measures; and (c) proposing projects to
be incorporated into the 'rolling' Public Investment Program (PIP). The LPDA was designed
with a view to be completed by other Letters of Development Policy in a number of specific
sub-sectors such as agricultural exports.
Under the LPDA the Government agrees to five sets of strategic options and
attendant measures to be taken: (a) privatization, liberalization, and State disengagement; (b)
decentralization, emergence of producers' associations and local communities, transfer of
responsibilities to local collectivities; (c) food security, revival and diversification of exports;
(d) economic and financial equilibria; and (e) rehabilitation of the productive basis and
protection of the environment.
II.    THE LPDEA DEFINES THE STRATEGY AND MEASURES TO PROMOTE AGRICULTURAL
EXPORTS
The Government's strategy regarding agricultural exports aims at: (a) creating
an enabling environment for exports at regulatory, institutional and operational levels; and (b)
eliminating or reducing the specific constraints prevailing in each export sub-sector (fruits and
vegetables, fishing, industrial crops - coffee, cocoa, rubber, cotton, etc.). A golicy and oroiect
activity matrix for the agricultural export sector is attached. This matrix lists the constraints
that have been identified, the policy measures and actions already taken, the policy measures
and actions to be taken, together with the main institutions concerned and the activities
anticipated under on-going projects and programs.
A.    The main strateoic orientations
With view to promoting agricultural exports, the Government agrees to the
following strategic orientations: (a) at the institution level, to support the professional
organizations (including the Chamber of Commerce for its export-related activities), as key
vehicles for institutional development in the private sector; (b) at the groduction level apart
form cotton and rubber which are being developed under fili6re-typeo projects, to focus efforts
on coffee and, in the horticultural sub-sector, on fresh pineapple and mangoes, as they are the
only products than can be relied upon to generate the critical mass needed to give impetus to
the export sector; a second priority should be the industrial production of fruit pulp (mango and
passion fruit) and fruit juice, to take advantage of side products that cannot be exported fresh;
(c) at the commercial level to export products of high quality, mostly to the West-European
market; a second priority should be market diversification to take advantage of (i) profitable
commercial niches for certain products (e.g. ginger, cherry tomatoes, cut flowers, chilies,
sences of perfume, etc.) whose market is small, but lucrative and fast-expanding, {ii) emerging
new markets (sub-regional markets, Eastern Europe, some Middle-East countries, etc.) for
lower quality products, and (iii) off-season markets (e.g. quality vegetables during the winter);



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
(d) at the manaaement level. to target the smaliholders and the Small/Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) which are considered the agents for the long-term development of the sector; in the
short-to-medium term, support should also be given a priority to the nucleus estates which are
better equipped to generate the critical mass of production and can be relied upon to provide
extension to surrounding outgrowers; and (e) at the aeneral operational level to provide the
required support services still to be established in Guinea (research, extension, credit, access
roads, etc.) which eventually will become the responsibility of the beneficiaries.
To implement the above strategy, the Govemment agrees to take the measures
listed in the attached matrix and presented below.
B.    The reaulatory, fiscal and administrative environment
In order to create an enabling environment for agricultural exports, the
Govemment agrees to take the measures in the following areas:
(a) Exchanae reaulations. The compulsory remittance of foreign currency
eamings by exporters to the authorities, the ban on foreign currency accounts and restricted
quotas for foreign currency allocated for trade missions are viewed as constraints by exporters
(Matrix Section Al).
(b) Customs reculations. Regulations related to the temporary importation of
inputs intended to be re-exporte I (particularly packaging material) are not consistently enforced
(Matrix Section A2).
(c) Land reaulations. The lack of land ownership rights deprives private
operators of collateral for bank loans (Matrix Section A3U.
(d) Export orocedures. Private operators confront complex and burdensome
(therefore costly) administrative export procedures. These procedures in addition have to be
completed in a variety of institutions (Matrix Section 61).
(e) Non-enforcement of enacted measures. The Government does not have
the means and/or the will to enforce and see to the effective follow-up of enacted regulations,
thus contributing to the deterioration of the general business climate (Matrix Part A).
C.    The institutional framework
The Govemment agrees to revamp and strengthen the operationai capacity of
key institutions responsible for representing and/or promoting the interests and activities of the
private sector, particularly in the field of agricultural exports. This regards inter alia:
(a) The Chamber of Commerce ICCIAG). The CCIAG is currently the only
Institution emanating directly from and representing the Guinean private operators. The
Govemment agrees (i) to give adequate statutes to CCIAG to guarantee its independence vis-a-
vis the Government and means commensurate with the need to perform its role as a catalyst
for private initiative and to foster dialogue between the Govemment and private operators, and
(ii) to give specific responsibilities with respect to export promotion, information on foreign
markets and training (Matrix Section 82).
(b) Professional Organizations. Most of the Professional Organizations that
currently exist in export sub-sectors have been created recently and are in embryonic state.
The Govemment agrees that (i) they be strengthened and that they operate freely  lii) new
ones should be created in export sub-sectors that are not yet structured, (iii) Interprofessional



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
Committees be created for each type of activity (production, processing, and marketing) so
that inter-sectorial "horizontal" links be organized, and (iv) the Chamber of Commerce would
be used to foster the emergence of these organizations (Matrix Section B3).
(c) Cooperatives. The cooperative movement is still in embryo. The
Government agrees (i) to foster the development of independent and operationally-oriented
cooperatives, (ii) to assist them to increase their organizational and manigement capacity,
Oiii) to make the Cooperatives Development Project (Projet de Developpement du Mouvement
Cooperatif en Guinee-PDMCG) operational, and (iv) to delineate MARA's and SED's
responsibilities regarding agricultural cooperatives (Matrix Section B4).
(d) Financial intermediation. In this field there is a two pronged deficiency: (i)
a lack of equity funds in the hands of Guinean investors, and (ii) insufficient access to financial
services and credit in rural areas. The Government agrees to take the required measures in
these two areas (Matrix Part C).
D.    The onerational environment
Guinean exporters are confronting constraints -- both of a general and technical
nature - that prevent the development of their export businesses. The Government agrees to
take the required measures to remove these constraints.
(a) The aeneral constraints are related to the business climate in Guinea, which
is insufficiently conducive to the development of private sector activities (exports in particular).
The Government agrees to foster a climate of confidence in order to stimulate Guinean private
investments, and to attract and retain foreign investors. The government notes that this is all
the more important that the revival of agricultural exports relies on the active participation of
foreign private partners from whom is expected technical, financial and commercial support,
together with the necessary credibility to give impetus to exports (Matrix Part A and Section
61 mainly).
(b) The technical constraints are present at every stage of the export
industries. They concern inter alia production technology (improved varieties, phyto-sanitary
control, etc.), extension, post-harvesting, storage, processing, transport and marketing. As
regards transport the excessive cost of both domestic and international transport is a strong
handicap to exporters. Furthermore, adequate solutions will need to be found to address the
specific problem related to inputs, regarding both financing and organization of a distribution
network. The Government agrees to take appropriate action to remedy the above situation
(Matrix Section D).



-                         -56-                           Annec4
dl       j                   Page 5 of 7
iII       I
I             ii
Ii
I             hIl
I
I    Ii jFr
1             Vi
I           III'
U                                 -
2                   I-      ''
I           I
I           ii   ii 1111 n
=
I                 3
U
* I
II!      I    I    I f
iI      1    1
III      I'        U           I
IIj      Ii   I    f Ji        I
ii       U!                    t
III!                           I
p
ii    Iii
11         i                   I
HI           If                    1                 4.
11    1 1I                                              I
''jill   'iii                                         I
iiiI.   -     -  Ii
Ill  iiI'            I                  I
ii               'II
C



VATIONAL AGRICULTURAt EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT (PCPEAI
rouCY AND PROJECT ACTIVITY MATRIX foR THE AGRICULTURAL EXPORT *ECTOR  DCl)
CONsTAfTAST                         POLICY MEASURES ANDIOR ACTONS                  RPOtOCy  JASUJES ANJKR ACrS                          IECT ACTIVTE
TAltEN                                      TO BE TAKEN
IL NSTllUTi MAl.lt Wd0
S.                             14 of C>A6I
* Lack of opeat th ctabti                       Deie o pwafiecd avwus of CCA- Enu  atonomy an strangdbaningo toe Oni _PoIng CCIAG hr
* iwufts antonomy W4s+h -Ihb  Bovsiwumt         rcsnta s addidomwls'l; application cendldon    CCOIAby                                      . spec.ba_d techrilod aslisw   I  tr*
* istulficlmnt finalcdl tnOurce. ah paica no    currently weder exaiation                      elwting am  hoaen   PrsIdment by the           adtes. in pwtdlcer adItare bw settlig W.
pue-litesal evanus such as 'Catlaes        - Fi li utot CoCWAG                               Consad  Assambly                                  a  inniot   on4 an              st
atl-tllnnels                                 instutonhzanld uvy of CCIAW  end Initial        ehnging spoymwnt stats of CCIAO staff             mast
* SubstantWad endalftess                       ratdnalalo of exitig intitutional irawxek       fom dol sva nts to points aompoys                 a 'aastop we*dove for sxpt fbam_sb
Drat new statuts for CCIAG                    .  relding the Setay Osral tiunugh                  a W*  to sIppn Prakasione
compettve mnbcing                                 O0 _nssig.
pshig all CClAWs dbst                             a 4* V Iselr sass
* at activ $110001,atio btl   Guido"e        * shablilteion ot de Oambse's hssdilohtare
addioti   IMCA. MEFI                          anc  spl aft aOf dce e* 
ma*eshuinvid  -erf -as liobailln
-_- bashas 
e      -_   ob ts e
inadqusta nd hstaogani* st gratuda             Creatln of uVtd profetsdondl organ4adta      * Ensue autonomy fw Ptofainad Orgdti          * Te     a addsme tU*n  insli s_pwu
Lack of inted     wIth tm Goverment             _dr the auspics of CCAG                       Adopt standd sttutes                            ae CCIAG; meothan at opeat  and
- Weak opeathi  apact                                                                        - No  vswmnu  iearce In slh   omtlog            tnib  _m
wt opeatn of pofslea" otsg_anladoo
4.                                                                                    . EiJ,th6D
* Urnitd number of coopwatives               - Dfing of a nw Cooperativ Law          ,       * SIgnatr of Coopat  Law and pplct-on           OperatI  support to davpMt of expogt-
- Weak operatin capacty                        AgrasAmnt On liing the dovernen                  derea                                        ed   coopeaivs IKWDCO)
b Inadequ atealfl  nwork.                    rposblltto poly development nd technical  - Appropdate delinetion of SED and MAfA             Assitnce to SED oSwtlthrw delpmet o
suppoSt                                        respondbitles rewrdIn coopeative pmon          egudaty kam du statiss. mvay aN
nd etnsion activites IMARA, SED)              registratn  o ooprav  rSEACI
'lTl  mama of h     t hI  inbdiod giy If actholtes do not cmcm   t PCiEA.
-_                                                                                        -                                                                                          4 Iwlit
'ft



|NATIONAL AOSUTURAL EXPORT PROMOTIO POECT
POIC  AND PROJECT ACTNI  MATRIX FOR THE AMCITURAC EXPORT SECTOR ICTO
,.~~~~~~~~~mmANAM                                                       POLICY SEASS ANDlpMR[A ACM  
CONSILIN                                          TAKEN                                  TO K TAKEN               qRiECT ACIMIES
C. ~                                  ,.                                                                                                 ..Ct_
* L 4 i**ft h*                                    i&md WON awwammie  smd wir_ of ais         * Cahe.td d.hgm 'IS .aaurna tP            fauUim 0w .A"    5"
*Lea of a Iundmd  -ame.                                                                       brpwmais es itd Omid..edud              T. ldedd Aedimmas toS WAG    I
~y        ides. hdww SNm . '  ind byhk       admamue
* kmAdmw        Ia bidi adere kiw  .a.mmimddee id .eanddameswhimie1. a.logau                                     *io  sod. a6 MOMge k.mm  Cewapad.
*w d_d "ap4d htw_d gmpsde imm"                                                                                 cmpmr pdinD*_
t*Iss. at aiSy gew mg4om    idgb -   Id eapld                                                                                            .6 waf Nid saidma hud
kuiue~~~ *_Au _la aNqam _Ur AdeSU
.cdon phn to                                        _t ftkib a tb
D. T        1"WA C.IM
l.?t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*a a.Q|i
* Leiedeic baww how mi       h I    6am- '.dmu  - Oweeta.MARAwm e mdsmw          de .         Fev. spedidk      _ muw, m u           swtm    _t  wu La Id -  _IX
ltwed      g   Ilawdmd rech wid              _w k      I        _e  td w - had.daad P-educ  b _aide ecat . o S _ad  fs_m aa
. t_n   _N a_bd- wean"                              dUou4 NVA ad                                                                                           g
.     a daa    own d eupwa.                                                                                                            swat I . eso MA NW   Ie _phidn
br*b.At ami. aki oa.eaesreuwaw
a. swenoftoendmustift                                                                          pdky. _sge  w Oh            d _ d _
* Lack. bhgg. ofdI eanuarw ei asopatmates                                                                                              A=dMa so pso&"ede Laa. 4  iwSBlb
, P.m pi #aeecbpadsb la1I  c_i .eis *adia. ,wa* go. Abes _iaaea'C
* Loa of C"i WNqe capisy a.at PMid .bpe                                                        uidwg*o edida' riavat umala ai pei      Capaidmi
.Acmet srait  ma h pa so baeFb   ami" a bid  madam. PMP lESM
U s. wa.peai kezpaemid eW"s*.mRa"%tusd   &M                                                                                           ?ltbedftm ad asio too&
Tuars ,  li US       EC l5
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   n__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ' *
.,4



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Resident Technical Assistants
1.           National Coordinator (nationally recruited)
Title/Accountable to: National Coordinator of the PCPEA, Head of the Project Management Unit,
reporting to the Minister of Planning.
Location/Duration: Conakry. Frequent visits up-country and occasional trips abroad. Five-year
appointment.
Resoonsibililin: National Coordinator (NC) to assume the task of project management as specified in
the project management contract (contract to provide in particular for full delegation of authority over
project implementation up to US$ 150,000). In this connection, NC to be responsible of all operational
aspects of project implementation, and, more broadly, of the monitoring of the regulatory and
institution framework of the agricultural export sector. NC to be specifically responsible for the follow-
up of the project institutional components (Chamber of Commerce and professional organizations), as
well as important dossiers in which the Government is involved in various capacities. To the above
effect, NC to assure liaison with technical departments and professional organizations responsible for
policy-making in the agricultural export sector, and interface with donors intervening in the sector.
Lastly, NC to be responsible for preparing semestrial progress reports, as well as Mid-Term Review in
PY3.
Qualifications: Agro-economist, with at least 10 years of experience of project or corporate
management in the field of rural development or agricultural export promotion.
2.           Technical Coordinator (nationally recruited)
Title/Accountable to: Technical Coordinator of the PCPEA, reporting to the National Coordinator of
PCPEA.
Location/Duration: Conakry. Very frequent visits up-country and periodic trips abroad. Five-year
appointment.
Responsibilities: Technical Coordinator (TC) to assume the task of supervising the project production
(research, extension, SME promotion, access roads) and financial intermediation components (Mutual
Credit and Private Investment Fund). TC to be also responsible of project Monitoring and Evaluation
activities, as well as preparation of technical supervision reports of the components which he will
supervise. TC to liaise, for relevant technical matters, with all other projects and private operators
established in the agricultural export sector.
Qualifications: Agricultural Economist or agriculturalist with at least ten years of experience in
technical project or corporate management in the rural development or agricultural export promotion
sectors, as well as knowledge and experience of private investment financing techniques.
3.           Institution Soecialist (internationally recruited)
Title/Accountable to: Advisor to the National Coordinator, reporting to the latter.



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Location/Duration: Conakry, with visits tci local L ranches of the Chamber of Commerce and
professional organizations, and occasional trips abroad to accompany delegations. Three-year
appointment.
Resoonsibilities:  support the Chamber of Commerce and professional organizations from
administrative, legal and operational standpoints, with a view to assisting their emergence/
establishment, reinforcing their operational capacity, strengthening their ability to promote the private
sector, and improving their effective role/ image as a catalyst for economic development and
instrument for dialogue with authorities. The expert would focus on export promotion, as a new
service to be developed for the benefit of private operators. His/her job would involve substantial
training for the Chamber's and professional organizations' staff on one hand and private sector
operators on the other.
Qualifications: Senior professional with expertise on chambers of commerce and/or professional
organizations, with at least ten years of experience (Experience in Africa would be highly desirable).
4.            Small and Medium Enterorises (SMEs) specialist (Internationally recruited)
Title/Accountable to: Advisor for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) at the Project Management
Unit. Reporting to the National Coordinator.
Location/Duration: Conakry, with visits within the country and occasional missions in the sub-region
and abroad. Three-year appointment.
ResDonsibilities: (a) provide support as needed to SMEs both for their establishment and for their
current management (from technical, administrative/financial and commercial viewpoints). SMEs
supported will be both production and service related; (b) coordinate the specialized studies and short-
tern consultant missions carried out under the project that relate to SME development; (c) assist in
the search tor potential partners for Guinean SMEs and subsequent establishment of partnerships
between them; (d) follow up and coordinate the different agricultural and agro-industrial components
as they impact on SME development; and (e) assist in the management of the Pilot Action Fund and
in particular vet proposals established by SMEs prior to approval, and supervise implementation of
these projacts thereafter.
Qualifications: Senior agronomist with large experience in export crops, preferably acquired in the
private sector. Ten years of experience, with minimum of five years in Africa, preferably in the field.
5.            Research Specialist (Internationally recruited)
Title/Accountable to: Advisor for fruit research at IRAG Fruit and Vegetable Division, reporting to the
General Director of IRAG.
Location/Duration: Foulaya with frequent short-term missions within the country and to Conakry.
Three-year appointment with possibility of extension. This position would be funded by the French
FAC.
Resoonsibilities: Assist in implementation of the Fruit and Vegetable Division at IRAG; design and
equip offices and laboratories, recruit and train employees; set up of the fruit research programs, in
close cooperation with professional organizations, nucleus estates and the Agricultural Extension
project (PNVA); subsequently assist in the implementation of these programs.
Qualifications: Senior Agronomist (with fruit specialty ) with at least ten years of expdrience in field
of expertise, of which five in Africa. The expert would be seconded from and back-stopped by a large
Organization specialized in Tropical Agriculture Research.
6.            Horticultural Technician (Internationally recruited)



- 61 -
Annx 5
Page 3 of 3
TitlelAccountable to: Advisor at IRAG Fruit and Vegetable Division, reporting to the Director of IRAG
through the Director of the Foulaya Research Center.
LocationlDuration: Foulaya with frequent short-term missions within the country and to Conakry;
three-year approintment.
Responsibilities: (a) advise in the design of a program of adaptive research trials for fruits and
vegetables, with focus on project areas; (b) subsequently provide assistance in the implementation of
this program; and (c) train counterpart staff in the area of field experiments. These responsibilities will
involve close contacts with nucleus estates, cooperatives and the PNVA, with a view to defining
contracts/conventions with them to establish the trials. Special attention will be devoted to
establishing an operational team of technicians within the Foulaya Center with capacity to undertake
research trials in the field.
Qualifications: Agricultural Technician/Agronomist with at least ten years of experience in adaptive
research for horticultural crops, of which at least half acquired in Africa in the field.
7.           Producer Groups/Coogeratives Snecialist (Initernationally recruited)
Title/Accountable to: Advisor to the Director of the Cooperative Development Project (PDMCG),
reporting to the latter.
Location/Duration: Kindia, with frequent trips to Conakry and the six project prefectures in Maritime
and Middle Guinea. Three-year appointment.
Responsibilities: Assist the PDMCG Director in implementing the PDMCG field activities, with focus
on product marketing and financial/ administrative management. His/her duties will include assistance
to the selection of the cooperatives to be supported by the PDMCG, support for the establishment of
the cooperatives selected (legal statutes, organizational structure, etc.) and assistance to
establishment/implementation of administrative and financial management systems. He/she will also
vet requests for funding under the Pilot Action Fund emanating from cooperatives. Subsequentely,
he/she will establish a system to monitor the activities of the cooperatives selected and contribute to
more general studies aimed at defining ways to market the cooperatives production. As part of his/her
duties, the expert will have to undertake the training of the PDMCG's field staff. He/she will work in
close relationship with the staff of the Agricultural Extension project (PNVA) that will deal with
cooperatives production activities.
Qualifications: Senior specialist of producer groups/cooperative management, with solid knowledge
of marketing and administrative/financial systems. At least ten years of experience in that field, of
which five years in Africa.



- 62 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PRCY40TION PROJECT
PRIVATE INVESTMENT F|N
Table 1. List of Potential Investrtnt Prolects
Total Costs l/             Equity needed
Number            -------- -
GNF billion        US, million      USS million
TwaJ if Project
New Project                      19                 40.3               57.6            26.9
Extension/rehabilitation         11                 15.4               22.0             7.3
Extenwion fottlowing debt
restructuring                   5                  4.0                7.0             2.9
Total                   398                                                   37.1
Sectors of Activity
Agro-Industry (export)           13                 17.7               25.3             8.1
Fishing                           2                  2.5                3.5             1.8
Mining                           51                  4.3               20.4            12.8
inputs/Packing iteriat            2                  0.7                1.0             i.0
Storage                           2                 10.1               14.5             5.3
Iuport/substitution               6                  7.1               10.2             4.3
Other                             5                  7.3               10.4             4.2
Total                   35                 59.7               85.3            37.1
*/ Not including revolving fiuMd



- 63 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUIE
NATIONAL AMICUtTURAL EXPORI PRONUTION PROJECT
Private Investment Fund
Processina Chart
Selection of Fund Promoter
( through short-list cometitive bidding) 
Signature of                               Signature of
lot Stbsidiary Loan agreinterim contract
Estabtishment of Fund Management Campany
(majority participation of Fund Prxmoter)
Signature of 2nd subsidiary                             Signature of five-year
Loan Agreement                                management/services contract
Upon first disbursement of funds under Loan Agreement,
Nanagement Company starts operating
I
Establishment of Investment Fund
(mobilization of capital from private Guinean investors,
private foreign investors, institutional investors, and
debt/equity swaps)
Signature of long-term management contract between
Management Company and Investment Fund



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Private Investment Fund (Ct'd)
Tablo 2. Estimated Ocerating Budget of the Fund Manasement Conmoan
C000s, constant 1991 USS)
...................................................................
93/94       94/95        95/96      96/97       97/98      Total
PY1         PY2          PY3        PY4         PYS
1. Oeratins Revenues
1. Mnagement Fees                 38          113          150        150        150        601
2. Cameission on Dividonds         0            5           16         53         63         137
3. Commission on Capital Gains    -             -                       -           -          -
4. Advisory Services               9           29           42         46         51         177
Total                    47         147           207        228        251        880
:1. Goeratina Exoenes
1. Foreign Personnel             300         300           300        300        300       1.500
2. Local Personnel                40          40            40         40         40         200
3. Rent                           36           36           36         36         36         180
4. Equipment and Vehicles        127           31           31         69         31         289
5. Travel                         20           20           20         20         20         100
Total                   523         427          427         465        427      2,269
Operating Deficit           (476)        (280)        (220)      (237)      (176)    (1,389)
3/ The financial projections are based on a target capitalization of S5 million fully paid-in by
year 3. end on break-even cash flow assumptions for the management company achieved at the end of
year 7 It is assumed that the average project in the investment portfolio will ear an annual 12
percent on equity. and that capital gains will be realized after an average investment period of 7
years, with investments sold for 2 times retained earnings. The table does not include costs to be
incurred by the selected Fund Manager (12 man-months) prior to the formal establishment of the
Private Investment Fund. The yearly cost estimtes represent a S-year average of total costs in
constant dollar.



REPUBLIC OF GUIIFA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PRONOTION PROJECT
su nmry Acwunt by Project Coaponant
GSF million
Institut  Cha br   Profess                      Small/md                            Private   Project Project               Physical        Price
ton sup.    of      lonaI           Adaptive    Enterpri Coopera  Access  CrEdit  Investa   Hansmg     Prep.           Contingencies  Contingencies
Contact   Comrce   Org.    Ext. Research          sea      tives     Roads Nutual  ent Fund       nt   Facility  Total          I            X
1. INYSTIENT COSTS
A. CIvit  wrks                    0       72         0      10       10            0        0       3214       0        0        0       0       3405       1S             16
B Vehicles                       26       52        83      82       55           23      125          0      52        0       95       0        593       10             a
C. gods *nd Equipmnt              0      100       103      13      330            0       8S          a       0        0        0       0        631       10             5
0. Technicel Assistance
1. Short Term Cosultents         4        0       47      117      371          164       81          0       0      214        0       0       1435       10            13
2. Residnt Experts             487        0         0       0      838          467      389          0       0        0        0       0       2181        0             9
_.........   ...................... ........  ........  .............................................................................................
Sib-total                       928        0        47     117     1209          631      470           0      0      214        0        0      3616        4             11
E. Nat.Sservices Contracts       32        0         0    1836        0           n         0          0    942      1610     1745        0      6237        S             13
F. Training                     130       9?        0      209       44          249      178          0      10        0        0       0        917       10            15         1
0. Project Prep. Fceltity         0        0         0       0        0            0        0          0       0        0        0    1756       1156        0             0
H. Pilot Action  ur&d             0        0         0       0        0          260        0          0       0        0        0       0        260        0             0
Total INESTHT COMT             1116      321       233    2270     1744         12        85        3214   1004      1824     180    1756       17415        7             11        a
It. REOUIENT COSTS
................... 
A. Slaeri    4 Trvtl Allow.       0       n        110     168       96             0     283          0        0        0        0       0       729        0           28
0. Vehicle/Equipat OAI            0       38        8      110       92             0     130          0        0        0        0       0      458        15           12
C. Other Incr. Operating C.       0      121        88      19      173             0      86          0        0        0        0       0       487       15           22
Total  CUEUT COSTS                0      23        28      297      361             0     499          0        0        0        0       0      1674        9           22
Total  ASELIN! COSTS           1116      s5s       519    2567     2105          1235    1357       3214    1004      1824     1840    17M      19069        7           12
PhY Ical ContingencIn          68                49      149      138            35      as        482      53       102       97       0      1325
PrIcc Contingncfes            136       77       69      286      249           127     161        539      97       184      376       0     2300         7
................... ..... ......     ...... ;i..........  ....... ..................................................................................
Total PRECT COSTS              1320      693      637    3001      2492          1397    1606       4235    1154      2110     2313    1756    22714         7           10
Taxes                          14       63       70      132      107             0     100        635     134       174      302       0     1731         9
forelin ExcbaW               1073      390      342    2076      1791          1007     930       2852     715.    1674      1132    1580    15571         7
S/21/1992



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
GNF miltion
Project Caq2onents by Year
Ban Costs                                     Total
...................................................................................
CNF         USS
92/93       93/94        94/95        95/96        96/9?      Mllion       Million
A. institution Development
1. Institution Sup. Coop.            309          283         283          121          121          1117        1.2
2. Chmiber of Commerce               294           83           66          74           35           552        0.6
3. Professional Org.                 293           77           64          63           21           51         0.6
..............................................................................
Sub-totaL                              896          443          413         258          177          2187        2.4
B. Pro(cbotion Support
1. Extension                         846         1204         307          110           99          2566        2.8
2. Adaptive Research                 850          504         448          148          155          2105        2.3
3. Smll/Nedius Enterprises           320          296          296         162          162          1236        1.3
4. Prod. groups/coops                604          375         379            0            0          1358        1.5
5. Access Roads                      643          63          643          642          o43          3214        3.5
......;;..... .......................................................................
Sub-total                             3263         3022         2073        1062         1059         10479       11.4
C. Special Program
1. Credit Mutuel                     487          258         258            0            0          1003        1.1
2. Private Investment Fund           809          302         244          264          205          1824        2.0
................... ............................ ....................................................................... 
Sub-total                             1296          560          502         264          205          2827        3.1
0. Project Prep. & Mnag_emnt
1. Project Management                429         318          357          379          357          1840        2.0
2. Project Prep. FacilIty           1756            0           0            0            0          1756        1.9
..... ............ ................................................................
Sub-total                             2185          318          357         379          357          3596        3.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                  7640         4343        3345         1963         1798         19089       20.7
Physical Contingencies               433          288         234          192          178          1325        1.4
Price Contingencies                  210         479          599          465          547         2300         2.5
...................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                   U83          5110        4178         2620         2523         22714       24.6
Taxes                                436          386         366          273          270         1731         1.9
foreign Exchange                   6311         3391         2629         1668         1572        15571        16.9
5/21/1992
I 
O0



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMTION PROJECT
Susary Accounts by Year
Totals Including contingencies                   Totals Including Contingencies
GNF million                                       US$ nillion
92/93  9    ./94  94/95  95/96  96/97  Totat      92/93  93/94 94/95  95/96 96/97 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Clvil Works                             989    807    848    888    931    4463           1.1    0.9    0.9    1.0    1.0    4.8
B. Vehicles                                439      0      93    152     16    700           0.5    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.0    0.8
C. Goods and Equipment                     584     63      29     23     25     724          0.6    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.8
D. Technical Assistance
1. Short Term Consultants               424    325    305    349    364    1767           0.5    0.4    0.3    0.4    0.4    1.9
2. Resident Experts                     751    797    838       0      0    2386          0.8    0.9    0.9    0.0    0.0    2.6
........... ...............................     ..........  ............................................................. ................ .....  
Sub-Total                                 1175   1122   1143    349    364    4153           1.3    1.2    1.2   0.4    0.4    4.5                         0%
E. Mgmt./Services Contracts               2471   2186   1180    749    741    7327           2.7    2.4    1.3   0.8    0.8    7.9
F. Training                                258    324    277    132    155    1146           0.3    0.4    0.3   0.1    0.2    1.2
G. Project Prep. FaciLity                 1756      0       0      0      0    1756          1.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.9
H. Pilot Action Fund                        52     52     52      52     52     260          0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    7724   4554   3622   2345   22S84   20529          8.4    4.9    3.9    2.5    2.5   22.3
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries & Travel Allow.                225    242      250   114    103     934          0.2    0.3    0.3   0.1    0.1    1.0
B. Vehicle/Equipment O&U                   158    157      153    63     53     584          0.2    0.2    0.2   0.1    0.1    0.6
C. Other Incr. Operating C.                175    160      152    98     82     667          0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1   0.1    0.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      558    559     555   275    238    2185           0.6    0.6    0.6    0.3    0.3    2.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                       8282   5113   4177  2620   2522   22714
...............................................................................          ..... ..........
fz 
-U:
O I



- 68 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
fPM LIC OF U11EA
NATI0|^  M$ICULUMAL MMOR MMtoAol    PRaWM
Technflica AssIstnoe nd U n oenmt/Sacvices ContraqtS
A.              T etnicdl Assistance Contra ts
1.              Institution Sucoort (Project Management Unit)
PUrDeO  to provide apport to privete sector controlled institutions involved in agrifuttural  xport
UtiTaT~, In particular the Chiwber of Ccemerc and the professional organizations in the fruit/vegetable
sector.
DQ crlotions    - 3 person-years of resident T.A.                  S  600, 000
- Short-term consultancies                        S   50000
Training activities                              S  100.000
- Promotlonal activities                          S   50.000
- Provision of comercil inforaution               S   50,000
- Pertnership assIstance
Total                                             S1,000,000
Procure  gt " thod:  Short-list international competitive bidding (contract to be procured jointly with the
prWoJe t-"Nlegament contract).
2.               Institution SUDOort (COLFACP)
bgs      tto rovide support to private sector institutions  nd w private operators for fruft nd vagetable
oggrcrStIon:    - Short-term consultancies                         S   250.000
- Training activities                             S   150OOC
- Promotional activities                          S    50.000
- Provision of coamercial informatfon             S    50 00
Total                                             S   500.000
trorur nt MMtod: Sole source procurement with the EEC-affilfated Liaison Coemfttee Europe-
Art ca r        Sef n ciffc for the Promotion of Tropieal Fruits, Off-Season Vgetables, Flors, Ornnmmtal
Plants and Spices (COLEACP).
3.              Acronomic Research Contraet
PuMoc o   to provide specialized  upport to the National Institute of Agronomic Resarch (IRAG) for adptive
WorticuRtural research.
Degcrftfln:    - 3 person-years of resident T.A.                    S 450,000
- Short-teru corsultancies                         S 150.000
- Laboratory analyses                              S  50 0Q0
Total                                              S 650,000
Procuremnnt Method: Short-list nternational coopetitive biddfng.
4.              Smellt/Mdifu Enterorise (SME) Contract
EPcr.gs: to provide support to satlt/mdius scale enterprises fn the agricultural export sector.
Re crl211on:    - 3 person-years of resident T.A.                   S 550.000
- Short-term consultanfes                          S 230.000
- operating expenditures                           S 70W0
Total                                              S 650,000
mothu r:  short-list international copetitive bfdding (contract to be procured jofntly wfth the
ProJ et  n gement Contract).
S.               Producer arOUqs/COOgeratIves Sucoort Contract
PurMohh to provide specialized support to the Cooperatives Devlaopmmnt ProJect (P0100) with focus on
marKeting/mnagement activities.
DescCfRtfen:    - 3 pnron-yars of resident T.A.                    S  450,000
-LW: Sole source procurnt with Foundatfon Friedrich Ebert (Gerun MWO).



- 69 -
Annexm
Page 2 of 2
inIC  OF 1URUA
BaTIOUIL AlCtOriL     EXPOTY PRWSTIo  PROJECT
Technfeat Assietatn ed Nme entlSbetvics  Cantrwft
8.              Services/Manacement Contracts
1. *ProTeelt Mansaent Contract
Purpge: to provide technicl, operational and financiaL/accounting support to the Project Management Unit.
D seriotgon:    - Short-term consultnwcies                       S 430,000
- Trafning                                      S 200.000
- Staff aloraes                                 $ 600,000
- Opratng expenditures                          6 940 0
Total                                           $2, TMW.O
N&tb Z : Short-list internattonal copetitive bidding (cant act to Include Inst1tution support
*n9 S" c-Oncraczas
2.              Services C.owtract for Mutual Credit Comonent
Purose.: to provide technicaL  oprational nd finanicial/accounting support to flopement the Mutuat Credit
co_pnnt in the prefectures of Mou nd Kindie.
Descriotion:    - 2 person-years of resident T.A.                S 300,000
- Short-term consultancies                      S 215,000
- Building rehabilitation  nd office equipment   S 210.000
- Staff salaries                                S  90.000
- Incrental operating expenditures              $ 380.000
Total                                           $1,19f,000
Procurement Method: Sol source uith Centre International de Crddit Mutual (CICO
3.              Interim Contract-with Eud Manescer
Purose: to provide short-term consulttnces to assit in the *stablishmnt of the Private invest_nt Fund
Descrfotfon:    - Short-term Consultancies                       S  380,000
Procurement Method: Short-list based international copetitive bidding.
4.              Lanes_m_nt Contract with the Fund luMaemnt Conv
Purose: to pravide financial resources to cover a fractionr of the ependitures incurred by the Fund
MPiiugment Cowany in manging the private investmnt fund scheme.
Descriotion:    - Resident T.A. CresiduaL w4p. over S years)     $1,430,000
- Vehicles and quipmnt                          S 135,000
- Operating expenditures Cresidal of 1st year)  A   55 000
Total                                           $1,620,000
Procurement Method: Short-list based international comptitfve bidding.
S.              Services Contracts for Agricultural Extension
Purosa:ato provide specialized extension for hortIcultural activities to outgrows   t he periphery of
nueu eStates.
DeserfIi:    - Staff salares                                    S11,200,000
Short-term consultniefs                       S 680,000
- Vehicle and equipment                         S 280000
- Operating costs                               S 310 000
Total                                           $2,470,000
Procurement Moth-d: Six to eight contracts procured umidr *ole source procurement uIth nuctes estates.



- 70 -
Amex 9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
DISSURSEMENT SCHEDULE AND PROFILE
A.    Estimated Disbursement Schedulo
IDA's           IDA's            Proejct's Estimated Profile                Stndard Profi(e S/
fL.           Se ts               Per Semester    Cumitative            Per Semester   CutwLative
USS itlion         X                US Sillion           X
1993               1                  2.2              11                   -                0
It                  2.8              14                   0.6              3
1994               1                  4.6              21                   2.1             10
II                . 6.3              30                   3.7             18
1995               I                  8.6              40                   6.2             30
II                 10.9              52                   7.9             38
1996               1                 13.0              63                  10.4              50
II                 15.1              72                  12.9            . 62
1997               I                 16.4              79                  14.6             70
it                 17.7              85                  17.1             82
1998               I                 18.7              90                  17.1             82
II                 19.6              94                  18.7             90
1999               1                 20.2              97                  19.6             94
-I                 20.8             100                  20.4             98
2000               I                                                       2 0.8           100
A/ Guin6e agriculture project (05/17/91)
B.    Disbursement Profile
21
19 
17-
iaa -                                      h
14 
13 
*      12-
-.  11
;   10 
a 
4-
a
2
I
0
133        1994   I   1906   I   IM9     I   1997   I   1906   U   1999   U  2OO
IDA Phism Yew
0    EaIim                    t Sn.



- 71 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Task                                Comtletion Date                           Acencv Resvonsible
Approval of LPDEA                           At negotiations                           MARA/CCEF
(Completed May 1992)
Approval of funding of nucleus              At negotiations                           MARA/MPF/BCRG
estates, Credit Mutuel and Fund             (Completed May 1992)
Management Company contracts
Establishment of steering committee         Before Credit effectiveness               MPF
Signature of project management contract    Before Credit effectiveness               MPF
Selection of Fund Manager and               Before Credit Effectiveness               BCRG/MPF
signature of interim contract
Signature of the institution                Before Credit Effectiveness               MCTT/MPF
support contract with COLEACP
Signature of contracts with two             Before Credit effectiveness               MARW/MPF
nucleus estates (AGRAFRUITS and
SOBRAGUI Agriculture)
Launching of ICB for vehicles               Before Credit effectiveness               PMU
Establishment of detailed I & E system      Before Credit effectiveness               PMU
Budget forecasts and work plan for CY93     September 1992                            PMU
to be submitted to MPF
Signature of contract with Credit Mutuel    October 1992                              BCRG/NPF
Company
Signature of conventions with PNIR, PNVA    December 1992                              MARA/HPF
and IRAG
Launching of ICB for two first road lots    December 1992                             PMU/PNIR
Signature of conventions with PDMGG         December 1992                             DND/MPF
and SENATEC
First bi-annual progress report             December 1992                             PMU



- 72 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
luk                                        Cgmtetion Date                              Acency Resoonsible
Arrival of Institution                        January 1993                                PMU
Specialist (project management contract)
Arrival of Small/Medium Enterprise            January 1993                                PMU
pecialist (project management contract)
Arrival Research Specialist and Research    January 1993                                  PMU/IRAG
Technician (IRAG Convention)
Establishment of PCPEA kindia Branch          January 1993                                DND/MPF
Signature of contract with                    January 1993                                DND/MPF
Friedrich Ebert Foundation
First bi-annuaL supervision missions          First Semester 1993                         PMU/executing agencies
of each component
Arrival of cooperatives Specialist            March 1993                                  PMU/PDNCG
(Friedrich Ebert Foundation Contract)
First audit of accounts                       March 1993                                  PMU
Arrival of resident expatriate director       April 1993                                  PMU
of the Fund Management Company
Signature of main contract with Fund          May 1993                                    BCRG/PMU
Management Company
Launching of ICB for two more roads Lots    May 1993                                      PMU/PNIR
Signature of two more contracts with          June 1993 MARA/MPF
with nucleus estates
First comprehensive budget forecasts          June 1993                                   PHU
nd work plan for CY94
Interim Evaluation of Fund Management         December 1994                               DND/MPF
Scheme
Project Midterm Review                        No later than June 1995                     PMU
Legend: PHU           - Project Management Unit
MPF          - Ministry of PlanMing and Finance
MARA         - Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
BCRG         - Central bank of the Republic of Guinea
PDNCG        - Cooperatives Development Project
OND          - National Directorate for Decentralization
COLEACP      - EEC-Affiliated Liaison Committee with ACP Countries
SENATEC      - National Service for Cooperatives



REPUILIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AI3ICILTUR. EXPIT PMIT01  PROJECT
IDA Stuervision Schdutle
Project Year       Nission No.                               Activity                                          Expected Skill Requirements                    SW
PY1                   I          Project Start-Up Activities                               Task Manager                                                  12
(FT93)                             Procurement Review                                       Agriculturalist
Financial Management                                     Environment SpecialSist
Establishment of AE  lint                                 Financial Analyst
Review of Enviroruental Nitigation Plan                  M&E Specialist
2          Organization/Management                                   Task Manager                                                  o
Launching of Field Activities                            Financial Analyst
Extension Specialist
___________________                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agronomist/Research Specialist  _______
PY2                   1          Implementation of Field Activities                        Task Manager                                                  8
(FY94)                                                                                       Financial Analyst
2          Review of Field Activities                                Task Manager                                                  7
Review of Financial Performance for 1993                  Financial AnalYst
Review of Training Activities                             Traininc Speciatist
PY3                  1           Interim Evaluation of Investment Fund Scheme              Task Manager                                                  8
(FY95)                             Procurement and Financial Review                         Credit Specialist
Financial AnalYst
2          Mid-Tern Review                                           Task Manager                                                 15
ConfirmationJReorienting of Project Design                Financial Analyst
Agriculturalist
MAE specialist
Envirornmental Specialist
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ institution  Specialist
PY4                  1            liplementation of Field Activities                       Task Manager                                                  6
(FT96)                            Review of Training                                        Training Specialist
2          Review of Financial Management                            Task Manager                                                  6
_Iplementation of Field Activities                       Financial Analyst
PY5                  1           irptementation of Field Activities                        Task Manager                                                  6
(FY97)                             Review of Environmental Impact                           Agriculturist
Environmental Specialist
2          Implementation of Field Activities                        Task Manager                                                  8
Review of Financial Management                           Financial Analyst
PCR                                                      Training Specialist
______________                                                                M KE Speciatist
_ x>



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Project Organizational Chart
A~dMWMW                                                                             AIN F ANCE
!                                  a
t                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   SIEERI4cWB O IEE
* |      {(COMITE OE PIOTA 
.                                                .
, : , .... . w ..... . , a- -- - -  .. .-- -!---.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   XRJC [M3 XAO&j tERr' 
z b ~~~~~~~~~~~*   rat  
Vahlkd            MRM~*SJJIS  OF COMMRCE aNTOA.IETOA    *MINISTY Of AMRCUL7URE aCf'AD~
wwbp            ~~~~TRANSPOR  MD TOURSM  aOF DECENTR1ALIZATION                                          A?QNUAL,RESOURCES                      a
IXUGp            Cth                            Nd                                                                                  _ aM d)CR              a
SENSTECNTWRSE N                             Re it   C 
E" NCOOPERPTaES                                                                              aFa
COLEACPREEC -  N     d) P   b       r                                                                                                               L            _
SENATEC  NaftW SSYLOPENT                     COrPRATVES         EXCESIO           NULhU
PWA  mowwftftftvPROECT                         ERVCE            POJET             ESATE
VW  Nm*" Msftft ol AWtutLffS Rnmvh ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ PNVA
PE FR Nr(e    o    "qoua  RwOf)  k*awkCIoIS mowaI                                                                                                                   CDCAl aeC



- 75 -
Annex 13
Pdge 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Monitorina and Evaluation System
1.           Both mvni ring and evaluation activities are perceived as internal management tools
for project managers ana not as an external control mechanism. Participation by the whole team is
essential if they are to be effective tools. With this in mind, once the project is operational, general
training in fundamental principles of M&E will be provided for the entire team by a specialized short-
term consultancy mission which, inter alia, will emphasize the participatory nature of monitoring, the
essential need for teamwork and a problem solving approach within a management information system
framework.
2.           The project should continue to build up its information system which started informally
during the pre-project stage in order to become the center for information in the agricultural export
sector. Strong links have already been established with the newly emerging professional associations,
and some of the project's potential beneficiaries, who are an important source of information for
monitoring purposes. The continuation of infr mation sharing and exchanging will be a key element
in the ultimate success of the project. By proje. ._ end the 'profession should have become the center
of information, and, to this end, a gradual and systematic transfer to them of all export information will
need to be made by the project management.  Progress towards this, along with future plans to
achieve it, should be reviewed during the Mid-Term Evaluation (FY3).
3.           Monitoring activities will aim at providing the Project Management Unit (PMU) with
permanent information on the execution of each convention/contiact, as well as those components
directly managed by the PMU, with appropriate analysis of implementation problems. The objective
of routine evaluation activities will be to periodically survey the project's effects on the increase in
agricultural exports and of the welfare status of targetted producers. Quick low cost diagnostic studies
will be carried if and when necessary. While the main objective of the M&E system is to serve project
management, ultimately its successful implementation would facilitate both the Mid-Term and the
Project Completion reviews.
4.           Thus the major tasks in monitoring and evaluation will be as follows:
a)    preparing a series of critical path analysis for each convention/contract, as well
as those components directly managed by the PMU;
b)    planning and programming (on the base of the critical path analysis) the
monitoring work timetable for each convention/contract and project
component;
c)    monitoring all components by assuring the systematic collection and
processing of relevant data;
d)    planning and supervising a series of periodic evaluation surveys;
e)    initiating short low cost diagnostic studies where appropriate;
f)    providing an overall view of the business and administrative climate in
relation to the agricultural export sector;



- 76 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
relation to the agricultural export sector; and
g)    assisting in the preparation for Mid-Term Review and Project Completion Report.
5.           Reviewing these tasks only serves to further emphasize the important need for
teamwork but, given the.r key nature, it is also deemed essential that a member of the PMU be
nominated to assume full responsibility for these activities. He should have major responsibility for
tasks au to "dw and full participation in Oew through g". In order to keep the PMU small and dynamic
no further staff is envisaged and all surveys will be contracted out to local consultancy firms. An up-
to-date directory of such firms listing any specialist skill should be maintained by the PMU. When
establishing this directory a quick sui vey of training and support needs for each firm should be carried
out; the possibility of providing them with project support under the SME component should be
studied. It is important that a sociologist should be identif;ed (ideally attached to a local consultancy
office) at an early stage. Occasionally he/she could be called upon to contribute in survey design and
testing, and more importantly in analyzing any unexpected reactions by the target population. Most
short diagnostic studies should be carried out by PMU members and every field trip should include time
spent with groups and individuals from the targetted population using a problem sc:ving approach and
establishing maximum beneficiary "feed-back", in order that management can adjust or fine tune each
component if and when necessary. Such an approach will greLtly enhance dialogue between the team
and target groups and make diagnostic work easier.
6.           Given the number of conventions/contracts and different operators supported by the
project a key element will be the systematic collection and processing of relevant data from these
diverse sources. Training in methodology and approach will be provided by the project in this area
(see following paragraph). The project will support but not substitute for the executing agencies.
Thus in those components where a M&E system is in place, this collection will be the responsibility of
the executing agency. Where no such system is in place the executing will need to assure that
adequate data is prepared by their sta'f which will be systematically collected and processed by the
PMU technician with a view to producing appropriate informaticn on key management indicators. All
information will be collated by the M&E officer, the findings should form the basis for establishing
yearly work programs and should be reviewed during each joint supervision mission (PMU and
executing agencies). Renewal of yearly contracts could be conditional on performance in providing
such data.
7.           Under the M&E component, the project will provide ten person-months of specialized
short-term consultancies to assist in the planning and implementations of the proposed M&E activities.
These will be a continuation of the specialized mission, undertaken as part of project preparation,
whose purpose were to assist in the design of M&E system. Once the project is operational, the first
of these consultancies will assure a) general training (via a mini-workshop) for the entire PMU team,
and b) specific training in planning M&E work-sheets for the M&E officer in order to strengthen the
PMU's own project supervision capacity. Further specialized on-the-job training, as well as M&E
training visits to neighboring countries and participation in regional/sub-regional M&E workshops will
be provided for this officer.



- 77 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GWINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
PRUC;  N4. MARKET AND PRICES
Table 1. Pineaoole Yield Levels
Current                                                                             '996i97
Situation       1992/93          1993/94        1994/95            1995/96           Onuard
------------------------------------- tons/ha -------------------------------------
Nuctetz Estates
(Gross Produced)               (35)            (40)             (45)            (50)              (55)             (55)
Net Exportable                  25              28               35              37                40               40
Outarowers
(Gross Produced)               (25)            (30)             (40)            (45)              (50)             (50)
Net Exportable                  15              23               30               30               35               35
I ndeendent
S taIholders
(Gross produced)               (20)            (20)             (25)            (25)              (30)             (30)
Net Exportable                  10              12               15               17               20               20
Table 2. Manao Area (ReslantedlGrafted) and Production 1/
Current
Situation        1992/93        1993/94       1994/95        1995/96      1996/97
-...................................... ha --------------------------ha--------
DanLo area
Replanted                 -            50             75           100            150           200
Grafted                                20             50           100            200           500
------------------- -------------------- tons ----------------------------------
Productfio 
(net exportable)       300            600         1,200          2,500         3,500          5.000
j/ Estimtes for project area
g/ 8,000 tons as target for the year 2000



- 78 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Production, Markets and Prices (Cont').J
Tblt 3 Area Under Pineantle: Present Situation, Prolect Years and Year 2000
------Project Years---------------------------
Present
situation   1992/93       1993/94      1994/95       1995/96    1996/97    Year 2000
-------------------------------Hectares------------------------------
Nulust Estates
Daboy                       15          110           170          220          300           340           450
Salguidia                   ro           95           155          210          270           340          450
Sobragui Agriculture                     65           95           120           130          170           250
Other estates               t5                         20           25            35           45            75
SubtotaL                 100          290          440           575          735           895         1,225
Outsrowers
Daboya                      15           40            95          110           120          130           150
Salgufdia                    -           30           40            45           60            80           150
Sobragui Agriculture         -           60            75           80           80            95           150
Other Estates                -           10            10           10            15           15            25
Subtotal                  15          140          220           245          275           320          475
Independent Smaltholders   Q             80          t05           115          120           140          350
Grand Total                155                        765          935        1.130         1 355        2.050
N.B  The tigures concern the totol area planted.  It is estimated that each year one third is under
production for nucleus  states and outgrowers, and one half for independent smaltholders.
TIbtl 4 P1neanole Production: Present Situation. Prolect Years and Year 2000
-------- --------------------Project Years--------------------------
Present
Situation   1992/93       1993/94      1994/95       1995/96    1996/97    Year 2000
-.....................--------Tons----------------- _-            _-_
NISteus Estates
Daboy                      125        1.000       2000          2,700        4,000         4,500        6,000
Salguidia                 580           900         1.800        2,600        3,600         4,500        6,000
Sobraguf Agricultur          -          600         1.100        1,500         1,700        2,300         3,200
Other Estates                           175           250300                     500          600         1.000
Subtotal             830         2,675        4,850         7,100        9,800        11,900       16,200
Outurowers
Daboyc                      75          300           950        1,100         1,400        1,500         1.700
SalguIdia                    -          250          400           450          700           VI0         1,700
Sobraguf Agriculture         -          450           750          800          950         1,100         1,700
Other Estates                -           50           100          100           200          200           300
Subtatat              T7 12050                2,200         2.450        3 250         3,750        5 00
Indepenrynt SmlIholders 2f8                                      1.000        L20           1400         35
Grand Totat l              10         47                        10 550       14250        17 050        252100
LJL  Production (net exportable) f. computed under following yield assuwptions:  (a) nucleus estates:  55
tons gross per hectare of  hicih 70M  or 4  tons exportable; Cb) outgrowers:  50 tons gross per hectare or 3
IMo exportable; and (c) fndapenderit mi lholders: 30 tons gross per hectare or 20 tons exportable.



- 79 -
Annex JA
Page 3 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PRONOTION PROJECT
PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES (cogtd)
Tabte 5 PIneaccie production Costs (Estates and Outarorers) I/
NucLeus Estates               Outgrowers
-------------- 000 GNF/Ha ------------
1. Production of Plantina Material
- Inputs                                 225                          225
- Mechanized Work                         25
- Labr                                    30                           40
2. Land Preparation
- Inputs                                 875                          610
- Mechanized Work                        330                          215
- Labor                                    5                           15
3.  Preoaration of Plantina Material
- Mechanized Work                        170                           50
- Labor                                  150                           55
4.  Plantfin
- Nechanized Work                         40
- Labor                                   35                           35
5. Crop Culttivaion (before flowerina)
- inputs                               2,465                        2,150
- Mechanized Work                        400
- Labor                                  250                           85
6. Chemical Treatment
- Inputs                                  30                           30
- Mechanized Work                         30
- Labor                                   20                           90
7. CrOp Cultivation (after floNerina)
Irm- ute                               120                            -
- Lilbo                                 20                           22
S. Irripation
- Equipnent am-tizatfon and 0 & M        905                          905
- Labor                                  270                          180
9. Harvestina and Sortfna
- Mechanized work                        160
- Labor                                  120                          120
Total Production Costs                       b/                      MO S/
) Labor valued at OGF 1200 per person-day.
Or GF/Kg 166 assun g exportable yield of 40 tons/ha.
S/ Or ANF/Kg 134 assu ing exportable yield of 35 tonrs/ha.



-80-
Annex 14
Page 4 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICtLTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
PRODUCTIOH MARKETS AND PRICES (Cont$d)
TYblt 6  P£inelf   Input Costs and LaDor Reoutremnts (Indecendant SmatIholders)
Irput Cost               Family Labor
(6000 GUF/ha)              (Person-days/he)
1.   Plantina Material                               159                         24
2.   Lw.d PromrAtion                                 223                           2
3.   Ptlntfn                                          131                         90
4.   Crop Cuttivation (Before flowering)             1566                        23
S.  Chemical Treatment                                50                         40
6.  CrOp CultivatIo (After flowering)                 22                         12
7.   Irrij tfg                                        na.                        n.s.
8.   Harvestu n                                        50                          50
Total                                  -T 201  /                       261
s/   110 GNF/KG (0.12$/KG) of  moetsry cost awning an exportable yield of 20 tons/per hectare



- 81 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES (Cont d)
Table 7 Mango Production Costs (Estate Plantation) /
('000 GNF/ha)
A. Estsblishment Costs
1.     Nursery
- Inputs                                       23
- Labor (41 person-days)                       49
Subtotal                                     72 (i.e. 720 GNF/plant)
2.     Land Preparation
- Inputs                                       42
- Mechanized work                             125
- Labor (13 person-days)                       16
3.     Plantina (including irrigation in year 1)
- Nechonfzed work                             217
- Labor (16 person-days)                       19
Total Establishment Costs                            491
B. Production Costs
1.      Crop Cultivation
- Inputs                                      236
- Labor (22 person-days)                       26
2.      Harvestina
- Inputs                                       19
- Mechanized work                             120
- Labor (30 person-days)                       36
3.       Amortization of establishment costs b/        49
Total Production Costs                                486 Q)
) Labor priced at prevailing market rate of 1,200 GNF/person-day
Amortization over 10 years
g/ i.e. 69 GNF/kg at exportable yield of 7 tons/ha.



-82 -
Annex 14
Page 6 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES (Cont'd)
Tsbt*l   Nanso Inrut Costs and Labor Reauirements (Smitholders)
Input               Family
Cost               Labor
A.  Plantation Establishment               ( 000 GNF/ha)       (Person-day/ha)
1.  Plantina Material
(1000 GNf x 100 plants)               100
2.   Land Prer aratlon
- Inputs                               23
- Mechanized Work                      96
- Lbor                                 39                   40
3.  Plantina                                                     50
- Labor                                 4                    4
Total                                      262                   I
S.   Cr_ _rdUCtfo
1.  Amortfzation of Establishment Costs I/ 32
2.   Croo Cultivatfon
- Input                                37
- Labor                                79                   43
3.   Harvestina IV
- Lbor                                 40                    40
Total                   83
IV Amortization over 10 years; family labor valued at 1,000 GNF/person-day.
k/ Including transport to point of collection.
£/ 68 GNF/kg. at xportable yield of 4 tons/ha, vatui-s family labor at 1,000
GNF/person-day.



- 83 -
Annex 14
Page 7 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIOIAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
Prodution. Narkets ad Prices
TabLe 9 - Formeat* Price for PineoaRle And llro
Shipmnt by air        Shipmnt by sea
A.-----------   FF/kg----------------
-  Wholesto Price                          11.00                   6.00
-   Iqporter's commission (8)             (0.88)                 (0.48)
-   Forwarding, storage  nd                (0.50)                 (0.82)
transport to market
-   Freight nd inrurance                   (5.35)                 (1.55)
-   FOB Conakry                             4.27                   3.15
- -------------GNF/kg ----------------
-   FOB conakry                             5.76                   4.25
-   Export/packaging tax                    n.a.                   n.s.
-  Airport/port handling,                    (36)                  (36)
storage and forwarding
Damestic transport                         (16)                   (16)
-   Packaging and treatment                (168)                  (168)
-   Farmqate prico                          356                    205
B.M
,                                         ------------- --'f/ 4.......... ----------------
!h- holesale price                          12.00                  9.00
- lporter's commission (81)               (0.96)                 (0.72)
-   Forarding storage  nd                  (0.50)                 (0.82)
transport to mrket
-   Freight nd inurance                    (5.35)                 (1.55)
-   FOB Conakry                             5.19                   5.91
. .-.--.----- -  .GF/kg ---------------
-   FOB Conakry                             6.90                   7.16
-   Export/packaging tax                    n.s.                   n.s.
-  Airport/Port handling,                   (36)                   (36)
storage and forwarding
-  Dometic tranport                          (16)                  (16)
-   Packagin  and treatment                (185)                  (185)
-   Farmate price                            464                    560
-s.__  _



-84-
Annex 14
Page 8 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GWINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PRONOTION PROJECT
PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES 5Ct d)
Table 10 Exgort Potential for Selected Non-Traditional Commodities I
(Europe narket)
1996/97                Year 2000
------------ Tons/Ha --------------
A.      Perlshable Products
1.      Fresh Fruits /
Papaya (solo)                                 500                    1.000
Tomato                                        500                    1,000
Lime (Tahiti)                                   -                      500
Other Fresh Fruits                            500                    1.000
2.      Fresh Vegetables
Sherry Tomtoes                              1,200                    2,000
Nolon (Honeydew)                            1,200                    2,000
GInger                                        100                      500
Other Fresh Vegetables                      1,000                    2,000
3.      Ornamental Flowers                               -                        -
........                .......... .......
Sub-Totat Perishable                        5,300                   10,500
S.      Processed Products k/
1.      Fruit Juice Concentrates                    6,000                   10.000
2.      Other Fruit Juices                          3,000                     5.000
3.      Dried Fruits                                  500                     1.000
Sub-Total Processed                         9,500                   16.000
IV All products except pineapples end mangoes in fresh
k/ All products except mengo pulp In fresh equivalent



iBr
S  E  N    E  G  A  L          1I                                             io                                               8d
GUIN
M A L I                         ~~NATIONAL AG
G U I N E A                                                                       -- rotEedou9a i  M A L I (u._.> EXPORT PROMO 0   RO. C
;3)-       >           ,,,PROJECT LOCATION
T. B-.k.
12 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N
B I  SA U
THE GAMEIA .._..Z2    S.                     .                         Adn,inistroI,ve Re9gon 8ondor4es            ;                       -V        
BISSAU W      GUO'A        LNS        J        5      1 5   B -  1000   _
-                                     -
~~~LEONE ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    I   R      LE       N
fLEONE >@-st  C6TE DIVOIRE  )     =J 200                             160                                          i                                           ,7 W 4d8 D E,
)L.IBERIA                             (  IOMETERSO      40       8        12      16                            /on                t                                Jop.l<dr iinU
<  (/                        ~~~~~~~~~MILES 0  20  40   60     80     10              .       L    ERIA\                             -,,_.                       ts
.eidn.fl.n.I AFrpRrI
1:,-  MAURITA141A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4/Arfdd
Nwi ... I C.p.. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EBU



4.  2                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRS 23527
S E N  E  G  A L            '2                                                                                   6.'IRD32
S_NEGAL .' .  .  .  ._._._._\GUINEA
-*/ T 6-                              1l Jb M A L I                                                    NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
G U I N E A -                n   0            ;0,    .  *75- r                                                                        EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
i55010         PROJECT LOCATION
IS2                                                                                                                                                                                  12'
r = - N t, I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A u   F 
7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-"
IC.~~~~~~~~~~I
ONF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT
f~~".     M~AAARITANIA
THE GAMBIA Z't 
GUIN- r -'  1
SIERRA
LEONE '1s<                 /
--/ LIBERIA            I                           _Vf  ___8C  20  160    ,.Y__o_                                   -
-     tO -BC=!     30 ' - -                 .1 "S bQ    ac   :Os   I L  I B E R IAA1,d,o
FEBRUARY 992



j ! B 59 u  XTougu6
/                                                                                                                                                                                         - )  \    ~   t   ISellolw
0 10 2'0 3 40 50MILS 1 Debvol I ' > _ \ 3, n rGUINEEA
'N                                                                                            ¼~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
0 C E, A N  Kb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H44 
ID.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
o   20        40         60       80 KILOMETERS
O  iDo     20       30      40      SO IRLESDD
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
t>.    MAURITANIA                                                                                                                               EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
SENEGAL  t   Mb;l          /#X<s (!('M\K9>91iA   }                                                                ~~~~PROJECT LOCATION
TI.A                             MA                   ConIkryA                                                                        I  PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                   -       PAVED ROADS
THE GAMBIA>9 .                                                                             WI M.en                                             C) o  -  0    PROJECT ANTENNA                        ALL-WEATHER ROADS
-  )-  tA  1   <BURKINA                       ^          j X    lerric   < \  qi r                 O    cclAGANDpRoFessloNAloRGANlzATloNs       ' -4CCIG-AN  RALROADSAL OGANIZTION  RAIROAD
B.-URKINAPNARVS
GUINEAt                                       FASO                                                                                            IRAG                                     +    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
BISSAU  /7.
BISSAU  J,   G U I N E A                                                                                                0    NUCLEUS ESTATES                                AIRFIELDS
-    f    \                                                                                                                El   PDMCG                                    *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
C.nab.   , k  v*                                  Mi thcopRo bi. pe.pE 0d 1                                                            PNIR                                     t    ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS
1SIE  IA                                                  _ ily                                                           0    CREDIT MUTUEL                            0    PREFECTURE CAPITALS
L>       C0EDIONRE  }1N            /  :,d I. IOTE D.cR  1 I-A                                                                 PROJECT BOUNDARY (CORE INVESTMENTS)           PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
s   ;                 IR   GrenIap1~.AMM~G Tb d e. e -d                                                           ELEVATIONINMETERS                             ADMINISTRATIVE REGION Bu,NDARIES
.L,;IBER,.,  r IA                 A,p Edo,i . h                                                                        - 1,000                                        INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
~~~.              poeSm~~~jd-.  A.ldoo Unep                                                             550
( {    _     f       odroor=rnro    t .,o,o.--P  200
L                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FEBRUARY



