Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2407 GUI
Agreement Providing for Amendment and 
Restatement of Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Export Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 6, 1992
As Amended and Restated on December 8, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2407 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association, dated August  6, 1992 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), in the manner hereinafter set forth (Amendment);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01.  The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated 
in its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto.
Section 1.02.  This Agreement is effective as of the date hereabove written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Page  2
/s/ Mohamed Ali Thiam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
ANNEX
to Agreement providing
for Amendment and
Restatement of Develop-
ment Credit Agreement
dated August 6, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2407 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Export Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 6, 1992
As Amended and Restated on December 8, 1997
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1992, as amended by Agreement (the Amendment) and 
Restatement on December 8, 1997 between the Republic of Guinea (the Borrower) and 
International Development Association (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated March 26, 1992, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to develop 
the Borrower's agricultural export sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has received from the Fonds d’Aide et de Coopération (FAC) a 
Page  3
grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent to $600,000 to assist in financing the 
project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAC Grant 
Agreement) dated April 18, 1992, between the Borrower and FAC; and
(D)
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or 
for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
February 21, 1989 and March 6, 1989; June 12, 1990 and July 24, 1990; December 13, 
1990 and February 11, 1991; June 6, 1991 and June 25, 1991; and June 6, 1991 and 
February 11, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)
"FGPCA" means Fonds de Garantie des Prets pour la Commercialisation 
Agricole, a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 94/130 
dated November 3, 1994, of the Ministry of the Interior of the Borrower;
(c)
“MPSP” means Ministère chargé de la Promotion du Secteur Privé, the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for private sector promotion activities;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"GF" means Guinean Franc, the currency of the Borrower; and
(f)
“Agricultural products or exports” means any product from agriculture, 
livestock or fisheries activities which is earmarked for export trade. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Page  4
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2002, and ending March 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2012, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
Page  5
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project under the overall supervision of MPSP, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, 
environmental and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
 Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i)
open and thereafter maintain in GF and in the name of the 
Project (the Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)
thereafter deposit into the Project 
Account on the first day of every calendar quarter commencing on January 1, 1993, an 
amount equivalent to budgetary allocations required to cover anticipated expenditures 
for the Project over that quarter.
(c)
Amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
conclude contractual arrangements with relevant institutions satisfactory 
to the Association to (i) provide required expert advice (including technical, 
informational and managerial and training) to agricultural operators and agricultural 
associations, and (ii) strengthen the performance of small- and medium-scale 
agricultural enterprises;
(b)
conclude with FGPCA an agreement satisfactory to the Association aimed at 
facilitating access to credit for small- and medium-scale enterprises specializing in 
agricultural exports;
(c)
(i)
not later than October 31, 1997, take all measures required 
on its part to ensure that wharf facilities in Benty and 
Fandie and all accessories related thereto including any 
relevant 
access roads are gazetted and classified into the 
public domain of the 
Borrower, and  
(ii)
conclude with a qualified and experienced private operator 
acceptable to the Association, contractual arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association, to operate and maintain 
the wharf 
facilities referred to under Part D of the 
Project;
(d)
conclude with relevant services, departments or agencies of the Borrower 
appropriate administrative arrangements satisfactory to the Association to ensure the 
proper execution of Parts B.1, B.2, B.4 and D.4 of the Project, including a 
Page  6
contribution in the amount of 15% to be made in kind by rural communities towards the 
costs of rural roads rehabilitation;
(e)
(i)
prepare draft annual work programs including training 
programs and submit them to the Association for review and 
comments no later than October 31 of each year, and 
(ii)
thereafter promptly implement said work and training 
programs; and
(f)
(i)
carry out a mid-term review with the Association no later 
than December 31, 1999, to assess the progress achieved in 
the 
execution of the Project, and 
(ii)
promptly implement the recommendations resulting from the 
mid-term review as they shall have been agreed upon with 
the 
Association.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to grant promptly all land 
rights and all administrative permits or authorizations required to private operators 
willing to invest with a view to increasing agricultural production in the Borrower’s 
territory.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each 
such year, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as 
the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  7
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right 
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the FAC Grant 
made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to 
the terms thereof, and
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is 
not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions namely, that the Project Account referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) has been opened and an amount of GF 250,000,000 has been deposited therein.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Boite Postale 579
Conakry, Republic of Guinea
Cable address:
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohamed Ali Thiam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
       % of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(a)
except for Part D.2
  1,350,000
of the Project
(b)
for Part D.2
         2,400,000
of the Project
Page  9
(2)
Vehicles, goods,
   2,400,000
100%
and equipment
(3)
Operating costs
   1,000,000
67%
(4)
Training and
   1,800,000
100%
Consulting services
(5)
Refunding of
   1,400,000
Amounts due pur-
Project Prepara-
suant to Section 
tion Advance
2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement
(6)
Amounts withdrawn prior
   4,244,000
to Project restructuring as
consolidated through October
31, 1997
(7)
Unallocated
     606,000
   _________
TOTAL
  15,200,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following 
meaning:
(a)
“Operating costs” means expenditures in respect of items such as fuel, 
lubricants, costs for repair and maintenance of vehicles and office equipment, office 
supplies, expenses for travel related to the Project and salaries for contractual 
staff hired for the execution of the Project;
(b)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures made in a currency other than 
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from a territory other 
than the Borrower’s territory; and
(c)
“local expenditures” means expenditures made in the currency of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) 
unless the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the contractual 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement have been concluded.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works, 
goods training, and operating cost under contracts not exceeding $150,000 equivalent 
each; (b) for consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; 
and (c) for individual consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each; under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the capability of the Borrower to 
increase agricultural production for export and to establish an appropriate incentive 
framework to attract private equity investment in the agricultural export sector.
Part A:
Strengthening of Private Sector Institutions dealing with 
Agricultural Exports
1.
Assistance to operators of the agricultural exports sector established in Guinea 
to build viable partnerships with foreign investors so as to promote an efficient 
Page  10
transfer of technical know-how, financial resources and adequate knowledge conducive 
to a better access to export markets, inter alia through: (a) streamlining of 
administrative formalities pertaining to agricultural exports; (b) pre-financing of 
agricultural exports; and (c) carrying out of a pilot market testing scheme to assess 
market potential for Guinea’s agricultural exports in selected foreign markets. 
2.
Adequate training of national agriculture investors and operators in subject 
matters relevant to an efficient operation of their businesses, including, inter alia, 
how to prepare credit applications and to secure adequate collateral as required by 
lending institutions. 3.
Assistance to professional associations in the agricultural 
export sector to increase their performance at all levels of their operations.
Part B:
Improvement of Productivity for agricultural export products 
1.
Provision of adequate extension services to farmers through relevant agencies of 
the Borrower and private nucleus estates to increase agricultural productivity for 
agricultural export products. 
2.
Execution of an adaptive research program on pilot plots, aimed at finding 
practical remedies to agronomic and technological constraints that currently restrain 
productivity for agricultural export products. 
3.
Provision of specialized management advice and services tailored to the needs of 
small- and medium-scale agricultural enterprises. 
4.
Assistance to increase productivity for small farmers.
Part C:
Mobilization of Financial Resources for Agricultural Investments 
1.
Facilitating increased access to credit for small- and medium-scale agricultural 
enterprises, through the formulation and execution of a training program to improve 
the operational capacity of specialized financial institutions in the appraisal and 
supervision of agriculture related lending operations. 
2.
Acquisition of packaging materials for agricultural export products.
Part D:
Infrastructure Development 
1.
Construction of agricultural exports storage and handling facilities in Conakry, 
Forecariah, Mamou, Dabola and Kankan; and acquisition of required handling equipment. 
2.
Reconstruction and equipping of dilapidated wharf facilities in Benti and 
Fandié. 
3.
Carrying out of hydrographic surveys and works to improve the navigability of 
the Mellancoré River basin. 
4.
Rehabilitation of about 250 km of access roads in rural areas.
Part E:
Project Management 
1.
Acquisition of logistics support required to ensure adequate execution of the 
Project. 
2.
Training of staff responsible for the execution of the Project. 
3.
Development and implementation of a Project Monitoring and Evaluation system.
*           *          *             * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.  Procurement of Good and Works
Page  11
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of: (i) $250,000 or more each for works; and 
(ii) $150,000 or more each for goods. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive 
Bidding Civil works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,100,000 equivalent and goods 
estimated to cost less than $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International or National Shopping 
Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,700,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
Page  12
of $100,000 or less and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, 
the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for consultant under Parts B.1, D.1 and D.4 of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants under Parts C and E of the Project tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:  Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions) shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 2.
Payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the Special 
Account which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
Page  14
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
