LOAN NUMBER 2244 CM
MAETUR Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MISSION D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EQUIPEMENT DES
TERRAINS URBAINS ET RURAUX
Dated                                    L , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2244 CM
MAETUR PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        A  we4... t I        , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and MISSION D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EQUIPEMENT
DES TERRAINS URBAINS ET RURAUX (hereinafter called MAETUR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween United Republic of Cameroon (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that MAETUR
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to MAETUR on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS MAETUR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MAETUR shall with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and urban development practices:
(i) carry out Part B of the Project;


﻿-2-
(ii) carry out Parts A and E (i) of the Project,
through ARAN; and
(iii) cooperate with, and assist, CFC in the carrying
out of Part D of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MAETUR shall, in carrying out Part A (ii) of the Project, ensure
that the sale price of lots to residents shall cover at least the
aggregate costs to MAETUR of: (i) land acquisition; (ii) design,
supervision and overhead costs for construction of on-site infra-
structure; and (iii) the cost of such construction (including
interest paid by MAETUR on sums borrowed therefor), it being
understood that a portion of said costs in respect of certain
items of on-site infrastructure, to be determined by agreement
between the Borrower, the Bank and MAETUR, shall not be required
to be so covered.
Section 2.03. In order to secure assistance in carrying out
its obligations under this Agreement, MAETUR shall employ the
following specialists and consultants whose selection, qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981:
(a) one municipal engineer specialized in urban upgrading,
who shall serve as Deputy Director of ARAN, for the purpose of
carrying out Part E (i) of the Project;
(b) engineering consultants to assist ARAN in the prepara-
tion of detailed engineering studies, plans and specifications
and bidding documents for Part A of the Project;
(c) short-term consultants to assist ARAN in resolving any
special issues or problems arising in connection with the carry-
ing out of Part A of the Project, as shall be required and agreed
between the Bank and MAETUR; and
(d) engineering consultants to assist in the preparation of
detailed engineering studies, plans and specifications and bid-
ding documents for Part B of the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to MAETUR shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) MAETUR undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by MAETUR to replace or repair such goods.
(b)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, MAETUR shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) MAETUR shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction, work and procurement schedules
for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) MAETUR: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of
the Project (including their cost, the benefits to be derived
from them, and key indicators of economic and social changes in
the Nylon neighborhood such as changes in population, development
of family incomes and progress in the regulation of tenure), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A and B
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, quarterly progress reports on the carrying out of
Parts A and B of the Project.


﻿(c) Upon the award by MAETUR of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) MAETUR shall assist the Borrower in the preparation of
the reports referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of the Loan
Agreement, with respect to Parts A and B of the Project.
(e) MAETUR shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of MAETUR and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. MAETUR shall duly perform all its obligations
under the MAETUR Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, MAETUR shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the MAETUR Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) MAETUR shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) MAETUR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by MAETUR of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the MAETUR Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operation of MAETUR
Section 3.01. (a) MAETUR shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs and maintain its financial posi-
tion in accordance with appropriate administrative, economic,
financial and urban development practices, and under an experi-
enced and qualified management assisted by competent staff in
adequate number.


﻿- 5 -
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, MAETUR shall: (i) set up and maintain its
organization, including ARAN, in accordance with the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (ii) operate and maintain
its equipment, properties and facilities, and, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with appropriate technical and management practices.
Section 3.02. MAETUR shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, MAETUR
shall at all times take all steps necessary to maintain its legal
existence and right to carry on its operations, and to acquire
and to retain such interest in land and properties, and to
acquire, maintain and renew such concessions, licenses, consents,
franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or useful for the
execution and operation of the Parts of the Project for which it
is responsible.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MAETUR shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) MAETUR shall, until one year after the Closing Date,
retain all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for Parts A and B of the
Project on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to inspect such
records.
Section 4.02. MAETUR shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing  principles   consistently   applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable tc the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, its unaudited financial


﻿-6-
statements for such years; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than twelve months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of itz financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors: on the
separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agree-
ment; and in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds
of the Loan made available to MAETUR and withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iv) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of MAETUR and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of MAETUR thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify MAETUR thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any carcella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿- 7 -
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For MAETUR:
Mission d'Amenagement et d'Equipement des
Terrains Urbains et Ruraux (MAETUR)
Boite Postale 1248
Yaound'
Cameroun
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of MAETUR may be taken or executed by its
President du Conseil d'Administration or such other person or
persons as MAETUR shall designate in writing, and MAETUR shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By        -D-c'
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
MISSION D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EQUIPEMENT DES
TERRAINS URBAINS ET RURAUX
By                              Rpentiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Organization of MAETUR
(Section 3.01, paragraph (b) (i), of the MAETUR
Project Agreement)
Unless otherwise agreed between the Bank and MAETUR,
MAETUR's organizational structure shall be as follows:
Management and Organization
1.    MAETUR shall be managed by a conseil d'administration, a
director and an assistant director.
2.   MAETUR's organizational structure shall comprise the follow-
ing main departments:
- Programming Division;
- Administrative and Financial Division;
- Technical Division;
- Marketing Division;
- Urban Equipment Division; and
- Agences.
3.   ARAN shall be managed by: (a) a Coordinating Committee; and
(b) a Cameroonian Chief of Agence, with the assistance of the
Deputy Director referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the MAETUR
Project Agreement.
4.   ARAN's organizational structure shall comprise the following
four sections:
(a) a technical section in charge of urban infrastructure;
(b) a technical section in charge of community facilities;
(c) a finance and administration section; and
(d) a community organization section to liaise with com-
munity groups of Nylon so as to ensure their participa-
tion in the planning and execution of Part A of the
Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of4    4A 196
FOR SECRETARY


