                                                                         PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                                                  APPRAISAL STAGE

                                                                                                                                           Report No.: PIDA504
Public Disclosure Copy




                          Project Name                                 Second Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project (P128309)
                          Region                                       AFRICA
                          Country                                      Guinea
                          Sector(s)                                    Irrigation and drainage (40%), Crops (35%), Agricultural extension and research (25%)
                          Lending Instrument                           Specific Investment Loan
                          Project ID                                   P128309
                          Borrower(s)                                  Government of Guinea
                          Implementing Agency                          Ministry of Agriculture, CNOP-G
                          Environmental Category                       B-Partial Assessment
                          Date PID Prepared                            21-Jun-2012
                          Estimated Date of Appraisal Completion 20-Jun-2012
                          Estimated Date of Board Approval             29-Jun-2012
                          Decision


                         I.   Project Context
                              Country Context
                              Guinea is one of Africa’s poorest countries. Its population, now totaling 10 million is growing at a rate of over 2.6 percent per year. Household
                              survey data in 2007 indicated that over 53 percent of the population lived below the poverty line. Recent political instability and the 2008 food
                              and fuel crisis may have pushed the poverty rate upwards to approximately 58 percent in 2010. Guinea’s macroeconomic performance has
                              worsened due to the unstable political situation and the impact of the global slowdown. Particularly the military junta that had seized power in a
                              coup in December 2008 resulted in strong pressures for increased spending without an accompanying increase in revenues or external
                              financing. Consequently the basic primary balance declined from a 2.9 percent surplus in 2008 to a 4 percent deficit in 2009. Between 2008 and
                              2010, economic growth decelerated resulting in a 2 percent decline of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita. .

                              Poverty is predominantly a rural phenomenon, with 63 percent of the rural population living below the poverty line in 2005, against 31 percent for
                              the urban population. With high prevalence of poverty, household vulnerability to ecological and food price shocks is particularly high among the
                              poor. The budget share of essential food items (rice, maize, oil, fish, meat and vegetables) in total consumption is high (about 69 percent overall,
                              77 percent in rural areas), implying that increases in the relative price of essential food commodities - the result of global commodities prices
Public Disclosure Copy




                              increases, combined with a weak domestic production response - would have a significant negative impact, particularly on the poor and near
                              poor, as observed in 2008.

                              However, since the coming into power of the first democratically elected Government in 2010, efforts are underway to improve the fiscal balance
                              and stabilize the macroeconomic environment. In early 2010, the Ministry of the Economy and Finance started to close many ad hoc and extra-
                              budgetary accounts, reintegrating them into a single account at the National Treasury, strengthening at the same time procurement procedures,
                              and reviewing outstanding commitments that had not been paid. A census of public servants is also planned to identify and eliminate ghost
                              workers. Notwithstanding Guinea’s poor macroeconomic performance, there are some signs of economic recovery and stabilization. Thanks to
                              the normalization of the political situation and a push by an above average performance of agriculture and mining and high commodity prices,
                              Guinea’s economy is expected to grow by 3.6 percent in real terms in 2011 versus 1.9 percent in 2010


                         II. Sectoral and Institutional Context
                              Guinea registered a good crop year in 2010, but food insecurity remains a serious concern in the country. Aggregate cereal production is
                              estimated to be 2.85 million tons, of which 1.39 million tons of rice and 0.55 million tons of maize; production of cassava is about 1.06 million
                              tons. In spite of the good harvest, access to food continues to be negatively affected by insufficient growth of national supply and by high price
                              and inflation rates. Driven by a renewed and rapid depreciation of the Guinean franc, inflation is estimated to have accelerated from 7.9 percent
                              in 2009 to 15 percent in 2010 and even 18 percent in July 2011. The inflation-driven high food prices have forced Guinea onto the list of
                              "Countries Requiring External Assistance for Food?, as of June 2011. The situation is particularly worrisome because past episodes of steep
                              depreciations have resulted in severe food insecurity fueled by high prices. This was the case between 2006 and 2007 when the price of rice -
                              the staple food for Guineans- more than doubled in response to a strong depreciation of the local currency. The supply response of national
                              farmers to domestic market demand was weak because of their limited access to quality inputs, equipment and infrastructure, and an
                              unfavorable investment climate. In order to fill the domestic food gap, annual rice imports rose from 282,000 tons in 2005 to about 400,000 tons
                              in 2010.

                              Past household survey-based estimates indicate that poverty has increased, especially among the rural poor, as a result of food price inflation.
                              In particular, Wodon and Engelke (2008) have shown that a 50 percent increase in rice prices add another 1.5 to 3 percentage points to an
                              already high poverty headcount index (54 percent in 2005). Large numbers of people are also exposed to chronic food insecurity and
                              malnutrition. According to the WFP’s latest detailed survey of food security and vulnerability (April 2009), about 600,000 people suffered from
                              severe food insecurity, while an additional 1.7 million are considered at risk on a total population of 10 million people. High prices are also a
                              threat to macroeconomic and political stability. Given the above, there continues to be an urgent need to take actions to mitigate the impact of
                              higher food prices on poorer households while working to remove bottlenecks, provide incentives, and strengthen the supply response capacities
                             of the agricultural production system.

                             The Government’s Priority Action Plan and National Agricultural Investment Plan (NAIP) place a particular emphasis on the agricultural sector as
                             an engine of growth with an initial focus on achieving food security and rice self-sufficiency. In 2008 the Government formulated a strategy for
                             responding to the food price crisis consisting of two axes: (i) supporting access to food for the most vulnerable populations; and (ii) supporting
                             increases in agricultural production. To increase agricultural production in the short-term, emergency support would be provided to increase
                             smallholder access to fertilizers, improved seeds, veterinary inputs, and agricultural services. Over the medium-term support to intensify rice
Public Disclosure Copy




                             production and ensure national food supply was through investments in irrigation infrastructure and improved inputs supply systems, water
                             management, technology transfer, technical advisory services to producers and diversification of crop production.

                         III. Project Development Objectives
                             The project development objective is to increase smallholder productivity of targeted commodities through the timely provision of technological
                             packages and advisory services. The commodities targeted are rice, maize, cassava and traditional poultry.

                         IV. Project Description
                             Component Name
                             Rehabilitation and improved management of irrigation and storage infrastructures in selected rice producing areas
                             Access to improved inputs, technical advisory services and post-harvest equipment
                             Capacity Building, Project Coordination, and M&E


                         V. Financing (in USD Million)
                             For Loans/Credits/Others                                                            Amount
                             Borrower                                                                                  0.00
                             Global Food Crisis Response Program                                                      20.00
                             Special Financing                                                                         0.00
                             Financing Gap                                                                             0.00
                             Total                                                                                    20.00


                         VI. Implementation
                             The Project will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA). Coordination and implementation will be ensured by the same
                             actors who successfully implemented the initial GFRP-funded project, the PUAPA-1.

                             Overall project oversight and orientation is the responsibility of the Project Steering Committee (PSC), headed by the Ministry of Agriculture and
                             composed of representatives from various ministries and key stakeholder groups, including representatives of the private sector and producer
                             organizations. The PSC is responsible for (i) reviewing and approving the proposed annual consolidated work program and budget; (ii) reviewing
Public Disclosure Copy




                             annual progress report progress toward achieving the Project’s objective; and (iii) deciding on necessary corrective actions necessary relative to
                             project implementation.

                             Project coordination and technical responsibility restsThe National Agency of Agricultural Advisory Services (Agence Nationale de Promotion
                             Rural et du Conseil Agricole, ANPROCA). In particular, ANPROCA will be responsible for: (i) overall coordination and supervision of project
                             activities, (ii) planning of activities, in close collaboration with CNOP-G, DNGR and SNPV-DS, (iii) preparation and follow-up of an Annual Work
                             Plan and Budget (AWPB), (iv) satisfactory adherence to the PIM; (v) internal monitoring of implementation and consolidation of monitoring and
                             evaluation activities; (vi) communication with the various stakeholders regarding the project; and (vii) the consolidation of progress reports into
                             overall quarterly progress reports.

                             Fiduciary management will be ensured by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the existing World Bank-funded Village Communities Support
                             Program (PACV).

                             The institutions involved in implementation of the activities are: (i) the National Directorate of Rural Engineering (Direction Nationale de Génie
                             Rural, DNGR) which will be responsible for the implementation of Component 1; (ii) the National Confederation of Producer Organizations
                             (Conféderation Nationale des Organisations Paysannes de Guinée, CNOP-G) which will be responsible for the implementation of activities under
                             Component 2 (organizing the acquisition of commercial seed, fertilizers and herbicides, the distribution of the technology packages, and the
                             recovery of payments for the technology packages; and (iii) the National Directorate of Veterinary Services (Direction Nationale de Services
                             Vétérinaires, DNSV) will be responsible for the poultry vaccination campaign. All institutions will operated on the basis of a budgeted work
                             program agreement with ANPROCA and in accordance with the procedures described in the Project Implementation Manual. ANPROCA will
                             provide the agricultural advisory services necessary for project implementation.


                         VII. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

                             Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                                                             Yes             No
                             Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01                                                                                       ✖
                             Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04                                                                                                              ✖
                             Forests OP/BP 4.36                                                                                                                       ✖
                             Pest Management OP 4.09                                                                                                   ✖
                             Physical Cultural Resources OP/BP 4.11               ✖
                             Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10                        ✖
                             Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12              ✖
                             Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37                            ✖
Public Disclosure Copy




                             Projects on International Waterways OP/BP 7.50   ✖
                             Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP 7.60                ✖


                         VIII.Contact point
                            World Bank
                            Contact:   Jane C. Hopkins
                            Title:     Senior Agriculture Economist
                            Tel:       473-5887
                            Email:     jhopkins1@worldbank.org


                            Borrower/Client/Recipient
                            Name:      Government of Guinea
                            Contact:   Kerfalla Yansané
                            Title:     Minister, Ministry of Finance
                            Tel:       224-30-45-17-95
                            Email:

                            Implementing Agencies
                            Name:      Ministry of Agriculture
                            Contact:   Aly Conde
                            Title:     DG, ANPROCA
                            Tel:       224-65-50-50-00
                            Email:     condealy@hotmail.com

                            Name:      CNOP-G
                            Contact:   Ibrahima Bah
                            Title:     Coordinator, CNOP-G
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Tel:       224-62-59-34-38
                            Email:     Ibrahima_bahfr@yahoo.fr

                         IX. For more information contact:
                            The InfoShop
                            The World Bank
                            1818 H Street, NW
                            Washington, D.C. 20433
                            Telephone: (202) 458-4500
                            Fax: (202) 522-1500
                            Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
