                                                                   PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                                             CONCEPT STAGE

                                                                                                                                        Report No.: PIDC102
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Project Name                            Second Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project (P128309)
                         Region                                  AFRICA
                         Country                                 Guinea
                         Sector(s)                               Irrigation and drainage (40%), Crops (35%), Agricultural extension and research (25%)
                         Lending Instrument                      Specific Investment Loan
                         Project ID                              P128309
                         Borrower(s)                             Government of Guinea
                         Implementing Agency                     Ministry of Agriculture, CNOP-G
                         Environmental Category                  B-Partial Assessment
                         Date PID Prepared                       03-Apr-2012
                         Estimated Date of Appraisal Completion 30-Apr-2012
                         Estimated Date of Board Approval        22-May-2012
                         Concept Review Decision


                         I. Introduction and Context
                            Country Context
                            After years of military dictatorship and instability, and a disastrous transition under military rule during 2009-10, Guinea#s first
                            democratically elected president assumed power in December 2010. The main challenge for the new Government will be touse the
                            window of opportunity created by the presidential elections to transform the nature of the State, from a purveyor of private benefits
                            to be shared between social and ethnic groups, to an organization working for the benefit of the nation as a whole. The main goals
                            of the first phase of this transformation are: (i) good governance: parliamentary and local level elections; zero tolerance for
                            corruption; national reconciliation; and a big push to modernize the army; (ii) macro-economic stabilization, including reducing fiscal
                            deficits to sustainable levels, in ways that protect the poor, while increasing revenues by increasing the tax base and renegotiating
                            mining contracts; and a rapid attainment of the HIPC completion point; and (iii) the implementation of an emergency recovery
                            plan with emphasis on agriculture, the rehabilitation of infrastructure, and the social services.
Public Disclosure Copy




                            The last household survey undertaken in 2007 suggested that more than half (53 percent) of the population was living below the
                            poverty line, up from 49 percent in 2002, reflecting a negative per capita economic growth during the period. The proportion of the
                            rural population living below the poverty line was 63 percent, against 31 percent for the urban population. With high prevalence of
                            poverty, household vulnerability to negative shocks is also high. Vulnerability to food price shocks is particularly high among the
                            poor who spend a much larger share of their incomes on food
                            Sectoral and Institutional Context
                            Guinea registered a good crop year in 2010, but food insecurity remains a serious concern in the country. Compared to 2009,
                            aggregate cereal production is estimated to have increased by about 7 percent to 2.85 million tons. In spite of this good harvest,
                            access to food continues to be negatively affected by high price and inflation rates. Driven by a renewed and rapid depreciation of
                            the Guinean franc, inflation is estimated to have accelerated from 2009 to 15% in 2010. The inflation-driven high food prices have
                            forced Guinea onto the list of #Countries Requiring External Assistance for Food#, as of June 2011. The situation is particularly
                            worrisome because past episodes of steep depreciations have resulted in severe food insecurity fueled by high prices. This was the
                            case between 2006 and 2007 when the price of rice - the staple food for Guineans- more than doubled in response to a strong
                            depreciation of the local currency.

                            In addition, the rigidity of structural determinants of food insecurity in Guinea weakens the country#s ability to adapt to high food
                            prices. For example, the budget share of essential food items (rice, maize, oil, fish, meat and vegetables) in total consumption is
                            high (about 69 percent overall, 77 percent in rural areas), implying that increases in the relative price of essential food commodities
                            # the result of global commodities prices increases # would have a significant negative impact, particularly on the poor and near
                            poor, as observed in 2008. This is specifically the case for imported rice, given that the consumption of rice accounts for 48.5
                            percent of the population#s calorie intake. Under current projections, imported rice could see its price on the domestic market go
                            up by 45 percent in nominal terms.

                            Inflation and high food prices have shown negative impact on poverty in past. Past household survey-based estimates indicate that
                            poverty has increased, especially among the rural poor, as a result of the acceleration in food price inflation. In particular, Wodon
                            and Engelke (2008) have shown that a 50 percent increase in rice prices add another 1.5 to 3 percentage points to an already high
                            poverty headcount index (54 percent in 2005). Large numbers of people are also exposed to chronic food insecurity and
                            malnutrition. According to the WFP#s latest detailed survey of food security and vulnerability (April 2009), about 600,000 people
                           located mostly in Kindia, Labe and N#Zerekore regions suffered from severe food insecurity, while an additional 1.7 million are
                           considered at risk. High prices are also a threat to macroeconomic and political stability. Given the above, there continues to be an
                           urgent need to take actions to mitigate the impact of higher food prices on poorer households while working to remove bottlenecks,
                           provide incentives, and strengthen the supply response capacities of the agricultural production system.

                           The Government#s Priority Action Plan places a particular emphasis on the agricultural sector as an engine of growth with an initial
Public Disclosure Copy




                           focus on achieving food security and rice self-sufficiency. The requested grant will provide resources to scale-up and complement
                           the activities of the Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project (Project d#Urgence d#Appui à la Productivité Agricole,
                           PUAPA), a USD 5 million GFRP project approved in 2008. In particular, it will: (i) scale-up the distribution of inputs, in addition to
                           rice, to smallholder maize, cassava and poultry producers using the institutional arrangements successfully piloted under the
                           PUAPA and (ii) target the rehabilitation and sustainable management of about 3,600 hectares of smallholder irrigated rice to further
                           enhance yields and increase the efficiency of input packages.

                           In 2008 the Government formulated a strategy for responding to the food price crisis consisting of two axes: (i) supporting access to
                           food for the most vulnerable populations; and (ii) supporting increases in agricultural production. To increase agricultural
                           production in the short-term, emergency support would be provided to increase smallholder access to fertilizers, improved seeds,
                           veterinary inputs, and agricultural services. Over the medium-term support to intensify rice production and ensure national food
                           supply was through investments in irrigation infrastructure and improved inputs, water management, technology transfer, technical
                           assistance to producers and diversification of crop production.

                            The PUAPA was prepared in support of the Government#s short-term strategy. The project#s development objective is to increase
                           smallholder productivity on 35,000 hectares of rain fed rice through the timely provision of improved inputs (seeds, fertilizers, a nd
                           pesticid es) and technical advisory services. In particular the project targeted: (i) the production of 2000 tons of certified seed by
                           scaling up the farmer seed multiplication network; (ii) the procurement of 2000 tons of fertilizer; and (iii) the distribut ion of input
                           packages to 70,000 smallholder farmers.

                           The project was approved in September 2008 and the initial deposit of US$ 2.0 million to designated account was made October
                           15, 2008 Following the military take-over December 23, 2008, the Bank#s policy regarding de facto governments (OP 7.30) went
                           into effect, freezing disbursements (withdrawal applications) until it was lifted on January 19, 2011. This, in addition to periodic
                           blocks on project accounts imposed by the military government, made it difficult to implement the emergency project activities as
                           originally planned and targets were scaled back to correspond to the funds available in the designated account: 400 tons of fertilizer
                           procured, 500 tons of improved seed produced, and input packages distributed to about 16,000 smallholders for production on
                           8,300 hectares.

                           Prior to the current cropping season, 400 tons of fertilizer, 4,710 liters of pesticides and 500 tons of improved seed had been
                           procured and distributed to 23,825 smallholder rice producers operating on about 8,075 hectares. The cost recovery rate for the
                           fertilizer is about 80% (sold at subsidized rate and reimbursed in cash at the end of the season) and for the improved seed, 91%
Public Disclosure Copy




                           (not subsidized and reimbursed in-kind at the end of the cropping season). A sample of beneficiary plots registered yield increases
                           of 138% (from 1.3 tons/ha to 2.8 tons/ha) in Lower Guinea, 60% in Upper Guinea (from 1.5 tons/ha to 2.4 tons//ha) and 92% in
                           Forest Guinea (from 1.3 tons/ha to 2.5 tons/ha) for producers using the complete technology package. The results of PUAPA will be
                           consolidated and scaled-up under the proposed project, providing the framework for a sustainable market-based mechanism for
                           smallholder input access.
                           Relationship to CAS
                           The Transitional Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (TPRSP) provides a clear statement of the government's commitment to
                           poverty reduction. The TPRSP, an extension of the full PRSP formulated in 2007, provides the framework for action towards
                           povertyreduction in 2011-2012. The poverty reduction strategy is based on three main pillars: (i) to sustain faster economic growth
                           and create income-earning and employment opportunities, particularly for the rural poor; (ii) to improve and extend access to basic
                           services; and (iii) to improve governance and strengthen institutional and human capacity. Agriculture and mining are expected to
                           provide the key source of growth. In agriculture the objectives are to make better use of the large potential in expanding rice
                           production, enhance food security through diversification and better extension services for small holders, and foster agro-business
                           that can transform and also exports non-traditional export.

                           The Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for the 2011-2012 period was approved March 24, 2011. The ISN supports the government#s
                           priorities of making agriculture a key engine of growth with an initial focus on food security and smallholder rice and food crop
                           productivity to support the Government#s Priority Action Plan.

                         II. Proposed Development Objective(s)
                           Proposed Development Objective(s) (From PCN)
                           The development objective of grant is to improve the productivity and value-added of targeted commodities. The commodities
                           targeted are rice, maize, and cassava and traditional poultry. They were chosen based on the following factors: (i) importance in
                           the diet of the Guinean population, (ii) widely cultivated by smallholders, and (iii) an important source of income for women
                           (traditional poultry).
                           Key Results (From PCN)
                            Expected project results include: (i) a 25% average increase in yields of rice, maize and cassava for beneficiary farmers, (ii) a 50%
                            reduction of the mortality rate of traditional poultry for beneficiary farmers, (iii) a 25% increase in the production oftargeted
                            commodities in project areas; and (iv) a 10% increase in the quantity of transformed production (e.g. milled and parboiled rice) in
                            project areas.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         III. Preliminary Description
                            Concept Description
                            Activities under the proposed project will be organized around the following three components: (i) Rehabilitation and improved
                            management of irrigation infrastructure in selected rice producing areas: (ii) Access to improved inputs and post-harvest equipment;
                            and (iii) Capacity Building, Project Coordination and M&E.

                            Component 1: Rehabilitation and improved management of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in selected rice producing areas
                            (USD 7.8 million). This component aims at increasing the productivity of irrigated rice production systems in targeted areas through
                            the rehabilitation of infrastructure and improved management. Specific objectives include: (i) improved water control through the
                            restoration of degraded works and equipment that will allow abandoned or low yielding perimeters to be used productively; (ii)
                            restructuring water management and maintenance systems by strengthening the technical capacity of irrigation management
                            organizations; and (iii) improved storage and marketing capacity through the rehabilitation and construction of storage facilities and
                            threshing platforms, and strengthening the management capacity of the producer groups.

                            In particular, the component will finance: (i) the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure totaling 3,620 hectares, (ii) the
                            rehabilitation and construction of post-harvest infrastructure (storage and drying/threshing facilities), and (iii) organizational support
                            and capacity building for water management and maintenance of the rehabilitated infrastructure (perimeters, storage facilities, etc.)
                            so as to ensure sustainability.

                            Organizational and capacity building activities supported by the component include: (i) the formation and technical training of the
                            producer groups and water user associations in charge of the water management and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
                            infrastructure; (ii) the establishment of an annual system of maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities including the programming
                            and implementation of maintenance programs; (iii) estimation of hydraulic fees and establishment of an efficient system for the
                            management of recovered funds to be exclusively devoted to maintenance; and (iv) organization and training committees in charge
                            of the management of the storage facilities.

                            The irrigation infrastructures to be rehabilitated have already been selected among a long list of sites identified by FAO as easy to
                            rehabilitate at a cost of approximately 1,000 to 1,500 USD/ha. The sites are distributed regionally as indicated in table 1 below. The
                            selection of intervention sites were based on specific criteria that will allow the project development objectives to be reached. These
                            criteria include: (i) level of commitment/engagement of beneficiary producer organizations to sustainable maintenance, (ii)
Public Disclosure Copy




                            accessibility of sites, (iii) the potential for increases in productivity, and (iv) the unit cost associated with the rehabilitation.

                             To arrive at the final identification of project intervention sites, and a more precise estimate of the size and cost of the rehabilitation
                            work and postharvest investments, the following studies will be launched as soon as possible: (a) identification of sites to be
                            rehabilitated by rigorously applying the selection criteria, and in coordination with extension services (ANPROCA) and the producer
                            organizations (unions and federations); (b) prioritization of the identified work and postharvest investments, technical specifications
                            and evaluation of costs; (c) preparation of the tender documents. Preparatory studies will be entrusted to the National Directorate
                            of Rural Engineering (DNGR) which will appoint a national coordinator who will be supported by the technical offices of Rural
                            Engineering (BTGR/SPGR) at the prefecture level.

                            Component 2: Access to improved inputs and post-harvest equipment (USD 9.9 million). This component aims to improve
                            smallholder access to improved inputs and food processing equipment, enabling them to increase the yields of targeted
                            commodities and their value-added.

                            Sub-component 2.1: Seed multiplication and distribution of technology packages (USD 8.3 million): This sub-compone nt expands
                            the successful farmer-based seed multiplication system for rice that was supported by the PUAPA and disseminates improved
                            technology packages and advisory services to smallholders operating on 3,600 hectares of irrigated rice and 55,000 hectare sof
                            rainfed rice and maize. This subcomponent will also finance a vaccination campaign for local poultry which will help reduce the
                            mortality rate by 30 to 40%. A summary of the composition of the input packages and annual distribution is provided in Table 2
                            below.

                            As with the PUAPA, the proposed project will work through the Confederation Nationale des Organisations Paysannes de Guinée
                            (CNOP-G) and its member federations and unions. The CNOP-G will be responsible for the distribution of the input packages
                            following procedures piloted under the PUAPA. Inputs are sold to members on a #cropping-season# credit basis. Seed is
                            reimbursed in-kind at the end of the cropping season. Fertilizers and herbicides are sold at subsidized prices (based on the
                            government-set rate) and reimbursed in cash at the end of the cropping season. The recovered funds (lodged in a separate
                            account) are used to capitalize a revolving fund for the purchase of inputs in future seasons. An evaluation of these procedures
                            and a study detailing the proposed management and use of the revolving fund (including annual audit procedures) is being carried
                            out under the on-going PUAPA. Results will be incorporated into the implementation manual of the proposed project.

                            Sub-component 2.2. Support for post-harvest processing to increase value-added (USD 1.6 million): The sub-component aims to
                            increase the value-added of agricultural products by improving small-scale primary processing activities. More specifically it aims to
                            develop economic opportunities for rural women who are the main actors in agricultural transformation, and improve the quantity
                            and quality of products processed locally
Public Disclosure Copy




                            This sub-component will finance (i) matching grants to women#s groups for the acquisition of small-scale processing equipment for
                            the production of parboiled rice and the processing of cassava into flour, (ii) training for members of the beneficiary groups in
                            management and marketing techniques, (iii) training of artisans for repairing the equipment, and (iv) possible studies and
                            assessments for the establishment of food processing micro-enterprises.

                            Component 3. Capacity Building, Project Coordination, and M&E (USD 2.3 million). This component will ensure th e effective
                            management and coordination of the project and finance capacity building activities for key stakeholders along the supply chain.
                            The project will facilitate the upgrading of technical skills of key staff and farmers involved in the process. Fiduciary oversight will be
                            provided by the fiduciary unit of the Bank-funded national CDD program (the PACV).

                            In particular, the component will finance (i) the preparation and implementation of a plan to strengthen the capacity of staff directly
                            involved in the implementation of the project including the CNOP-G, ANPROCA (Agence National de la Promotion Rurale et du
                            Conseil Agricole), DNA (Direction National de l# Agriculture), and DNSV (Direction National de la Protection des Végétaux) (ii) the
                            rehabilitation of demonstration farms at the National Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Schools (Ecoles Nationales d#Agriculture
                            et d#Elevage, ENAE) of Tolo, Koba, Macenta, and Bordot-Kankan for continuing education of extension agents and farmers (iii)
                            additional contractual personnel, operational costs and the necessary equipment for the project management, and (iv) supervision
                            and monitoring, internal and external assessment studies, and studies to establish baseline and monitor the evolution of the
                            indicators.


                         IV. Safeguard Policies that might apply

                            Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                                          Yes            No           TBD
                            Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01                                                                   ✖
                            Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04                                                                                          ✖
                            Forests OP/BP 4.36                                                                                                   ✖
                            Pest Management OP 4.09                                                                               ✖
                            Physical Cultural Resources OP/BP 4.11                                                                               ✖
                            Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10                                                                                        ✖
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12                                                                   ✖
                            Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37                                                                                            ✖
                            Projects on International Waterways OP/BP 7.50                                                        ✖
                            Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP 7.60                                                                                ✖


                         V. Tentative financing
                            Financing Source                                                                                   Amount
                            Borrower                                                                                               0.00
                            Global Food Crisis Response Program                                                                   20.00
                            Special Financing                                                                                      0.00
                            Financing Gap                                                                                          0.00
                            Total                                                                                                 20.00


                         VI. Contact point
                            World Bank
                            Contact:   Jane C. Hopkins
                            Title:     Senior Agriculture Economist
                            Tel:       473-5887
                            Email:     jhopkins1@worldbank.org


                            Borrower/Client/Recipient
                            Name:      Government of Guinea
                            Contact:
                            Title:
                            Tel:
                            Email:
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Implementing Agencies
                            Name:      Ministry of Agriculture
                            Contact:
                            Title:
                            Tel:
                            Email:

                            Name:      CNOP-G
                            Contact:
                            Title:
                            Tel:
                            Email:


                         VII. For more information contact:
                            The InfoShop
                            The World Bank
                            1818 H Street, NW
                            Washington, D.C. 20433
                            Telephone: (202) 458-4500
                            Fax: (202) 522-1500
                            Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Public Disclosure Copy
