      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



                                                                                                         Report Number : ICRR0020188


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P128309                                                GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj.

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Guinea                                                 Agriculture



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                              Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-12755                                              31-Dec-2014                                                    20,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  03-Aug-2012                                           31-Jul-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                          Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                     0.00                                        20,000,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                      0.00                                        18,838,926.81

  Actual                                                                  0.00                                        18,838,926.81




 Sector(s)
 Irrigation and drainage(40%):Crops(35%):Agricultural extension and research(25%)

 Theme(s)
 Global food crisis response(100%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator       Group
 Keith Robert A. Oblitas             John R. Eriksson                   Christopher David Nelson     IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    To increase smallholder productivity of targeted commodities in the Intervention Areas.
    Source: Food Prices Crisis Response Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
    (The PAD’s statement of objectives is identical.)
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The Second Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project (PUAPA-2) had three components:
     1. Rehabilitation and improved management of irrigation and storage infrastructure in selected rice producing areas.
     Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) $6.4 million; Actual costs - $5.9 million.

          1 Increasing the productivity of irrigated rice production systems through rehabilitation and improved management of irrigation and
          drainage infrastructure. This included improved water control from rehabilitation of degraded works, and provision of equipment to
          improve the use and productivity of abandoned or low-yielding perimeters; and strengthening the capacity of water user associations to
          manage and maintain irrigation infrastructure.
          2 Improving storage and marketing capacity through the rehabilitation and construction of storage facilities and threshing platforms, and
          strengthening the capacity of farmer groups to manage storage and marketing facilities.


     2. Access to improved inputs, technical support services, and post-harvest equipment.
     Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) $12.1million; Actual costs - $11.3 million.

          1 Consolidation of the farmer-based seed multiplication system established under PUAPA-2’s predecessor project (PUAPA-1),
          including adding maize and cassava to the rice seed multiplication program and distribution of improved seed, fertilizer and herbicide; a
          seasonal credit system operated by the National Confederation of Farmer Organizations; and improved agricultural extension services.
          Key activities included: acquisition of commercial certified seed, fertilizer and herbicides; distribution of farm input kits and recovery of
          costs; provision of supplementary technical extension services by the National Agency of Agricultural Advisory Services (ANPROCA);
          training of National Confederation of Farmer Organizations and ANPROCA staff involved with the project; rehabilitation of
          demonstration farms; and, acquisition of 8 million poultry vaccines.
          2 Support to improve post-harvest processing in high production zones through: acquisition of small-scale processing equipment;
          training of beneficiary groups in techniques for management, processing and marketing; and studies and management assessment for
          the establishment of small-scale agro-processing industries.


     3. Capacity building, project coordination and M&E.
     Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) $1.5 million; Actual costs - $1.7 million.
     Ensuring effective management, coordination and M&E for managing the project; and building management capacity of the National
     Confederation of Farmer Organizations, ANPROCA, and the departments of rural engineering and development strategy.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     (I) implementation, restructuring and extension dates
     PUAPA-2 was Approved on August 3, 2012 and became Effective on November 12, 2012. The original closing date was December 31,
     2014, about 2 ½ years after Approval. The actual closing date was on July 31, 2015, seven months beyond original expectations. There
     were two project restructurings, both to extend the closing date: (i) on November 25, 2014 when the closing date was extended by five
     months; and (ii) on May 20, 2015 when the closing date was further extended by two months. The extensions were to complete or
     consolidate various works and activities: completing rehabilitation of two major irrigation schemes; construction of four warehouses and
     10 threshing/drying facilities; capacity building of beneficiaries in management of infrastructure; continuing the advisory services to further
     improve productivity; and completing infrastructure for the five national agricultural training schools.
     (ii) Costs and financing
     Project costs (the trust fund) at project completion were $18.8 million, some 94 percent of the costs estimated at appraisal of $20.0
     million. Financing was through a Grant of $20 million from the Food Price Crisis Response Multi-Donor Trust Fund under the Global Food
     Crisis Response Program. PUAPA-2 was a follow-on from the first crisis response project (PUAPA-1) which had received $5 million
     under the same trust fund.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   PUAPA-2 addressed a problem which was both a chronic vulnerability: (i) food insecurity, especially for Guinea’s large impoverished
   population; and (ii) a stagnant agriculture sector unable to significantly raise productivity even in the face of high agricultural commodity prices.
   Guinea is one of the poorest countries in the world, with 53 percent of its population living below the poverty line. Basic foodstuffs constitute
   about 68 percent and 77 percent of national and rural household expenditure budgets, making the population particularly vulnerable to food
   price increases. The food price crisis saw a major increase in consumer food prices, even resulting in riots in the particularly bad years of 2008
   and 2009. However, farmers’ response to high rice (and other commodity) prices was weak, due to limited access to good quality agricultural
   inputs, equipment and infrastructure. This situation places Guinea’s agricultural productivity as a low performer relative to other comparable
   countries. Increasing agricultural productivity is the most direct means to emerge from this cycle of food insecurity, poverty, and a low
   performing and unresponsive agricultural economy.
   Faced with this situation, raising Guinea’s agricultural productivity has become central in both the Government’s and the Bank’s development
   programs. The Bank’s Interim Strategy Note for 2011-2012 supported Government’s Priority Action Plan for agricultural investment and food
   security. The focus is on increasing agricultural productivity, as reflected in several strategy documents, notably: the National Poverty
   Reduction Strategy Paper for 2012-2015, and the Country Partnership Strategy (FY14-17). It is clear from the assessment above that these
   papers recognized a critical need – to significantly increase agricultural productivity. Thus, while the project objectives would have been better
   framed if the broad thrusts of the PUAPA-2 approach had also been indicated, the project objectives did recognize Guinea’s central
   agricultural need - to boost agricultural productivity. PUAPA-2’s Objectives were Substantially Relevant.




   Rating
   Substantial


b. Relevance of Design



      PUAPA-2’s design was well focused on achieving the project’s objectives. The components were designed to improve agricultural
      productivity, and the monitorable indicators provided a means to assess achievement of outcomes and intermediate outcomes. The
      activities planned for the three project components were based on their expected contributions to PUAPA-2’s productivity enhancement
      goal. The results framework (PAD, Annex 1) could have been improved, however - the presentation is more a timetable of targeted
      actions than an articulation of outputs and their linkages to outcome.
      The combination of improved seed, agricultural extension, fertilizer and herbicides, training of farmer organizations, and seasonal credit, a
      number of which had been proven under PUAPA-1, provided a well-tested package that could provide a rapid improvement in
      productivity. And rehabilitation of irrigation, or construction of other simple infrastructure such as markets and threshing floors, could make
      a longer-term impact. Irrigation systems were decidedly dilapidated – the large Siguri irrigation system had not been rehabilitated since
      the 1990s, and irrigation facilities at the five National Agricultural and Animal Husbandry schools had not been rehabilitated since 1956. A
      sensible aspect of the Project’s design was the extensive use of the institutional capacity, implementation experience and lessons learned
      from PUAPA-1; amongst them: use of village associations to distribute input packages had been found more effective than distribution by
      Government; farmers had been found willing to pay for inputs; and seed sector institutions needed strengthening.
      A notable feature of the project was the many institutions involved – about 10 are mentioned in the PAD. This was an unavoidable
      consequence of a decision to use the existing mandates of the Government institutions for each project activity. While this added
      complexity to the project, and one option might have been to reduce the scope of the project’s activities, it had the merit of building
      capacity of the institutions within the existing government structure. This proved a sound decision as, in the event, the project’s physical
      objectives were largely achieved (section 4 of this ICR Review).
      Two questions are nevertheless posed by PUAPA-2’s design. First, design could have been stronger in its exit strategy and arrangements
      for longer term development of a productive agricultural sector. As is well articulated in the ICR, growth of agricultural productivity is a
      critical need in Guinea. But the need is not limited to the immediate aftermath of the food price crisis. Rather, a sustained drive and scale-
      up of the program over time might have been a desirable part of the vision of the project beyond project completion (PUAPA-2 covered
      less than 4 percent of Guinea’s total rice area, and less than 6 percent of national maize area). A strategic framework for specific
      arrangements to continue supporting productivity enhancement after completion of PUAPA-2, or a provisional outline of likely
      arrangements to be made to exit from the sector, would have set a broader and longer-term perspective and could have been planned for
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



           as a study in the project’s design. (Then, with a 2 ½ year project period, there would have been sufficient time during project
           implementation to consider appropriate developments after the project.) And yet the PAD contains only limited discussion of an exit
           strategy and post-project development. Similarly, the ICR, beyond referring to creation of management committees for maintenance, and
           brief reference to a follow-up “local” project (ICR, paras 36, 37 and 41), is also limited in reference to future development. A broader
           vision, even only in conceptual terms, might have helped set the project in a longer-term perspective. For instance, given the largely
           successful development approach established under PUAPA-2, scaling up the program would have been one development option that
           might have been considered.
           While emergency response projects are characteristically concerned with short term actions to relieve a crisis, in PUAPA-2’s case, quick
           response and a longer term vision were not incompatible, and would have better fitted the rural sector needs articulated in Bank and
           Government strategy (refer section 3a of this ICR Review).
           The second question (which has procedural considerations beyond the project itself, and is not taken account of in the ratings of this ICR
           Review), concerns the compatibility of the short duration of the emergency response Grant with the longer time period that could
           reasonably be expected to be necessary for implementing PUAPA-2. As stated on the ICR (para 12) – “the project was an emergency
           food crisis response …… but it performed and delivered like a regular Bank operation.” In particular, this applied to PUAPA-2’s irrigation
           rehabilitation and institution strengthening components. More typically (OP/BP 8.0 “Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies”), an
           emergency operation related to agricultural recovery is concerned with short-term actions (such as input distribution) to stimulate
           productivity. Yet launching, and as quickly as possible, of a sustained drive to significantly raise agricultural growth, is central to the
           Bank’s and Government’s development strategy for Guinea (ICR paras 1-4 and paras 38 to 41).
           The project Task Team has advised IEG that they were aware, and responded, to one of OP/BP 8.0’s guidelines which related to the
           project time period (no other restrictions were referred to). To accommodate the Guidelines, the project period was set at Appraisal at 2 ½
           years (Board approval to the original closing date). In the event, project closure was extended by seven months. Nevertheless, a three
           year project which includes irrigation infrastructure, multiple institutions, some of them new, unfamiliarity with procurement practices, and
           significant institutional strengthening is not unduly lengthy. Alternatively, Infrastructure and institutional strengthening could have been
           removed from PUAPA-2, probably enabling project completion in 2 ½ years. But this would have significantly reduced the project’s
           benefits – both irrigation and institutional development are fundamental to Guinea’s agricultural productivity. International experience is
           that, in general, rehabilitation of dilapidated and non-functional irrigation systems has high impact on productivity, usually starting even in
           the first season after rehabilitation.
           There is, thus, a disconnect between the design of PUAPA-2 and the guidance on project duration under the Food Price Crisis Response
           Multi-Donor Trust Fund, the project’s financing vehicle. PUAPA-2 was responsive in design to the identified priority need to rehabilitate
           infrastructure that could considerably boost productivity, if not in the immediate, at least within 2 to 4 years. But the Grant’s duration under
           the Trust Fund’s requirements did not quite match the project’s time requirements for practical and effective implementation of its
           infrastructure and institutional investments.
           Summary of relevance of design.
           The project was strong in providing the means to reach its objectives, with practical implementation features and institutional
           arrangements, although the results framework could have better articulated causes and effects. The project’s infrastructure components
           were valuable as part of the project’s productivity enhancement thrust, even though some extra time was required to complete the
           structures. The limited identification of the PUAPA program’s future strategy and/or devising an exit strategy at project closure, is a
           significant shortfall given the need, as articulated in Bank and Government strategy documents, to provide a continuous drive to increase
           agricultural productivity. Due, to this gap, PUAPA-2’s Relevance of Design is assessed Modest.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To increase smallholder productivity of targeted commodities in the Intervention Areas.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)




 (NB: PUAPA-2 has a single objective - the above, thus, is the overall project objective as in section 2,)

Rationale
PUAPA-2 achieved its objective to “increase smallholder productivity of targeted commodities.” The outcome for the targeted commodities
(rice, maize and cassava) was yield increases ranging from 167 percent above target for maize to 97 percent for irrigated rice (refer table).
Changes in Agricultural Productivity
    Commodity                  Baseline yield         Target Yield          Actual Yield           Actual as percent of    Actual as percent of
                               (tons/ha)              (t/ha)                (t/ha)                 baseline yield (%)      target yield (%)
    Rain-fed rice              1.0                    1.6                   2.1                    210%                    131%
    Irrigated rice             2.5                    3.6                   3.5                    197%                    97%
    Maize                      1.6                    2.1                   3.5                    219%                    167%
    Cassava                    8.0                    20.0                  23.0                   287%                    115%
The number of beneficiaries was also more than anticipated – 219,000 beneficiaries compared with 180,000 estimated at appraisal. Of
these, 40 percent were female (reaching women was another intention of the project, though not stated as part of the objectives).
Outputs
The means (outputs) supporting the productivity achievements were also at or above targets: irrigation schemes rehabilitated reached the
planned 4,620 ha, and 55 operational water user associations were established (against the target of 57); the 23 post-harvest storage
facilities and 47 post-harvest drying platforms also reached appraisal intentions. Production of seed exceeded expectations: irrigated rice
seed amounted to 335 tons compared with a target of 185 tons; rain-fed rice 3,600 tons (target 3,000 tons); maize 853 tons (target 750
tons); and 2,450,000 cassava seedlings (target 1,500,000 seedlings). As planned, about 8,000,000 poultry vaccines were administered.
Crop areas under improved technologies reached 59,000 ha for rain-fed rice (target 58,000 ha); 34,000 ha for maize (target 25,000 ha);
and 104,000 ha for cassava (target 92,000). Also, 5 agricultural training centers were rehabilitated, the same as the number targeted; 4,700
agricultural extension centers and producer groups were trained (target 3,900); and 400 women were trained in agro-processing (target
300). Two targets were not achieved: fertilizer distribution was 1,500 tons – 40 percent of the target; and herbicides distributed 23,000 tons
– 45 percent of the targeted 51,000. There were several reasons for the shortfalls with farm inputs: a decision in 2014 by APROMA to hold
back procurement of fertilizer and herbicides based on estimated limited purchases by farmers in the relatively short time-period before the
project closing date (a decision made before project extension); some limited availability of inputs from government supply sources; and the
Ebola outbreak, limiting mobility of project staff and farmer organization personnel.
The project also benefitted the implementing agencies. Through training and "learning by doing," the project’s coordinating agency,
ANPROCA, was most directly affected, but the technical capabilities of the other involved institutions were also strengthened.
Summary of Efficacy
In summary, the project’s objectives as regards productivity were at or above expectations, and this is likely to have been due to the
physical activities under the project, most of which were implemented at or above the project’s targets. As outcomes (yields) were well
above targeted increases, and were twice the baseline yields, PUAPA-2’s Efficacy is rated High.




Rating
High



5. Efficiency

PUAPA-2’s economic rate of return was estimated in the ICR to be 47 percent. This compares with the appraisal estimate of 17 percent. The
difference is likely to be due to two main factors: the actual number of beneficiaries was 22 percent more than the appraisal estimate; and
average yield increases were also higher than the initial estimates.
In terms of operational efficiency, cost-effectiveness was good – the project exceeded physical implementation targets yet project costs at
completion were 94 percent of the appraisal estimate.
The main inefficiency could be considered the aggregate seven months of extensions of the project period, an additional 24 percent to the
planned project period of 28 months. The primary purpose of the extensions were to complete irrigation works. There would likely have been
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



 time to complete the works within the original project period if the root of the problems –very inefficient procurement processes and clearances
 at the beginning of the project (section 11 b)– had been resolved. Nevertheless, some perspective is appropriate. PUAPA-2 was, in effect,
 designed as a standard Bank investment project including infrastructure and institutional changes, rather than a fast response emergency
 project of short-term actions.
 In view of the project’s strong economic benefits and cost-effectiveness, and given the tight timetable within which the project was assumed to
 be able to be completed, the overall Efficiency of PUAPA-2 was Substantial.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                Rate Available?              Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                                100.00
 Appraisal                                                                  17.00
                                                                                                                Not Applicable

                                                                                                                100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                               47.00
                                                                                                                Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The relevance of PUAPA-2’s objectives was substantial. The food price crisis had raised prices of basic foodstuffs, and had exposed the
vulnerability of Guinea to future food scarcity shocks. Guinea’s vulnerability was further exacerbated by its particularly high poverty. Yet low
agricultural yields had restrained efforts to emerge from this poverty/price vulnerability/low productivity trap. By raising agricultural productivity of
basic food-stuffs, the welfare of farmers and consumers could improve and the country could become more self-reliant in these strategically
important commodities. PUAPA-2’s design was well focused on achieving the project’s objectives, used existing institutions, and was technically
sound in infrastructure and agricultural features. A weakness, however, was the absence of an exit or scale-up strategy - a conceptual framework
to scale-up the program after PUAPA-2’s closure, or to withdraw from the program. Therefore, the relevance of design was modest. However,
efficacy was high. The project achieved its objectives, implementing the intended project actions, and reaching yields generally exceeding
targets. Additionally, the involved institutions were strengthened. PUAPA-2’s efficiency was substantial. While, to complete the project, closure
was extended by 7 months, the project’s economic returns were high, it was cost-effective, and beneficiary incomes were improved. Overall,
PUAPA-2 performed well, and its Outcome was Satisfactory.




a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



There are two main risks. The first relates to the unclear strategy for taking the PUAPA program forwards (or, for exiting without reducing the
productivity gains made under PUAPA-2). The input distribution mechanism may be most at risk. As commented on in the ICR (page 18), “no
strategy is in place to phase out the input distribution mechanism.” The lack of a strategy for input distribution would likely impact both on the
productivity gains made under PUAPA-2, and on a means to scale-up if that is an intention. The ICR comments that a planned future study will
provide the “requisite strategy and plan for the way forward.” But the quality of its eventual recommendations cannot yet be ascertained. The
other main risk is political – the volatile governance of the country creates uncertainties regarding future support and financing for project
institutions, although this risk is mitigated by the widespread interest in the PUAPA-2 program going beyond particular political interests. PUAPA-
2’s Risk to Development Outcome is Substantial.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The Bank recognized the critical need to increase agricultural productivity, and the project’s design was well suited to achieve this objective.
     The technical and administrative detailing of project components and activities provided a good base for project implementation. The team
     successfully adopted the lessons and experience from PUAPA-1, including continuation of the institutions and most of its implementation
     arrangements. The team also had a good rapport with Government and the implementing agencies, and facilitated coordination between
     them.
     A strategic shortfall was the lack of consideration of sustainability and scale-up needs beyond the project. There is no discussion in the PAD
     regarding possible options for taking the PUAPA program beyond its very short-term horizon, or for exiting the sector if that might be
     appropriate. The ICR, beyond discussion of infrastructure maintenance committees (page 10), also says little on post-project options. A
     commentary in the PAD on post-project options, and a study financed under the project might have been a better approach, and could have
     motivated more consideration during project supervision of post-project needs and opportunities. As in other respects entry performance was
     good, overall Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision


      Task management was based in Conakry, and this proximity enabled close interaction with the project implementing agencies and
      Government. Supervision was intensive, following the needs of the project as issues arose. Given the short-term nature of the project, quick
      adjustments to resolve difficulties and expedite progress were essential, and were provided by the team. Some solutions, such as the
      revision of procurement processes, were innovative. Close collaboration with project personnel helped this proactive orientation. Attesting to
      the quality of supervision are the physical achievements of the project where nearly all targets were met. The Bank could have done more in
      motivating the National Office for Studies and Planning to undertake its responsibilities for coordinating the project impact evaluation
      studies. Nevertheless, given the Bank’s strong performance in other aspects, the Quality of Supervision is rated Satisfactory.
      Taking both Quality at Entry and Supervision Performance together, the Overall Quality of Performance of the Bank was Moderately
      Satisfactory.




     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



   Moderately Satisfactory



9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   Government was committed to the project, providing resources and back-up as needed. Adequate counterpart funds were provided. There
   was strong collaboration between Government and the Bank, and Government personnel accompanied all supervision missions.
   Government facilitated the distribution of farm inputs, and continued this after project closure. It also helped resolve any collaboration
   difficulties between the implementing institutions. A key issue was the slow Government approvals for procurement (section 11 b), which
   significantly slowed project implementation until a streamlined process was introduced. Nevertheless, in other respects Government was
   proactive and effective. Government Performance was Moderately Satisfactory.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance


    One of the institutions – the National Office for Studies and Planning – did not undertake the impact evaluation studies under its charge.
    The other implementing agencies – amongst them: the National Directorate of Rural Engineering, the National Veterinary Service, the
    National Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Schools, the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, Economy, and Technical Education, the
    Village Communities Support Program, the Institute of Agronomy Research, the National Confederation of Farmer Organizations, and
    the National Confederation of Guinea Producers - provided the initiatives and commitment to succeed with their responsibilities, and for
    the project to reach its productivity targets. The project coordinating agency, ANPROCA, merits particular comment. It was an effective
    facilitator and guide for the agencies involved. This was a considerable challenge given the number of participating agencies. The
    participating agencies and ANPROCA are reported in the end of project Beneficiary Assessment Survey to have sought and benefited
    from the learning acquired from implementing the project and from its training programs. On balance, ANPROCA and the other agencies
    involved did well, and the Implementing Agencies Performance is rated Satisfactory.
    Taking the performance of Government and the Implementing Agencies together, the overall Performance of the Borrower was
    Moderately Satisfactory.




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E system’s design comprised two levels: internal routine monitoring of project activities carried out by ANPROCA in collaboration with
   the main implementing agencies; and (ii) external, independent monitoring under the charge of the National Office for Studies and Planning with
   its decentralized field offices. Three Impact Evaluations (baseline, mid-term and end-of-project) were also planned, again under the coordination
   of the National Office for Studies and Planning, but which were to be carried out by an external service provider.




b. M&E Implementation
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



   As intended, ANPROCA consolidated M&E data based on routine provision of information from its field staff and from the other implementing
   agencies. The National Office for Studies and Planning, due to weak capacity in executive functions, did not carry out its external monitoring
   responsibilities. It also failed to conduct the three external Impact Evaluations.




c. M&E Utilization
   The routine monitoring reports were used extensively to inform ANPROCA and the associated agencies on project implementation progress
   and agreed actions, and as a basis for decision making, for which the reports were a core instrument. They were also used in the Bank’s
   monthly meetings with project management, and in ANPROCA workshops at various levels.
   While M&E was serviceable to good in most respects, the failure to undertake the external independent monitoring studies and the Impact
   Evaluations was a critical shortfall. The overall Quality of M&E is rated Modest.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   Environmental
   PUAPA-2 was classified as an Environmental Category B project, and triggered four safeguards: Environmental (OP 4.01); Pest
   Management (OP 4.09); Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and International Waterways (OP 7.50). The International Waterways
   safeguard was granted an exception as, while the project area drained to the Niger and Senegal river-basins, project works were
   rehabilitation of small existing irrigation schemes and did not materially affect river flows. For the other three safeguards, an Environmental
   and Social Management Framework; Resettlement Policy Framework; and a Pesticide Management Plan were prepared and disclosed as
   a basis for guiding implementation. For the resettlement framework, no actual resettlement was needed. The environmental framework was
   not used until about half way through the project, due to difficulties finding a specialist to lead the program. Ultimately, the environmental
   specialist from another Bank assisted project (the Village Communities Support Program – Phase II) was used to undertake another
   environmental assessment for the current project. The assessment found that there were no significant negative environmental and social
   impacts from the initial works. Screening processes were subsequently introduced in the works program, and the Task Team advised IEG
   that no significant environmental and social problems arose during the remaining project period. Additional environmental actions
   introduced after the environmental review included revised procedures for storage of chemicals, establishing potable water points at
   ANPROCA offices, and measures for protecting workers on construction sites.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management and auditing
   PUAPA-2 complied with the Bank’s operational policies on financial management, and at the time of the ICR, all Interim Financial Reports had
   been submitted on time, and the previous year’s audit report had been received and issued with unqualified audit opinions.
   Procurement
   Procurement was very slow initially due primarily to cumbersome procedures and clearances at Government level, and to the choice of
   international competitive bidding for much of the works program. ICB proved to be unsuitable for the generally small, scattered and often
   remotely located contracts involved. The spread of Ebola infection added to the concerns and delays. As a result, bids did not attract
   international contractors. Another decision – to hire an international firm to supervise the works – also failed. In 2014, about two years after
   PUAPA-2 was approved, streamlined procurement was introduced, with all contracts under domestic bidding procedures. This enabled the
   smaller local bidders to participate. Government clearances were also expedited. These actions speeded up procurement considerably. By the
   end of the project, 98 percent of planned procurement activities had been completed and 94 percent of project funds had been disbursed.
   Community distribution of farm inputs.
   For farm inputs, a “community distribution” system was employed following piloting during PUAPA-1. Inputs were initially procured by
   ANPROCA, and then distributed to farmers through the regional and then local branches of the National Confederation of Farmer Organizations,
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



   which in turn distributed to farmers’ associations. Farmer orders and prices were transparently known, and distribution was largely effective.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                               Agricultural productivity increases
                                                                                                               (the project's objective) exceeded
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       targets and the project was
                                                                                                               economically viable, raising the
                                                                                                               efficiency rating to substantial.
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                       Substantial                        ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

PUAPA-2’s experience yields the following lessons, of which lessons 3 and 4 are adaptations from the ICR:
1. Development projects should consider longer-term perspectives and an exit or continuation strategy. This can also apply to
investment-oriented emergency response projects.
PUAPA-2 was an emergency response Grant supporting development of productivity enhancing infrastructure and agricultural services. With a 2
½ year project period, there was time during implementation to consider appropriate developments after the project. But the Appraisal and ICR
reports are limited in their discussion of post-project activities. Preparation during PUAPA-2 implementation of either a continuation/scale-up or
of an exit strategy would have likely set the project in a more strategic perspective, better able to sustain the project’s developments and to
respond to Guinea’s future agricultural development needs. (section 3 b of this ICR Review).
2. Sufficient time should be provided for implementing an investment-based Emergency Response Project.
PUAPA-2 was funded as an Emergency Response Grant under the Food Price Response Multi-Donor Trust Fund. With its investments in
irrigation, marketing infrastructure, threshing and drying facilities, consolidation of a farmer-based seed multiplication system, and improvement
of agricultural extension services, PUAPA-2 was more like a standard investment type of operation than an emergency action program, but
investments require adequate time. The project’s irrigation rehabilitation investments had significant impact on productivity, albeit with a longer
lead time than the shorter-term actions such as input distribution. Irrigation was, thus, a significant contributor to PUAPA-2’s productivity
enhancement goal. Yet an investment oriented type of operation such as PUAPA-2 would typically require more than the 2 ½ years provided for
the project, and this materialized, with a 22 percent extension of the closing date. If an emergency response project is designed as an
investment program to reduce future vulnerability (as compared with short-term actions such as food subsidies or community assistance), the
financing source should be able to provide adequate time for reasonable expectations on the project duration required. (section 3 b of this ICR
Review)
3. Capacity building may be a necessary part of successful involvement of an ancillary agency.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        GN:2nd Emerg. Agric. Prod. Support Proj. (P128309)



APROMA, which had built up capacity under PUAPA-1, successfully coordinated a complex project. The National Office for Studies and
Planning, which was entrusted with external monitoring and impact assessment, did not have the necessary experience and made no progress.
(section 10 of this ICR Review).
4. Community organizations can be effective distributors of inputs.
Inputs were procured by APROMA, and then distributed to farmers through Guinea’s network of farmer organizations. Farmer organizations
were closely aligned with communities, enabling greater responsiveness to farmers than government services. (section 11 b of this ICR Review).
5. The design of procurement processes needs to be adapted to local governance and field conditions.
Initial presumptions that international competitive bidding would apply to much of the civil works, proved impractical given the small size of
contracts, often dispersed in remote areas; and the Ebola crisis further reduced interest of international contractors. Switching to local bidding,
and resolution of cumbersome government clearance processes, substantially speeded up project implementation. (section 11 b of this ICR
Review).




14. Assessment Recommended?

Yes


Please explain


Possibly as part of a cross-country review of procurement and input distribution processes, using PUAPA-2’s community distribution system as
case study material.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is a thorough report and clearly the product of a team that has sought to be candid in its discussion of issues. The text and analysis
are structured to provide the information required for analysis of relevance, efficacy and efficiency. The data to assess the project’s physical
and productivity achievements against targets is virtually fully complete. The issues orientation of the discussion provides a good basis for
evaluating the project’s performance.
Areas which could have been further developed include: (i) more context of PUAPA-2 in Guinea’s overall agricultural development program
and post-project activities; (ii) Discussion of post-project actions, including a justified exit strategy or scale-up; and (iii) information on crop
areas and how the project’s increased production compares with national figures. Also, for possible relevance for projects elsewhere, further
detailing of the successful community input distribution system would have been of interest. Overall, however, the ICR is a strong report which
provides a thoughtful diagnostic of PUAPA-2’s experience. The Quality of the ICR is Substantial.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
