Document of            FIL           COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2961-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 18, 1981
This document haw a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 12, 1981)
US$1.00      =  Rs 8.217528
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.122
Rs 1 million - US$121,691
(Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC   -  Appraisal Committee
AD   -  Agricultural Department
CWC  -  Central Water Commission
GOI  -  Government of India
GOMP - Government of Madhya Pradesh
ID   -  Irrigation Department (GOMP)
IFAD - International Fund for Agricultural Development
MIP  -  Medium Irrigation Project
MP   -  Madhya Pradesh
O&M  -  Operation and Maintenance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President
Benefiziary:        State of Madhya Pra:desh
Amount:             SDR 112.6 million (US$140.0 million)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   As part of Central Assistance to States for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project             The purpose of the project is to develop irrigation water
Description:        supplies on the numerous small rivers located throughout
Madhya Pradesh to supplement limited and erratic rain-
fall. The project would also provide the basis for
better water management in the State. It would furth-
ermore improve the data base for planning future irri-
gation projects in Madhya Pradesh. The project would
consist of: construction, over a five-year period, of
medium irrigation projects throughout the State; flow
monitoring and evaluation studies; water management
areas; training of management staff; technical services
for the planning and design of the distribution system;
and demonstration farms for irrigated agriculture.
The project would increase agricultural production and
the standard of living of the farmers in Madhya Pra-
desh. The risks under the proposed project are those
normally associated with irrigation projects in India.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(US$ million)
Estimated Costs 1/:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
Construction of Medium Irrigation Projects          153.3    31.4       184.7
Flow Monitoring                                       0.5      0.2        0.7
Water Management                                      0.4      0.1        0.5
Demonstration Farms                                   0.1      0.1        0.2
Technical Services                                    0.6      0.4        1.0
Base Cost                                      154.9    32.2      187.1
Price Contingencies                                  37.4      7.6       45.0
Total Cost                                     192.3    39.8      232.1
(US$ million)
Financial Plan:                                           Local   Foreign  Total
IDA Credit                                           100.2    39.8    140.0
Local Financing                                       92.1      -        92.1
192.3    39.8    232.1
=c===    ====    =-====
Estimated Disbursement:                                    (US$ million)
FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87
Annual:               8    26    29    35    29    13
Cumulative:           8    34    63    98   127   140
Rate of Return: 18%
Appraisal Report: No. 3260-IN of February 18, 1981
I/ Including taxes and duties, which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE MADHYA PRADESH
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount of SDR 112.6 million (US$140 mil-
licn) on standard IDA terms to help finance a five-year time slice of
Madhya Pradesh StaEe's investmenL program for medium irrigation and asso-
ciated items. The Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of
the credit to the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) in accordance with
GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing state development pro-
jects. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN), dated May 1, 1980, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an ade-
quate livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, espe-
cially the landless or nearly landless who have unly an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost
(measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 59.6Z in 1950/51 to 40.7%
in 1978/79. The share of industry has increased over the same period from
14.5% to 22.7%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb
the growing labor force, nor to bring about the substantial economic
1/  Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts
I and II of the President's Report for the Second Madras Urban
Development Project (Report No. P-2911-IN), dated November 25, 1980.



transformation that has led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization
in some other developing countries. The urban population was 18% of the
total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate
of GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agri-
culture -- 2.5% per annum over the same period -- has constrained overall
growth, not only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also
because scarce foreign exchange has often been required to import food.
Industrial value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between
1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth has not been as high as in many other
countries, nor as high as required if the overall growth of the economy is
to be accelerated. Slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable
domestic saving and investment performance. Gross domestic saving more
than doubled from, 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in 1978/79. Similarly,
gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from 10% in 1950/51 to
just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed a large
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during
the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to
much lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage
of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen
above 3% of GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued
a strategy of import substitution. As a result, India's share of world
trade has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of
growth of imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of
exports. During the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically,
spurring a relatively rapid period of export growth through the mid-1970s.
For the five years ending in 1976/77 the volume of India's exports grew on
average over 10% per annum, demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Mid-
dle East, contributed to this process, adjustments in trade policies
designed to improve the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at fac-
tor cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged
4.7%, 2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a
marginally better growth performance than the long-term trends from
1950/51 to 1975/76. However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3%
in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural
production and input constraints in other sectors, bringing recent trends



- 3 -
back in line with the long-term picture. Industrial production stagnated
in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the production of major inputs
such as coal, steel and cement, as well as constraints in the provision of
infrastructure, notably power and transportation. As a consequence of
these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal
year 1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1979 the price index rose
sharply, so that by September it stood at 18.4% above that of the previous
September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1979 but in
most markets still prevailed close to the Government's ration prices. Low
income groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at
stable prices through the public distribution system.  The substantial
stocks of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale drought
relief employment program for low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly
evident and have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural
production, which had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to
record levels each year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production
is estimated to have declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-
120 million tons in 1979/80. Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute
drought, coming after two successive years of record output, the foodgrain
production achieved -- still the fourth highest in Indian history -- pro-
vides a measure of the contribution that expanded irrigation, extension
and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture. Furthermore, the capa-
city of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought ccinditions was
not adequately tested because of the diesel shortages which inhibited the
utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in the use of basic
inputs for agricultural production has continued. Additions to the area
under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares during the
five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional hec-
tares a year during the most recent three-year period. Fertilizer con-
sumption in 1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level almost
80% higher than in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shiLfting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of
the late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again over-
taken domestic savings, and the scope for further increases iLn the latter
appears limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30%
in the household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely
on enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending
resource scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between
1975/76 and 1978/79 India's current account deficit had remaiLned comfort-
ably small in relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid com-
mitments. This was primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements
and rapidly growing net invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends



- 4 -
in the volume of exports, which has barely grown since 1976/77. Particu-
larly serious is the evident decline in the quantum of manufactured non-
traditional exports which had contributed much to the export growth of the
first half of the decade. A combination of strong domestic and slack
international demand, exacerbated until recently by apparent lessened
interest in export promotion, have been the major causal factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and
there have been important changes in composition. As a result of the
accumulation and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports --
which had been a traditional item in the balance of payments -- have
declined to insignificant levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of
the liberalized import policy adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain
imports increased sharply, so that their level in 1978/79 was over 80%
higher than in 1975/76. In large part, the liberalization in import pol-
icy and increase in imports were limited to raw materials, basic commodi-
ties and intermediate goods; consumer goods remained banned and capital
goods imports were permitted only on a selective basis. Strong new pres-
sures on the balance of payments have developed during 1979/80. The terms
of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of unexpectedly
large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import bill to
double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill
to about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of exports now
exceed 50%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have
the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless has a highly diversified structure and is capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure
-- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope for
expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and
ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and suf-
ficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the pro-
cess of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period
1981-86 is being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83.
At this stage it is not possible to comment on the new development stra-
tegy; however, it is unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture



and power will be lessened. Furthermore, developments in Inclia as well as
in the world economy during 1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent
issues which will need the attention of policy-makers, irrespective of the
broader context of development strategy that the new Government may adopt.
Among these issues are the following: (a) the bottlenecks iin infrastruc-
ture and related constraints in production of several basic industrial
inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in agriculture; (c) the need
to substitute less costly energy sources for imported petroleum; and, (d)
the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in the near
future.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur
well for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to
existing demands, the pas_' investment program has led to disproportionally
low growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport ser-
vices, steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have
benefitted from large investments in the recent past may not materialize
unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel
and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds
of comparative advantage, and the aim of policy is self-sufficiency. All
these are tradeable commodities. Although in 1979/80 they were not
imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, inacreased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
no option to import the final product --power and transportation-- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there
is scope for improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors,
major investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as new
capacity are needed in order to provide adequate and stable growth in the
medium term. The presence of infrastructural constraints and shortages of
basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the expansion of industrial out-
put leads to competing claims on scarce resources which must be effi-
ciently allocated among different industries.
13.     The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in
the near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for
India. India imports the equivalent of about 50% of its petroleum con-
sumption. In order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on
foreign oil, the Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration
program, to increase the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to
increase the development of India's considerable hydroelectric potential.
However, recent shortages of coal and power are symptomatic of operational
problems reflecting, in part, past planning and investment decisions which
are inhibiting the timely implementation of India's long-term conversion
program. The interdependencies in the economy currently make petroleum
demand a residual which is contingent on the operation of many other sec-
tors and which has significant implications for the balance of payments.



- 6 -
14.     In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies,
development programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining
a period of high growth during the 1980s. India should end the 1979/80
rabi season with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This is partly due to the bumper
crop of 1978/79, but also reflects the trends of the last decade which
point to a consistent improvement in foodgrain availability in the econ-
omy. In view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural inputs and
the projected fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects
for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable. Persistent shor-
tage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of policy
options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly fal-
ling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains
to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and
prices, and diversification to the production of other higher value crops.
This prospect will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a
dramatic break with past policies.
15.     Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situa-
tion is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties
in the prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious
and rapid deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.
Reserves were only marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a
year earlier and, in terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month
level for the first time since 1977. A sharp decline in the reserve level
is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's reserves may provide a cushion
for two more years, and even that is conditional on the maintenance of aid
flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years.
Investments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete
with longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's con-
siderable physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives
will place a difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year
Plan. The primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate
domestic adjustment policies, although the aid community can and should
play an important role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to
inadequate foreign resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the
rate of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement
level) will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the



population of India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase
of about 81% over the mid-1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has
played an important role in achieving the fertility decline in the past
decade, and the extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by
the continuation of a successful official family planning program. The
family planning performance data for 1978/79 and the first ten months of
1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp decline observed in
virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78. Except for male
sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive methods sur-
passed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the total
acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Data
for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward trend in
overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major attempts
to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have opted
for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained
population growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special
attention to ways of raising the income and productivity of 'Low-income
groups. More than one-third of the world's poor live in Ind-La, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless
laborers and small farmers. In addition to marginal holdings of physical
assets, the poor are ill-endowed with human resources, being dispropor-
tionately represented among the illiterate, the malnourished and those
having otherwise poor health status. Improvements in the living standards
of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the
economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture and non-farm
rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment opportunities in
urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from market
forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate govern-
ment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the
scope for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farmers and rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of
those services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve
living standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs
Program which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past
decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary
education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision of
secure village water supplies. Recent innovations, including the commun-
ity health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign, are
encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can
lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 131 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,512 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,133 million had
been repaid, and US$4,072 million was still undisbursed as of January 31,
1981. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year
through January 31, 1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a
summary statement of disbursements as of January 31, 1981, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling
US$110.6 million, of whicii US$19.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 mil-
lion sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$55.7 mil-
lion, US$47.2 million represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A sum-
mary statement of IFC operations as of October 31, 1980, is also included
in Annex II (page 5).
21.     In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation.
Marketing, seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansior. of output in the fertil-
izer sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance
institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and
small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw
materials and components for selected priority sectors has been instrumen-
tal in facilitating better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank
Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure development for
power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning, water supply
development, and urban investments have also received Bank Group support
in recent years,
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The
emphasis of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other
infrastructure sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to
foster agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs,
particularly water and credit for on-farm investments, will continue to
receive emphasis.   Improved water management and intensification and
streamlining of extension systems form an important institution-building
aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several years. Special
emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers. The Bank
Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector also assists India in the
more efficient provision of another key input in the agricultural growth



process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban develop-
ment also form an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India
for the next several years. Lending in support of infrastructure and
industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have recently
emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power and
transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consor-
tium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s.
However, the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in
the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should include, as
appropriate, the financing of local expenditures. India impDrts rela-
tively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of
the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange
component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the
case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water
supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has
been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount
of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in
relation to India's needs for external support, and India should be
regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of
India's debt service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is
projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of January 31, 1981,
outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$1,766 million, of
which US$561 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount out-
standing of US$1,206 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disburse-
ments, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 64%, 60%
and over 100%, respectively, in 1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's out-
standing and disbursed external public debt was US$15.6 billion, of which
the Bank Group's share was US$5.2 billion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and
IBRD's US$0.7 billion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predom-
inantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will
rise slowly. In 1979/80, about 18% of India's total debt service payments
were to the Bank Group.



- 10 -
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
IN MADHYA PRADESH
26.     Madhya Pradesh (MP) is India's largest state.  It covers an area
of 442,800 km  and has a population of about 5? million.  Although MP is
rich in natural resources -- minerals, fuel, timber, iron ore, etc. --
they are as yet relatively unexploited. The State's economy depends
largely on a low-productivity agricultural sector, which contributes about
55% of the State Domestic Product. The encouragement of agricultural
growth, particularly through the expansion of irrigation and improved
water management, is thus a precondition for economic progress. By most
indicators, MP is one of the poorest states of India.
27.     The per capita income of MP was Rs 896 in 1977/78, compared to Rs.
1,163 for the country as a whole. Between 1970/71 and 1977/78, the
State's income grew at an annual rate of 1.8%. Because of the population
increase, the per capita income actually declined in the same period by
0.9% per annum. The zero growth rate of primary net domestic product is
mainly due to the stagnation of foodgrain production, which increased at
only 0.2% per annum over the period; this contrasts with the 3.4% p.a.
growth rate of the primary sector in the Indian economy. Production in
the industrial sector, which started at a low base, grew rapidly, at 6.2%
per annum (11% per annum nationwide), but contributed only about 20% of
the State Domestic Product. MP is estimated to possess 44% of the
country's bauxite reserves, 50% of its manganese, 30% of its high grade
iron ore, 25% of its coal, and 27% of India's total forest resources.
Recently, rich deposits of copper have been discovered. The State is
estimated to be endowed with 11% of the country's total hydro-electric
power potential, second only to Assam. However, the per capita industrial
power consumption in MP is only 80% of the Indian consumption.
28.     MP's estimated population of 52 million (1980) is growing at about
2.6% per annum, which is one of the highest growth rates among Indian
states.  The population density of 94 persons per km2 is low, compared
with the national average of 167. The population is predominantly (84%)
rural, and is scattered in small villages with an average population of
430 persons per village. Just over 20% of the population is tribal. One
third of the State's inhabitants belong to the so-called backward classes,
which include scheduled castes and tribes. About 37% of the total popula-
tion constitute the State's labor force; about 80% of the labor force is
employed in the agricultural sector. Cultivators and agricultural labor-
ers account for 53% and 27% of the labor force, respectively. The average
farm size in MP has decreased from 4.0 ha in 1970/71 to 3.6 ha in 1976/77,
with wide variations among districts. About two-thirds of all holdings
are owner-operated. In a normal year, about two-thirds of the population
has incomes below the poverty line (estimated at US$80 for 1979/80). How-
ever, there are large regional variations in the incidence of poverty. In
the eastern and southern parts of the State, about 90% of the population



- 11 -
live below the poverty line, while the proportion in the western part of
the State is about one half.
29.     Wide differences in climate, soil and topography create varying
conditions for agriculture in different parts of the State. Seven major
agro-ecological zones are distinguished on the basis of climate, topogra-
phy and prevailing soil type. Rainfall varies from less than 800 mm in
the West and Northwest to over 1,600 mm in the Northeast and Southeast.
Winter temperatures also vary throughout the State according to latitude
and altitude. The different zones can be classified as having warm, mild
or cool winters. Frosts are recorded in some northern areas. The agro-
climatic conditions in the various zones determine predominant crops
(rice, wheat, jowar, cotton and bajra, or a combination of those).
30.     Because of the limited rainfall throughout the State, which comes
almost entirely from the Southwest monsoon, irrigation development is a
prerequisite for a significant increase in agricultural production. In
some parts of Madhya Pradesh the time interval between sowing rains and
the next realization of a significant rain is as long as 32 - 34 days, on
average, and it is always erratic. With irrigation, the planting can be
done on schedule, without guess work, and in amounts sufficient to estab-
lish a good seed bed and to ensure good seed germination and initial
growth. The short duration of the monsoon season or an earlier than nor-
mal receding of the monsoon rains further aggravates the problems of
equating moisture with plant needs.
31.     A major part of MP's irrigation potential is yet to be exploited.
Despite the fact that within MP are the catchments of all eleven of the
major rivers of Central India, only 11% of the net cropped area (about
2.2 million ha) in the State is irrigated, compared to the national aver-
age of about 26%. At present, only about 15% of the groundwater and sur-
face water potential is utilized. Of the 2.2 million ha net irrigated
area, about half is served from canals and half from (largely privately
owned) wells. About one-third of the canal-irrigated area is under major
schemes (defined as over 10,000 ha), about one-third under medium schemes
(2,000 - 10,000 ha), and about one-third under minor schemes (below 2,000
ha). Irrigation is almost exclusively limited to one season; less than 5%
of the irrigated area receives irrigation in both seasons. The potential
for groundwater development is fairly limited. The unexploited groundwa-
ter potential has been estimated at 1.7 million ha, compared with a sur-
face water potential of 9.0 million ha. Thus, most of the increase in
irrigation in MP will have to come from surface water resources.
32.     Madhya Pradesh accords a high priority to irrigation and has been
allocating a large share of Plan budgets to this sector, currently about
30%. Given the priority in Plan allocations and the apparent rate of
utilization, the growth in the benefits from irrigation in My' has been
somewhat disappointing. The two principal constraints to the development



- 12 -
of irrigation have been long construction periods for major and medium
projects, and the slow and uneven uptake of irrigation once the facilities
have been created. In many cases, dams have been built and water stored,
but distribution systems not completed, with outlet command areas ranging
from 40 ha to over 100 ha. Because of this lag in the construction of the
distribution systems, the water has been preempted at the head of the sys-
tem. This fact combined with the ability of influential groups to mono-
polize water, has resulted in large areas, especially at the tail end of
the commands, being left unirrigated. Other factors in the slow and
uneven uptake of irrigation have been the low level of technology adopted
in irrigation planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance,
and over-optimistic design assumptions about crop water requirements and
irrigation losses in the system.
33.     The Bank Group has contributed directly to the development of MP's
agricultural sector through previous IDA credits, but its involvement in
irrigation has been small compared with the Bank Group's contribution to
irrigation in some other states of India. The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural
Credit Project (US$33 million credit of June 8, 1973; Cr. 391-IN) provided
long and medium term agricultural credit to farmers through credit insti-
tutions for such on-farm investments as tractors, minor irrigation and
land shaping. The credit was fully disbursed by 1977. The MP Dairy Pro-
ject (US$16.4 million credit of December 18, 1974; Cr. 522-IN) is support-
ing dairy development organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in neighboring Gujarat. Farmer response has been
excellent and the Government is under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of dairy cooperatives throughout the State.
The Chambal (MP) Command Area Development Project (US$24 million credit of
June 20, 1975; Cr. 562-IN) is designed to improve the efficiency of water
utilisation in the command area of the Chambal River in MP and bring addi-
tional areas under irrigation. This project started slowly, but is now
about to be completed. The major constraint was the slow acceptance by
the farmers of on-farm development, which was meant to be carried out, and
paid for, by the farmers themselves with agricultural credit available to
them from the proceeds of the credit. (The reduction of the outlet com-
mand size from some 40 ha to about 8 ha in MP as elsewhere in India, as a
matter of policy, has meanwhile virtually eliminated this problem.) The
MP Forestry Technical Assistance Project (US$4 million credit of February
26, 1976; Cr. 609-IN) provided the funds for a feasibility study, com-
pleted in November 1979, for the establishment of a saw-mill and a pulp
factory based on the forest resources of southeastern MP. The MP Agricul-
tural Extension and Research Project (US$10 million credit of June 1,
1977; Cr. 712-IN) is designed to strengthen agricultural supporting ser-
vices, particularly extension and research in MP. Staff shortages, espe-
cially in supervisory and managerial posts, have delayed implementation of
the extension component, but results in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attest to the effectiveness of the extension system
introduced under the project.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Oblectives and Formulation
34.     The objectives of the project are to improve the performance of
investments in MIPs in the State, through the introduction of new plan-
ning, design, construction and operational criteria. These criteria are
aimed at increasing the reliability and timeliness of water deliveries to
the farm-gate, a prerequisite for successful irrigated agricu:Lture.
Experience in MP and other states has shown that without the confidence
that they will receive irrigation ia accordance with plant requirements,
farmers are unlikely to make the necessary complementary investments in
on-farm development, improved inputs, and better management to justify the
planned investments in irrigation infrastructure. The proposed project
would represent a large part of HP's medium irrigation prograim for the
five-year period April 1981 to March 1986. Almost the entire medium irri-
gation sub-sector will therefore benefit from the improvements in plan-
ning, design, construction and operation introduced under the IDA project.
As some MIPs will be only partially financed under the project, and will
be completed after the five-year period, the impact of these improvements
will extend well beyond the project period.
35.     The project was prepared by GOMP with assistance from GOl's Cen-
tral Water Commission (CWC) and from Bank Staff. It would closely follow
the pattern introduced by the Orissa Irrigation Project (US$58 million
credit of October 11, 1977; Cr. 740-IN) and the (First) Gujarat Irrigation
Project (US$85 million credit of July 17, 1978; Cr. 808-IN). The project
was appraised in September 1980. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III. A report enLitled "INDIA - Staff Appraisal Report
- Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project", Report No. 3260-IN, dated
February 18, 1981, is being circulated separately to the Executive Direc-
tors. Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1981. The Bor-
rower and GOMP were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S. C.
Jain, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Proiect
36.     In support of GOMP's medium irrigation program (paragraph 34
above), the proposed project would comprise construction, over the next
five years, of medium irrigation projects covering a combined service area
of about 107,000 ha throughout MP. Eligibility of MIPs for inclusion in
the project would be determined through special procedures (paragraph 40
below) and on the basis of criteria (paragraph 37 below) agreed upon among
the Association, GOI, and GOMP. On-going MIPs, if eligible, and MIPs
started in 1981/82 would be completed under the project, while MIPs
started in 1982/83 or later would be financed only up to March 1986.
About 25 to 30 MIPs (including some MIPs under construction which can be



- 14 -
modified to meet the criteria) are likely to be included in the project.
37.     Specific criteria for planning, design and construction, and stan-
dards of economic viability have been established for MIPs to be included
in the project. They incorporate a broad range of requirements primarily
directed at improving the efficiency of irrigation investments in the
State. The planning criteria include the preparation, for each MIP, of a
soil survey and land irrigability classification, of a comprehensive
socio-economic survey, and of an agricultural development plan. They also
specify in detail the methods for obtaining the required hydrological data
and for determining crop water requirements and drainage needs. The
design criteria incorporate the minimum requirements for the physical
lay-out of MIPs. They include specifications of materials and shape for
the dam including the spillway, the entire distribution system, drainage,
and supplementary devices such as a telephone and radio communication sys-
tem for system operation. An important design criterion is that the
entire system from the dam to the 5-8 ha blocks will be lined unless it
can be demonstrated that such lining is not economically justified. The
implementation and operational criteria specify construction practices and
scheduling and set standards for management, operation, and maintenance of
completed MIPs. The economic criteria would ensure that individual MIPs
would yield an economic return of at least 12%. Only projects that meet
the established criteria would be eligible for financing from the proposed
credit. MIPs that cannot be completed by 1985/86 would still be con-
structed to their completion, and operated, according to the agreed cri-
teria (Section 2.02 (a) (ii) of the Project Agreement).
38.     MIPs, for the purposes of the proposed project, would be irriga-
tion systems encompassing cultivable command areas between 2,000 ha and
15,000 ha. Each MIP would consist of a storage dam with spillway, a fully
lined canal network delivering water through outlets serving 5-8 ha
blocks, unlined field channels to the 2 ha operating unit, and a drainage
network connected to natural drains. The average cost would be about Rs
14,000 (US$1,670) per ha of net cultivable command area. Typically, the
dam accounts for about 60% of the cost of an MIP, and the conveyance and
drainage networks together for about 40%. To ensure the safety of the
dams of MIPs, GOMP would constitute a panel of exports, with acceptable
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference, which would review the
plans and designs of the dams and their associated structures, and would
conduct periodic reviews, during design and construction, to examine
whether any new grounds for making changes in the design of the dam have
become apparent (Section 3.02(a) of the Project Agreement). After con-
struction, GOMP would have the dams and related structures of MIPs period-
ically inspected to determine any deficiencies that might endanger their
safety. GOMP would propose appropriate inspection arrangements for the
Association's review not less than one year before the expected completion
of each dam (Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement). For each MIP,
prior to its appraisal and approval, a comprehensive resettlement plan



- 15 -
(including an implementation schedule) would be developed for the reloca-
tion of residents in the reservoir areas. People ousted from the submer-
gence area would be offered compensation in the form of cultivable land
(Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement); as far as possible, irrigated
land would be used for this purpose.
39.     In order to improve the hydrological data base for the planning of
medium irrigation projects dispersed throughout the agro-climatic areas of
the State, stream flow gauging stations will be established for new and
on-going MIPs. In four MIPs representing different agro-climatic zones,
two "water management areas" of about 200 ha each would be set up to allow
experimentation with rotational water supply and other water allocation
procedures. Four demonstration farms of about 10 ha each, one in each
major river basin, would be established; their main objective would be to
test improved agricultural practices under irrigated conditions. A first
stage of training of staff for the management and operation of irrigation
projects in MP, which might form the basis for the establishment of a
larger-scale training institute at a later date, would be provided under
the project. Classroom courses and field visits to operating irrigation
projects, both in India and abroad, workshops and seminars, and
audiovisual instruction equipment would be provided for training. The
project also includes technical services by consultants with qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
(Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement); they would assist GCIMP primarily
in planning and designing the MIP distribution systems.
Project Implementation
40.     Appraisal and progress review by IDA of individual MI:Ps would not
be practical. Instead, these would be carried out by the Appraisal Com-
mittee (AC) of GOI's Central Water Commission (CWC), which was established
for this purpose in the framework of the Orissa and Gujarat Medium Irriga-
tion Projects (paragraph 35 above). The procedures for MIP preparation,
appraisal and progress review would conform to those established for the
Orissa and Gujarat projects. The AC is headed by the Member, Planning and
Progress, of CWC. Its staff at present consists of a Director, six
engineers, two agriculturalists, and one economist. The AC's appraisal
and review work under the Orissa and Gujarat projects has been satisfac-
tory. During the implementation of the proposed project, CWC would gradu-
ally increase the AC's staff in accordance with specified manpower coeffi-
cients, which would be adjusted in the light of experience gained during
project implementation. The AC would also supervise, and monitor the pro-
gress of, individual MIPs in accordance with the technical and economic
criteria and procedures agreed with IDA.
41.     The overall strategy for irrigation development in NP is based on
a master plan already framed for the Godavari and Narmada river basins and
under various stages of formulation in respect of other water-sheds.



- 16 -
Within this strategy, the investigation and preparation priorities of MIPs
are established by the Chief Engineer for the respective basins. The ini-
tial investigations for each MIP are carried out by an Executive Engineer
stationed near the proposed MIP. Detailed project preparation for MIPs
would be the responsibility of GOMP's Irrigation Department (ID), coordi-
nated by its Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell. The progress of MIP
preparation would be reviewed periodically by the AC to ensure the adher-
ence to the established criteria for planning and preparation. Subsequent
to the approval by GOMP technical and administrative departments as
required, and after inclusion of approved MIP proposals in GOMP's annual
development plan, which would in turn require the approval by GOI's Plan-
ning Commission, the selected MIPs would be submitted to the AC for
appraisal. The AC would visit the project area and for each MIP prepare a
project summary to be submitted to the Association. If the MIP meets all
established criteria, costs less than Rs 100 million (US$11.9 million)
excluding price contingencies, and has a benefit/cost ratio of not less
than 1.0, the CWC/AC would be authorized to approve the project. In all
other cases, the sub-project would be reviewed in detail by IDA which
would base its decision on an analysis of Project Reports and Summaries
supplemented by field visits, if necessary. It is expected that about 40%
of the eligible MIPs, representing about 60% of the IDA-financed invest-
ment program, would be subject to prior IDA review and approval. The main
activities of IDA (apart from sub-project review in cases where the AC is
not authorized to approve) would concentrate on assessing the continued
quality of AC appraisal and review work, spot checking whether the agreed
criteria have been followed, reviewing procurement procedures, checking
the financial records kept by GOMP, assessing the continuing appropriate-
ness of the established criteria, and examining content, timing and ade-
quacy of the reports submitted by the AC to the Association.
42.     The ID would be responsible for the implementation of all irriga-
tion works. Each MIP would be implemented by four or five sub-divisions.
GOMP's Agriculture Department (AD) would establish irrigation demonstra-
tion plots in each MIP area, and, through its extension staff, provide the
necessary guidance to the farmers on the lay-out of farm channels and
related on-farm works (Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement). Staff-
ing of the agricultural extension services in each MIP area would conform
with State-wide standards which have been agreed between IDA and GOMP
under the MP Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN,
paragraph 33 above); in order to meet the needs of irrigated agriculture,
GOMP would also, as necessary, strengthen the input supply, credit,
storage and marketing facilities available to farmers in MIP areas (Sec-
tion 3.03 of the Project Agreement).



- 17 -
43.     The ID would retain responsibility for the physical maintenance of
the irrigation system from the dam down to the outlets, which would each
serve a command area of about 5-8 ha. Each MIP would be managed by a
full-time project manager with at least three months of special training
in water management.
Project Cost and Financing
44.     The estimated total cost of the project is US$232.1 million
equivalent (including taxes and duties, which are negligible), including
US$39.8 million (17%) in foreign exchange. The principal cost components,
including physical contingencies, are: construction of MIPs (US$184.7
million) and technical services (US$1.0 million). The balance is made up
by flow monitoring (US$0.7 million), water management areas (US$0.5 mil-
lion), demonstration farms (US$0.2 million), and price contingencies
(US$45.0 million).
45.     The proposed credit of US$140 million would cover 60% of project
cost, including all foreign exchange cost and US$100.2 million of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified in India for projects such as
this for the reasons discussed in paragraph 23 above. GOMP would finance
the remaining 40% of project cost. GOI would channel the proceeds of the
credit to GOMP on the standard terms and arrangements on which development
funds are being provided to state governments by the Center. GOI and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) are at present con-
sidering the possibility of channeling an as yet unspecified amount (pos-
sibly some US$25 million) of IFAD funds to GOMP in support of GOMP's
development plan for MIPs in addition to the proposed IDA credit. If this
proposal should materialize, IFAD would finance a portion of GOMP's 40%
contribution to the project cost.
46.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:
civil works (SDR 100.97 million, or US$125.6 million), equipment and vehi-
cles (SDR 5.81 million or US$7.2 million), and technical assistance (SDR
0.98 million, or US$1.2 million). The remaining SDR 4.84 million (US$6.0
million) would be left unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.     The proposed project includes about US$128 million worth of civil
works (net of contingencies and engineering and administration). These
works would be labor intensive, relatively small, and scattered over the
State in 25 to 30 schemes. In these circumstances, it would not be feasi-
ble or economic to combine them into contracts large enough to attract
international contractors. It is therefore proposed that thLey be carried
out by Indian contractors. The dams and main canals would be packaged
into contract parcels so as to attract competition from the larger domes-
tic contractors, but at the same time small contractors would be allowed



- 18 -
to bid for individual contracts. Tendering and bid evaluation would be
based on standardized competitive bidding procedures and guidelines
recently developed by CWC and approved by the Association. Smaller works,
such as minor irrigation and drainage networks, buildings, and road
improvements, representing less than 40% of the civil works of the pro-
ject, would be executed under small unit price or percentage rate con-
tracts. Departmental works would be used only when required for safety or
quality considerations or where the use of department-owned equipment is
required, and would be limited to 10% of all works. About US$3 million
worth of remaining work on contracts let after September 1980, when the
project was appraised, and conforming to the Bank Group's procurement
guidelines, would be eligible for financing under the proposed project.
48.     The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment to be procured under
the project is approximately US$8.6 million (net of price contingencies).
All equipment and vehicles would be procured on the basis of local com-
petitive bidding from indigenous sources in order to benefit from existing
servicing and spare part supply facilities. The equipment and vehicles
will be grouped to promote efficiency and attract competition; however,
bids will also be accepted on individual schedules to attract small
manufacturers.
49.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the ex-
factory price of equipment and vehicles. Where the ex-factory price is
not readily available, 70% of expenditures would be reimbursed. Disburse-
ments for civil works would be 70%. For technical services, all expendi-
tures would be reimbursed. Full documentation would be required for all
disbursements, except for payments of up to Rs 300,000 for civil works and
Rs 150,000 for equipment and vehicles, and for departmental work, for
which disbursements would be made against certificates of expenditure.
The supporting documents for these payments would not be submitted to IDA
but would be retained by GOMP for inspection by IDA review missions. It
is expected that disbursements would be completed by March 31, 1987.
Benefits and Economic Justification
50.     The proposed project would assist in expanding the area under
irrigation in MP by about 107,000 ha. At full development, the project
would increase foodgrain production by an estimated 238,800 tons each
year. Cash crop production would increase in value by about Rs 120 mil-
lion each year. The project would generate about 22,800 and 8,900 addi-
tional full-time jobs in the farm and non-farm sectors, respectively. The
value added to the local economy would be about Rs 290 million.
51.     Net farm incomes would rise substantially under the project.  For
the average 3.6 ha farm, they are expected to increase to Rs 11,550, or
420% of what they would be without the project (Rs 2,750).



- 19 -
52.     The average economic rate of return on three sample MIPs, which
have already been prepared, is 18%. Since these have been selected as
typical of the three major agro-climatic divisions of the State, it is
likely that the average economic rate of return for the whole project will
also be 18%. According to the economic criteria for the selection of
MIPs, CWC/AC would be authorized to approve any project with an economic
rate of return of at least 12%. But projects that "only just clear" this
minimum rate of return would be rare, as economic inefficiency in project
design is constrained by the agreed criteria not only for the 'benefits but
also for project efficiency and water requirements, for irrigation inten-
sity, and for the indicative zonal cropping patterns.
Cost Recovery
53.     The "project rent" (net incremental income less the necessary
rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation
risk) is estimated to average about Rs 910/ha at full development. The
annual financial requirement to recover total capital cost of the project,
including on-farm development, at 10% interest over 50 years for infras-
tructure and over 10 years for other investments, and O&M expenditures
would be Rs 1,575/ha, or Rs 1,510/ha for infrastructure without on-farm
development. At current rates, direct and indirect revenue from irrigated
lands would total Rs 166/ha, equivalent to a total cost recovery index of
11% and a project rent recovery index of 18%. GOMP has a policy of
reviewing and revising the water charge every two or three years. The
rates have been reviewed recently, and an increase of about 250% (on aver-
age for the proposed cropping patterns) has been recommended to the leg-
islature. If the proposed revised rates become effective, the cost
recovery index would increase from 11% to 18%, and the rent recovery
index from 18% to 30%. As the average farm income would more than quadru-
ple under the project (paragraph 51 above), there appears to be scope for
a further significant increase in the water charges.
54.     The current low level of water charges reflects the unsatisfactory
level of water supply in the mostly unlined distribution systems existing
at present which do not permit a reliable irrigation water supply to farm-
ers especially those whose fields are located at tail ends. T'he technical
standards introduced under the credit are specifically designed to ensure
that each farmer in the command area receives a reliable water supply, so
that the benefits to the individual farmers, including those at the tail
end, would be higher and more secure. There is therefore likely to be a
justification for collecting higher charges from the farmers benefitting
from the construction of MIPs. GOMP would monitor the success of MIPs in
providing timely and reliable supplies of water to all farmers in the com-
mand and their reactions to the new standards. On the basis of these stu-
dies, GOMP would, by December 31, 1983, review the water and water-related
charges in the State and would, as soon thereafter as possible and after
paying due regard to IDA's comments, implement a system of charges that



- 20 -
would ensure recovery of annual O&M costs and, to the extent possible,
cost of infrastructure investments (Section 3.05 of the Project Agree-
ment). In establishing the level of charges, due consideration would be
given to the incentives to, and payment capacity of, the farmers.
Project Risk
55.     The risks associated with the project are those that are normally
inherent in irrigation projects in India. These include the possibility
that the costs of each MIP would be underestimated and the project bene-
fits would be overestimated. There is specifically the danger that
unrealistic cropping patterns would be projected in order to spread water
to the maximum number of farmers. Furthermore, the use of zonal cropping
patterns in calculating the value of water may result in overestimates of
project benefits (if the actual cropping pattern differs significantly
from the projected zonal average). However, the following factors and
procedures incorporated in the project would reduce these risks. Firstly,
IDA will monitor differences between actual costs and appraisal estimates
for each MIP and intervene in the appraisal of further MIPs if the diver-
gence is too high. A mechanism for appropriate corrections has been
incorporated in the criteria. Secondly, benefits have been estimated on
the basis of conservative assumptions. These assumptions will be moni-
tored and further adjusted downward for subsequent MIP appraisals, if
required. Thirdly, differences between zonal and project-specific crop-
ping patterns will be closely monitored and would be rectified for future
MIPs by appropriate changes in the assumptions on projected cropping pat-
terns. Lastly, differences between project- specific and zonal values of
water can be expected to average out over the State. Thus, the risks
associated with the project are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State
of Madhya Pradesh, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
57.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 18, 1981






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV A0ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Ki.)                                                          HOST RECENT ESTIMATEM    _
TOTAL            3287.6
A(GRICULTURAL    1824.0                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE tb  ASIA 6 PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA 1US$)                    60.0         90.0      180.0              197.9                   894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIlOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       108.0/c      141.0/c   176.O0c            166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPlLATTON, MOID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9         547.6     643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           19.7      21.7               20.8                     39.1
POPILATION PROJECTIONS
POPLLATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        974. 1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2150
POPLILATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        132.0       167.0      196.0              193.2                   376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         308.0      353.0              409.6                  2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.0        42.5       41.4               42.0                    40.4
15-r4 YRS.                          56.5         54.6       55.6               55.0                    56.2
h5 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.5         2.9        3.0                3.0                     3.4
PnOlLATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                                1.9          2.5       2.0                2.2                      2.4
ITRBAN                               2.5/d        3.3       3.3                3..9                     4.1
CRIDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0         40.0      35.0                37.4                    28.7
(RUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       21.0         17.0      14.0               14.6                      7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          2.9       2.4                2.6                      1.9
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       64.0      3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           12.0      16.9               15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-714100)            98.0       102.0      103.0              101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     93.0        92.0       91.0               92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            52.0        51.0       50.0               49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0       13.0               12.0                    18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.0         22.0      18.0               17.9                      5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0          48.0       51.0               50.8                    63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        134.0        ..                 ..                     52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      33.0               30.2                    42.4
URBAN                                 ..        60.0       83.0               66.0                    62.1
RURAL                                 ..         6.0       20.0               20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PO PULAT ION)
TOTAI.                                ..         18.0      20.0               17.7                    52.8
URBAN                                 ..        85.0       87.0               71.3                    71.1
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       2.0                 ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5800.0/e    4890.0    3617.0              6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9630.0/e    5220.0    5675.0              9459.0                  2213.6
POPLLATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAI.                            2149.0/f    1629.0    1289.0              1758.4                   819.4
URSAt                                 ..          ..         ..              502.9
RIIRAL                                ..          ..         ..            10524.1
ADmIssinNs PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                 ..                     28.8
HOGSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2          ..        5.2
URBAN                                5.2          ..        4.8
RURAL                                5.2          ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
ITTAI.                               2.6          2.8
IIRBAN                                ..          ..
RURAI                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICTTY (PERCENT
PF DWELLINGS)
TOTAl                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           .
RIRAI.                                ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AtES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         72.0       80.0               80.9                   98.6
MALE                  80.0        87.0       95.0               94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                40.0        55.0       64.0               66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         29.0      28.0               26.6                    55.5
MALE                  30.0        39.0       38.0               34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                10.0        17.0       18.0               18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   8.0           6.0/        ..                9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0         40.0       42.0              41.1                    34.6
SECONDARY                          16.0         17.0         ..              20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.0       36.0              40.9                    85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7          1.0        1.3                1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         21.0      24.0                25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.1        0.5                2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        16.0       16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           6.3        3.8                ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   31.3         32.6      32.0                29.4                   36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0       74.0               70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0       11.0              11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0         40.2       39.2               37.9                   39.1
HALE                                  57.1        52.3       51.3               51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                               27.9         27.1       26.2               23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.1                1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.77        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC'OME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       88.0             107.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       76.0               86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.7               46.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      47.9                51.7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends oa availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /& 1967;  /h 1964-65.
April, 1980



ANlNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                            Page    3   of   5
Notma:  Although the data are drau  from acu-e   generally judged the mast auCt-ietalv  and enlieble, in shald also be eased that ibay may not be loos-
natio..allytoepa-ale because of the lath ofAta_da-di-d deftition  end connetr  used by different ..oustelem in -olieting the data.  The data are, mor-
nhelee.n, . caful to deerribs oders  fmantd.dicdtcac  trosda. and tharatteriem  catels major differse..  be . res    -tunie..
The referen-  groops ur  (1) tha sa-  country group of the tub)-teo .. c try and (2) a  -nutry grop with sas-hbt higher a-erge itetm  tha, the coentey grop
of tbh  ma_er  country (-acet foe "Capital S-rplum  Oil Oop-teee' geop abat  "Middle InoefoN-h Africa and Middle tEat' is choose b-tas  Of stronger
not.oc..t.  a   ftit"i'is.  In rho refl eraa  ru  data the a....... are pepuie,tien  sigbted arithmetic men  foe each tedicar and shoe only abet at
lean  ha'lf of thefcountries toagopbndata -  that indiato.t                   Stnos the V n -srge of co..ntins among the iditstors depends an the a-ilbility tof
deta and ha eo-uifem, caution   ustbI....cind it relating  a--rag     of one indis-tr to another   Tb..tee seer ages are amI,' oe1 te tspa-img thI value
of one tdicator at a timesme  ibm coun_try and oaf-seanc  stoops.
LAND AJOEA (thou....d alke.)                                                                  ?opujatto- oar thy-uise   rapotai-n tivind by eune  o  pat-tcctn   phy-
Total - Total  -uf-c  area coprising ladtraed-ld    waessiodn... q-If-rd  r-na mdical school at   _ureIty Ie-el.
E.iutnl-tlmi   fanclualae   sdtnaelyo   emnnl                                      Posalatuon  Ne  oeintd Person -P Ppulation fic.ided by.numberi of pentiltieg
fee oropa, pastuosm   maket aod tkitohen gardens or to lie faIo; 197) 'denyt,                ae  n  fml  gradt eaemrns..ota   uso.adeesnt   ua
GSP Pit CAPT    I      S   e   ataeumtaa   ere aket pte.c-                                      urban  aedrurl) dioidad by their -epectic  number of hos:pital beds.
culted by suer . corice mthod atWold San  Atla  (7-78 basis)  1980.                           avial   npbli  sod ptiVst  general ad seoained hospitaladr-
19)1, od 1978 data.                                                                           hebilitatien  tetes'Opitals are estebliebhents p-nmasntly staffed
byan least oat phYsinia..,EstbIiehb..ats peoiding principally.. tostdiel
ENiRlY CONSUMPITION Fit CAPITA - An-ol  coupinof c-I-oia1 e-eogY (nal                           care era ear inoedsd.  hRal haspinals, h-.,.n., i-tlde health and medical
and ligni-o, petrolon,  natural ,gee toddthydra-, nuolet  end goothera  es-                   ceter  son pe.     ae.l  sinE_. tadby a phys  ician(bt by a meical.. asiatast.
triclty) it kiI _rs  o   ol eqacaIn  Par cacita; 1960. 1970. tad 1970                         nramidwife, ann.) whic   ffe  in-pan  eneto                eta   and proide
data                                                                                          limited reaga of medi.loe   aiiis           o   tnsi    peep .... .ob- hoapi-
tals tnolude littnP pnintpal genera  an.d specielise~,d h,slas  an  ros
POPULATION ADIl VITAL STATISTICSI.                                                                          I.   rr             p        d d    1        ~      i-       ..
Tottl Popalatic..  Olid-Your (millions    A.i of July 1; 1960, 1970,..ad 1978               Adssosar terna  Bed -Totalumbr-o  adniesie- to or disothogee
data,                                                                                       from  hospitalsdividet    b henmrofbade.
lrbao Poplto.      rec       ftoa)-Atic of urban to tonl  oultin
dIffeec dIIite   fua   ra   a   ffeo  tamPe ability of dart                             HOOLINiG
amoguo..t tee;,1~990, 1970, and 1978 date.                                                ic-r... Si.. of Hnesaheid   has.a..e hoshold) - total, urba.  end rued-
Pocalueion Projections           ,:t                              .   ..   .  18             A h..temhold nsiss-  e of ,abgr-p of iadividaals -h. share living quaters
Peclaio  inyer  111-  oroe  poultin oolctan  to  bss  OnISO          ndtheir mi   el.    A  order or ldger may or say not be ieclodsd in
total1 population by ag.   odse  s .   thermailty and fertility rtes..                    the houshold far  tsetistine  prose
Projsution par --at  f- or torlity raise nonprise of three level .a.... -               verne nuber of o...... Bee room - natal,ae. -b           e d raral - Average  o
ing life onpacia...y at birth ucra.. tins with  -outry'a Pert pita inc.m.                her of persos  e  soo, in al  ace,   adcrlaapidcoet
lecal. amA Omeat  life  nanar   tbiltieg~ at 77 .1  ea              The pars-             delnstsPs..icel.  aslssaldaeresettotre
sot.r  f or fo..nilitp rte  ltt    hv  three1-  ..... ssuing decline in                   us.ocoapied par ts.
fetlity_ acodint     -icacDea  cod petfamily planning petfar.a..e.                  Ac.... so El-ctric it  (arn-  of deellias.).   tota.1          b urs. ad trara  -
fItch.. coutry ie. uhee aind sto   hes   ice cableatien of vetuIttp                       Coeennio..al d-e11tog  aith elotnicity im living  uariste atpercetage
an   e tilt   rnsfr Prjie Puo"ss                                                    of tia, urhee, and ros- delinsr-sp-nicely.
Snationary peoltnian- I  0satan             poplation th.r. it no groth  isie
the hirth rats is aqual to the death rats, and also the age staturs  -               tEDUCATION
main ,rotant   Thle Ca ochisc,d oclyaI..t f-1rtity estee denies t no                   jAd)si-td ta_ao   patIos
thI Ilanvn  ee  of unit oat raptodetia  rata, when e-h genr tine                 Pr=Imay sba      os.mi  a   eae-Amttl   aeadfml
ul o.men -spl.e. itsl    toaiy.  The  t isianay  ppln                ine eseelenofalgsantoprimary level saPet-sanges of   satc
antimted a  the baste of the pnojncted cha-atirietits of the populatiet                     pieyebe-g    oaain;nomlyicuetcide   gd6l
toteya100, and tie rate of dool ine of fertility ra  tsocrpae                             years bat adjusted fan differsnt lengths of prisn-y edun..nior; for
menu loca.                                                                                  coutries  ithene            Ida .d.nation enoles   a  earned to  .peroe..t
Lon- nionr  pulto is reached - The you  when  it.tana-y papolati-r                            sic-oeppl   r eo   or abos the offinia ~ school age.
sloe ha  bean rached.                                              enoofar  sod oo  -  otl       1ml end femal  - Campu.-d as  bhc;  sandt
Fcpuletioo Itosity                                                      e~dct itm  reuie.    a  lat  ou   easoftapprovd primay ieanim
Pee en. km. - Mid- yea  papulatino pot sqa.te  kilmot-e (lD  heuneres) ofp-dI tt'.h
-_L     ..                                                                    -f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~salya  12 to 17 Years of  gfe;  -r-repond-ete  ore.r   eae
Per e.hn, agiculturl laud - Computed as  bhac  foe egicoltu-l land                            ennu1.1ded.V.tt.
onlyV .                                                                                   Oootia .     e.. iea 1(cement of scnay  -   tsiaa  inatiteis
Poculation ARs Structure (pal tten   - Childre  (I-li yrr), working-age (15-                     inalude teahainal, indeeril  o   ther prtgum   whih operat  iedapna-
64  er)  an  retired (65 years aed coed  as pe--enree  tf end-yea  .pap-                      dantlyora  depsoteents of sada_y inituitrus
lto;1960, 1970, and 1978 data                                                           .Pal-te...he.  rai       rimeny.  n   oadr           oa   idets enrolld in
P.rulationLewb sn(crnn-toa    A Annual growh rate  of t-ne  mid-                                 prmryndenodry Ilevel  dicidedb   ubr   fteaher.                    nh
yse  popuations fo   ..95.-hI. 19h_ 0-71 -ad 197070                                      norreepoedisg  e-sl..
PocuIation Grnoth Rtne (pation.      urban - Annual gro-th re.e. of urban popa-               Adalt litear teas        -...et)- L,itr-ts adults (able tr  ead amd seine)
lati..e for 19510-h, 1960-70, end 1970)-78.                                                   asape_cenngstf( nta1 adult pepolatias aged 15 yeats and aver
Crud  BIth  ans Its ihu...nd) - Annua  live hirihe Pn  thoasand of aid-year
yappulentc-;1960, 1070..rd 1979 dare.                                                    CONSUMPTDION
Crude Ieti Eas (peethousad) - Annual deoths per thousan.d of mid-ys-                  Passenger Care (per thousan d p,oaulatia) - Passen ger care remprise eat
pplto;1960, 1970, a-d 1979 daa,caseting lens thenegt .pon;  eltedes   b as .a.a.e. he-..e  and
Itn   eRopdatti-n Rtne-A__rug   oumbor of d-egheta- unanall hate ismIey  sile
bet corl -sprdu-nios period if she ap-ie..... presen tag-.peilit fee-                     Radin ienican  los  thoe-ad pecelatior) - All types of receivr  Oar f adh
tilityrm--;at-lly 0 ic-year averages ending is1967, 1970, and 1977.                         beoudrests n  general public Pee thousan.d of Pop tias; sailed. me ei-
FamlyPlania -icecars  htanl  thosads  -  nnal  umer  r  nuptat       es Idtnoivnes ft coutries end ia  er  when  tsgstioa of radio  e
ofil birh-trne    dcicen une..p.sc  mtoe   aiyOartapnre                                       e  in sffeot; data far  -ee    eas  a e       on be coparble scas   os
Family Fleontoe-lerc   (ecnof matriedana.              eteaso    ard                      -etries abolished licensing.
ros   f child-benrig ago (15-44 yese) who canhith-tontoldcires to                     TX  tcivere (pe h ...aas ond      lnin   - TV aein--  foe breadu...t to
al -nro ae  in name age grou.                                                     gT ser-lpablia pea thotasad papelatiom; emoldes unli-mmsd TV n.enivers
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                     ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~in   --nties tad in years ehenagstaisof TNst  maeinefot.
Ender of Food Poduttion Par iC.ite (1969-71-lII) - Iedaa of penc N.i t. aul                   te   f"al  general-  th.-st swpapar"ti * d-ie   asSb-               aialpb
m-dortim  of all food rommdirIe.- P-od-rin encludes seed tad fas.              n             iano    eoeddpiaiy  otnodm    esrlmw. Id P-is  daideredb
is o  calnda  yoa  heit.    onuoditas  overpriary  ood (e.g. .. ga..and           no be "daily" if in aPpper  en        ..e  Pou-rteawek
iooirad of sugar) ehich are  diie an          ntia ntriante(.g.cfa   n                   CieemA kn..a Ittssdaus ear Capita ow  Year - Beset onhe meber of
tea ar  anoloded).  Aggregate production of eath ...totey is bss..d Ontinkers sold darn    bayr.iadig admissions  no drive-is niamea
nainlaaaeprnd... price weighs  1961-65, 197, ard 1979 dor..                                        t.   h   .t   .Ii
Per tayita sunolt oftlrr   creto   sarmna       optdfo                                       nd mobile  sis
stary equi-alent ofst food auPPIes avala,ble  intus-y Pee t.pit.                    L7.0R0 pORCE
ynda.   AvailablesPPlies comprisedmsi  pdu-tio. impo-te lean                          Tona Labor Pac- (thau...ede) - coEemIraly a-inepros  iauleding
aupura, an   oheoineItoci   Nat eupplien e-clde anima  feed, sede                   amd farce   n   aepee   u  anuighosevs  erdmt.ttc.
qunite codInodpoesn, and loert  dinneibutior.  Neqaira-                                Defisiti... in cartoes aeatias  eemoorcparabhe  160, 0970 and
set   eota ~tiatd hr 7AO bessd on physinogicai aed  for, a,-a  ettt-                1979 Aste.
tri _ad health  ...sidor ing  ..vi-_tmanra  tamp Aru e  bIody eribte,.9 sf0            amel  (apcsat) - Female lboc force at pr-retege of ntaI labor forte.
and sa  dietribato.     tcplt ion.ofand allowief 10 patter  Ear meets at                Agriculture  (pretreat) - Labor forte in fermiegjqo,-tray, hootin g and
honhl  m;16-8,07,  n   97det.                                                       fishitag as peecemtage of totalI laor fern; 6198,190 ed 1979 date
fancuitaauolooforoal  tete  on  dy)    PotIn cnstooacpia                           industy (r-ar..nt) -Labor forc  in siisg.. ...ne.'.in    aentn
co  spply n  food Parday.   e   upl    f.id in dnfinsd as uboc.  Re-                   ta    lcrct,etredsaspentg    f tota lsjbao farce; 1160,
qairen..nta  fE- all cocrranrelit.had by 0010 provide ic  mniu                            1970 and 19"78 dta.
utloet.ca of hO frame o  total.1, p.ccin pe  day aed 20 green of animal and             Pa-icopotite ic       crE nt       oa,mLe., and tamale - P-rticiPti-o or
polio potata, ufwitch 10gyano shuld bn uimal protein.Th3   nofd               artnitiyraeatnmandasntl,ml, aed fsmas laborfocea
ordn ar  lowe  rha  those of 75 gRams of -coa1 protein en  23 Iras  opeeng                             of tota,  mae  n  fmaepopltian  of all a ge   _nspetit_sY;
an imalpr t     t  anacra        - o  th.  -cld, p-upo...d by PAO in the Third            1960. 1970, ood 1975 dana.  These are: I1'L  participation rates tafle-ning
Ourid  yod Oucry; 161-AS,  1970 and 1977 dac.t.                                           -'          Io   h   ...i.    d    at.   ,               .A
Par cacu1te yrcntin sanY from animal endpcao- Protmm   supply of food d.                     a a'S'o ottur        fteppino,nd  oghm   rn,0Swtn
rhive   rmoieead   pl               ngascoday;  91-6,070ed17dae                           Ecnmcnedsy ERle. - Eatia of populti-c under 15 and 65 end aoen
Child (ues 1-07fOcrtalty tRn' (yet thuad) - Aortal deaths Pertosadi                       to the total leb- fette.
age group I-  peace, to ohdrne  iibis ags gru;frms dclytgca
tries dafa deriVad fete lifo tablet; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data. INCOME DISTRIBUTION
OEAITh                                                              Percentage ~~~~~~~~~~of Privte  toan   (bath in cash end kind)  R- Nciced by riches
liOta incettunir at Birth(ve)- Averag  rusher of y-r  of life  -snining                        5  -csn, rihe   0rcat   ooet2   eno   adpoer1   eun
I tE   1,   7 _ 78)                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~of ho...eheldi.
Omfa_  OcrtaJitr Itar  (par thousan.d) - Annul doatbo of iofunisond- ... year    POVERTY TARGET GROOPSF
of  go par tlhcocatd IlIc  births.                                                       Estimated Abeoluts Poceaty Im-on  LEos (It  teen$ P oa pit:)-urhs   and rura  -
Acconno-     f    atna (Percent of  cclnc)-ital, urban, end rura I                             Abslt1oetyIcm   oa  it thatitoelsIThT TH5h . ieial
Number ct pecp..   (tta,  rbn, d rural) .ih rnnboatist   ae                                 nnitniydnaediet plu.a.. sennie1 non-tcd raqoir-mtte  inma
oterspply )i-cludea  utratd Ioelace caters- orutreate.d ho noncom ruminated              aftrdabla.
cate  suc  ae  hat  rom   rotetodbarehulo, springa, a nd eeiayel)a                eias    saiePvryIcm    ee  IOcrc:le    tbha   tad rurl 
perc..ntaget of thei,r-cp-tnio- populnin.-   In an  Ir..raa.ulc..e.eaie   oer   ncm   ee  i   n-hrdo                                                        g  pet u-pita
-ootuinor -tn part Ilocata   "I nor  than 270 reot fn ahouse may be                         pesnlics   ftetaty.  Uirbue I...l isoderi_ed frmthe tonal
cor-idarad as bsg within rea..ebpa at....ofthat....e..nfruraIso-t
rescaloatetbIldiml     Ita       ....b..s.fa aht neh-c   fth   oeeod             * ee ith adjsetsertfohifh-t cat of licing J. nrb.. ......
Aunt hove to a.od.  d .nPrc triarIt  part of th  day is fatching the                     en idPPula-tio  paioAp leePeet  teom    hove    t.po bani) t- unbar
di"Pua  an p.. rcer togaeoftheit  -ap-t ive popolatic-e.    -It,cl  duo                                                     Eosemio and Social Da.ta Division
pcto  ma  iccudatie-cul-ettoo  aud dunpo...l, cu th or tint ot  __m...r.                                          tt_ait Analysis end Peojettiens aepart-e
cf hnac  ncraa ad  u           bacaa   y  --b-r-hc   ytc  orthees c.  f                                                               Apti1, 1980
pi   rctnad olnilc J. tnaliaticec.



ANNEXI
page 4 oE 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$ 180
b/                                                                                                       C/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH M. constant prices)
US5 Bil,        7.                 1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/7T   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                 117.08       100.0                       3.7               3.6                 3.7               2.8                5.6
Gross Docestic Investment              28.28       24.2
GroCs National Saviog                  28.11       24.0
Currect Accosnt Balance  d/             0.50        0.4
UUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
USS Ml.              7.             Mil.         7             US$        % of National AveraRe
Agricu-ltre                          24.5              46.6             130.0      72.1            188                64
1ndustry                            11.8              22.3              20.2       11.2            582               199
Services                            16.3              31.1              30.2       16.7            542              186
Total/average                       52.6              100.0            180.4      100.0            292              100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                               1/
General Goverment                                              Central  overmnent
RD. Bn.                of GDP                                  Ra.Bln           Z of GDP
19                 _  1974/75-1978/79                                     1978179   1974/75-1978/79
Carrent Receipcs                    183.65       19.1          18.3                                107.71      11.2          10.6
Corrent Expenditures               177.26        18.4          16.7                                108.99      11.3          10.1
Corrent Surplus/Deficit              6.41         0.7           1.6                               - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/            78.41         8.1           7.2                                 57.34       6.0           5.1
Extermal Assistance (net) d/         8.15         0.8           1.4                                  8.15       0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71     1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78     1978/79   Sept-ber 1978   September 1979
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Qoasi Money               121.4       198.4        220.3       254.7        308.9        370.4       445.6         398.5           473.7
Bank Credit to Govern-ent (net)    52.6          87.3         95.3       101.1        110.2       134.7        153.9         139.5          161.7
Back Crodit to Comnercial Sector   64.6         107.0        126.7       153.9        185.1        212.2       253.3         225.8           273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                             January 1979    January 1980
Money and Quasi Money as 2.
of GDP                           30.1         33.5         31.5        34.5         38.8        41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0        139.7       174.9        173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8        185.3           224.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7        20.2         25.2        - 1.1         2.1          5.2          -            0.4            20.9
Bank Credit to Government (net)    10.8          12.3          9.2         6.1          9.0         22.2        14.3          16.9            15.9
Bank Credit to Conseercial Sector   19.4         22.6         18.4        21.5         20.3         14.6        19.4          15.6            21.3
t/ The per capita GNP estimate in at market prices, calculated by thl eonveraion -echnique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in thin table are at the average enchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates.
c/ Compated from trend line of GNP at factor coat series. inoluding one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; cot necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
bALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h/ 1979 -o  Mhl7EDSC MIORTS (AVE8AC  1975176 - 19781791
ULSS Mlla1
Exports of Goods                        5,753      6.315       6,976      7,800           Engineering Goods             671         11
Imports of Goods                      -5,928      -7,188      -8,488    -11,000           Te                            420          7
Trade Balance                          -  175     -  873      -1.512     -3,200           GM_                           499          8
NFS (net)                                 379        692         882      1,050           Clothing                      378          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                          204      -181        -630    -2,150                    Products               319          5
Jute KManfactures             251          4
Interest Payments (net)  i/             -182       -  89         130        400           Iron Ore                      270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -          -           -         -             Cotton Textiles               248          4
Net Transfers   j/                        695      1,077       1,000      1,000           Sugsr                         224          4
Balance on Current Account                717        87                    -750           Others                      2,649         45
m                 ~Total                       5.929        lo
Official Aid
Disbursements                       1,955       1,628      1,695       1,870           EXTERNAL DEBT. HNACI  31. 1979
Amortization                         -560        -645        -702    -   687                                              US$ billion
Transactions with 1HF                    -337       -330        -158        -             Outstanding and Disbursed                 15.5
All Other Items                          -200        616         199    -  -183           Undiebursed                                5.2
Outstanding, including                   20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)               -1,575     -2.076      -1,534    -   250               Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               3,747      5,823       7,357      7,607
Net Reserves (end year)  ki/            3,276      5,668       7,357      7,607           DEBT SERVICE PATIO FOR 1978/79        15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                IBRD/IID  L1EIDING, DUC         31. 1979
Imports                                 1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                                US$ million
of which: Petroleum                 1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                           IBII             U
Exports                                    37         32          24        _             Outstanding and Disbursed       689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                     21         18         n.a.       _             Undisbursed                     614             2,621
Outstanding, including        1,303            6,907
Undisbursad
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-Decmber 1971              US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Ras 1.00  .USSO 133333
Kid-Decmber 1971 to end-June 1972    s USS1.00 m Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00   US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-Dec_sber 1978               USS1.00 - Rs 8.188
Rs 1.00 - US$0.122
End-December 1979                         US$1.00 * Rs 7.907
Rs 1.00 m US10.126
h/ Estimated.
Fi Figures given cover all investmant income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign asasts.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
kV Excludes net use of IMP credit.
r1/  Aortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of mrchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower        Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
42 Loans/                                          1,163.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                   3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                    --        12.0       4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                  --          8.0       1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I        --         55.0      1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing              --         13.0       6.43
lOll-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0         --        14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy              --         30.0     19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD          --        83.0      31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy              --         27.7     14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy         --         16.4      6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas          --         35.0      2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer            109.0      --         1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI             100.0      --         1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation               --         45.0      4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development              --         34.0       9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD             --         24.0       2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                   --         40.0     17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry          --       105.0      35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV        --       150.0      60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0      1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0            90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                     40.0    --      16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I            25.0            23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunications VI    80.0    --         21.98
1335-IN    19?b      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0                8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --      :30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --      150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --       12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries           14.0    --      11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --       23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --       70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --       13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation          --       58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII            80.0    --      15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --      107.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0   --           21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0   --           79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation       --    126.0         88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power        --    200.0        161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture            --      14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation         --      85.0        73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II          --      16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   --             56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy             --    150.0        135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0        189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation         --    111.0         59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0        154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              --      38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                       --      30.0        19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0   --           50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   --    200.0        176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation          --    129.0        112.29
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water
Supply                  --      48.0        47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                --    175.0        151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ mnillion
Loan or                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979      India   ARDC III                  --     250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries          --      20.0       20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --     210.0      192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry               --      37.0       34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II             --      46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980      India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --        32.0       32.00
1004-IN    1980      India   U.P. Tubewells            --      18.0       17.52
1011-IN    1980      India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --       175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980      India   Singrauli Thermal II    --       300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980      India   Cashewnut                 --      22.0       21.95
1028-IN    1980      India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension              --      10.0       10.00
1033-IN*   1980      India   Calcutta Urban
Transport              --      56.0       56.00
1034-IN*   1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --        54.0       54.00
1046-IN    1980      India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage           --      80.0       79.88
1843-IN    1980      ICICI   Industry DFC XIII        100.0    --         94.87
1887-IN*   1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  25.0    *--        25.00
1053-IN*   1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  --     225.0      225.00
1897-IN*   1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development       30.0    --         30.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development           400.0              400.00
Total                                           2,833.0 8,511.6
of which has been repaid                      1,060.9    72.0
Total now outstanding                            1,772.0 8,439.9
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           120.3           5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                1,766.3 8,439.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                     560.7 3,511.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1980)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4        -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2        -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6        -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.1       8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS           99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                           25.9        1.7      27.6
Repaid                        19.8          -      19.8
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      47.2        8.5      55.7
Undisbursed                   48.5         1.1     49.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$3,834 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow--disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097  Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Prolect; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 198L
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Prolect; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directolrs
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that. they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
the last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31. 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
The water treatment works were successfully completed on schedule at the
end of 1979.  Completion of construction of the project sewerage works is
scheduled for mid-1980. Financial performance of the project entity is
satisfactory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition prob-
lems and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and
service areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of
the final sections of these areas. Increased attention shouLd be turned
to the financial analysis and marketing strategies required Ito ensure that
anticipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading
components and thus replicability is actually achieved. Teclanical assis-
tance is being sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project: US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Proiect; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; C:Losing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million cred-it of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing D)ate: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 millicn credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated.  Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30. 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.() million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 mil:Lion credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight creditl- fi-ance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adapitive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978: Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Prolect; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Proiect; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, L976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980;_Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053 December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam pro-
ject.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12. 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MADHYA PRADESH MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
Government of Madhya Pradesh
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first mission to consider the project
September 1978; September 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 1981
Section II:          Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:         Special Conditions
(a) GOMP to complete the MIPs started under the project,
in accordance with agreed technical and economic
criteria (paragraph 37).
(b) GOMP to constitute a panel of experts for reviewing
plans and designs of MIP dams and associated
structures and for conducting periodic reviews
during design and construction (paragraph 38).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) GOMP to cause completed MIP dams and related
structures to be periodically inspected to deter-
mine any deficiencies that might endanger their
safety, and to propose appropriate arrangements
to this end not later than one year before the
expected completion of the respective dam (para-
graph 38).
(d) GOMP, prior to the appraisal and approval of each
MIP, to develop a comprehensive resettlement plan
for the relocation of residents in the reservoir
areas, and to provide compensation in the form of
cultivable land (paragraph 38).
(e) GOMP to employ consultants, with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the
planning and design of the distribution system of
MIPs (paragraph 39).






IBRD 1514t
R  A                                                                                                                                       A  AS THA  N  T/ \H,  A  ,A RA  RE    E  H
40*'          ,,         C-1                            9           '    ,                  d        
/e j\ ,~7q *,;                         K -   sXP S '~kA  '  (   f  \f  A e                      }       _
GUJARAT~-'KA                                                 ~'9    AS0
.'              k,-oj                                  :                                     L
A0._ L0  AooEMo >'-                                                                               I 
'7i~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
M     A     H    A      R    A      S    H      T     R    A                                                  OR   I  S  S  A
_,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t ,                                                  \    ,
INDIA                                  K
MADHYA PRADESH MAJOR AND MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS  < N                          \        T     ;
A-t T d 1-f1wi- ElSIID A  I \L/
EW I sx z . _ \ ero{seD DA5 0 A-T A09 %0 \           $
b   1lil   i   i111        4     NGDAMSANDPese~~0     OT0T =I ER AII N   ToOA R E  0 -               00 /t
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



