CREDIT NUMBER /A9 t IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER /f IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  .16        , 1981, between
INDIA, ACTING BY ITS PRESIDENT (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Madhya Pradesh (hereinafter called
Madhya Pradesh), Madhya Pradesh has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Madhya Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Madhya Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all


﻿-2-
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement; and
(b) MIP (Medium Irrigation Project) means an irrigation
project of medium size, comprising a cultivable command area of
between 2,000 to 15,000 hectares, included or to be included in
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred twelve million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 112,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1991, and ending November 15,
2030, each installment to and including the    istallment payable
on November 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Madhya
Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Credit to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's stan-
dard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of
India.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that all MIPs shall
be appraised, approved, carried out and monitored subject to and
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿(a) Madhya Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Madhya Pradesh will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Madhya
Pradesh.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the execution of the Project Agreement on
behalf of Madhya Pradesh has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Madhya Pradesh, and is
legally binding upon Madhya Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date              %I,    1981, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sect ion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the


﻿-5-
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 6 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
11             South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 100,970,000        70%
(2) Equipment and                 5,810,000        100% of for-
Vehicles                                      eign expendi-
tures,
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory and
70% of other
expenditures
(3) Technical Assistance            980,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                   4,840,000
TOTAL        112,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any coui ry other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿-8-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the irrigation development in Madhya Pradesh over a five-year
period. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Construction of about 30 MIPs;
Part B:   Provision of equipment to improve the hydrological
data base for the planning of future major and medium
irrigation projects;
Part t:   Preparation of evaluation studies and monitoring of the
Project;
Part D:   Establishment of a water management component to experi-
ment with selective improvements in the infrastructure
and management of the following existing MIPs: Satak,
Saroda, Ajnal and Chillar;
Part E:   Establishment of training programs for operational and
management staff of the Irrigation and Agricultural
Departments of Madhya Pradesh;
Part F:   Provision of technical services to assist Madhya Pradesh
in the planning and design of the distribution system of
the MIPs; and
Part G:   Establishment of four demonstration farms of about 10
hectares each for irrigated agriculture.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures for Appraisal and Progress
Monitoring of Medium Irrigation Projects (MIPs)
A.   The Central Water Commission under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Irrigation of the Borrower shall maintain an
Appraisal Committee which shall be responsible for appraisal
and monitoring of the progress of individual MIPs. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the procedures for
appraisal and monitoring shall be as follows:
1.   Preparation
Madhya Pradesh shall be responsible for the preparation
of each MIP.   The Appraisal Committee shall monitor the
progress of the preparation of MIPs through field visits and
review of reports, plans, specifications, contract documents,
construction and procurement schedules.
2.   Appraisal
Madhya Pradesh shall submit each MIP to the Appraisal
Committee for appraisal.   The committee or its representa-
tives shall (a) visit the MIP area, (b) review reports,
plans, designs and specifications to ensure that the MIP has
been designed in accordance with (i) established technical
criteria, and (ii) sound engineering practices with special
emphasis given to the safety of the dam structures and to the
drainage plan, (c) review and, if required, adjust cost
estimates and schedules of expenditures to properly reflect
the likely cost of the MIP, (d) review the cropping pattern
of the proposed MIP to ensure that it is realistic and
suitable for that MIP area, (e) review arrangements for
resettlement of families affected by the MIP in accordance
with Madhya Pradesh's policies, and (f) review the adequacy
of extension, credit, input supply, transport and marketing
facilities available to farmers in the MIP area. The review
of the design of the dam structures with regard to safety
referred to in paragraph (b) above would be made by the
Central Water Commission.
3.   Approval
Any MIP that meets the criteria established for the MIPs
among the Borrower, the Association and Madhya Pradesh, is


﻿- 11 -
designed in accordance with sound engineering practices,
costs less than Rs. hundred million excluding expected price
increases and has a cropping pattern )hat is realistic and
suitable for the MIP area, may be approved by the Appraisal
Committee for financing from the proceeds of the Credit. Any
other MIP shall be submitted to the Association for approval.
4.   Implementation
The Appraisal Committee or its representatives shall
visit the site of each MIP under construction, and review
relevant records, plans, specifications and procurement
schedules in order: (a) to ensure that the MIP is constructed
in accordance with the established technical criteria and
sound engineering practices, (b) to monitor the progress
of the construction, and (c) to assist Madhya Pradesh in
solving any technical problems that might arise.
5.   Operation and Maintenance
A.   The Appraisal Committee shall review for each MIP, for a
period not exceeding two years after completion of each
MIP, records maintained by Madhya Pradesh on (a) the area
irrigated in each irrigation season, (b) monthly inflow and
water release data, and (c) costs of and organization for
operation and maintenance of the MIP, in order to ensure that
the MIP is operated and maintained in accordance with sound
economic and engineering standards.
B.   Madhya Pradesh shall make available to the Appraisal
Committee or its representatives plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, construction and procurement
schedules and other records in respect of MIPs to be financed
under the Project, as the Appraisal Committee might reason-
ably request.
C.   The Appraisal Committee shall prepare reports on the
conclusions of its appraisal and monitoring, of such scope
and detail, and at such times as have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F                         R.
FOR SECRETARY


