Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H117 BU 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Agricultural Rehabilitation and Sustainable Land Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 3, 2004
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H117 BU 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated June 10, 2004, from 
the Recipient describing a program of objectives, policies, and actions designed to 
rehabilitate its agricultural sector and promote sustainable land management in its 
territory (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), and which forms part 
of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
the Recipient has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust 
Fund by certain members of the Bank, to provide additional assistance towards the 
financing of the Project, and by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF Grant 
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is 
making a grant in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $5,000,000 (the GEF 
Grant); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend a grant (the Development Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
Page  3
-
2
-
May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a Community-Based Organization (as hereinafter 
defined) which has met the eligibility criteria set out in Section III.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and to 
which or for whose benefit a Matching Grant is made or proposed to be made; or (ii) a 
Producer Organization (as hereinafter defined) which has met the eligibility criteria set 
out in Section III.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Project Implementation 
Manual (as hereinafter defined) and to which or for whose benefit a Matching Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made; 
(b)  “Burundian Franc” or “BIF” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(c) “CNTA” means Recipient’s National Center for Food Processing 
Technologies; 
(d) “Communal Approval Committee” or “CAC” means the body to be 
established pursuant to Section III.1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and whose 
responsibilities are set out in Section III.1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(e) “Commune” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 1/29 of September 24, 1982, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; 
(f) “Community” means a socially cohesive local population in a Commune of 
the Recipient; 
(g)  “Community-Based Organization” or “CBO” means a group of Community 
members established and operating in a Commune of the Recipient pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 1/11 of April 18, 1992;    
(h) “Dam Safety Analysis” or “DSA” means the part of the Environmental 
Assessment (as hereinafter defined) describing the dam safety measures to be 
implemented in the course of rehabilitation of each dam under the Project, including, in 
particular, institutional arrangements for the training of and the provision of necessary 
technical advisory services to the relevant Beneficiary and for the monitoring of such 
dam as appropriate; 
(i) “Department of Environment” means the unit of the Ministry of Land 
Management, Environment, and Tourism (as hereinafter defined) responsible for 
elaboration of environmental norms and procedures, promotion of environmental actions, 
and operation of Environmental Information Center (as hereinafter defined); 
(j)  “Department of Rural Engineering and Land Preservation” means the unit of 
the Ministry of Land Management, Environment, and Tourism of the Recipient 
responsible for rural engineering and land preservation; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1)-(6) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(l) “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(m)  “Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
part of the EA which sets out the modalities to be followed in assessing the potential 
adverse environmental and social impact of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) and the 
measures to be taken to offset, reduce, or mitigate such adverse impact; 
(n) “Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the assessment, dated 
 
 
 
 
January
 
2004, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, describing the 
potential adverse environmental impact of the Project and measures for the offsetting, 
reduction, or mitigation of such impact, and including the following annexes thereto: 
(i) DSA, (ii) Environmental and Social Management Framework (as hereinafter defined), 
(iii) Environmental Management Plan (as hereinafter defined), (iv) Pest Management 
Plan (as hereinafter defined), and (v) Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter 
defined), as the same may be updated from time to time with the concurrence of the 
Association, to be applied by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of 
Section IV.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o) “Environmental Information Center” means the unit of the Department of 
Environment and Tourism responsible for collection and analysis of environmental data; 
(p) “Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the part of the EA 
which sets out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, 
including capacity building through training, that have been identified by the Recipient to 
eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts of Project activities, offset them, 
or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts; 
(q)  “FACAGRO” means Faculty of Agronomy of University of Burundi; 
(r)  “FAO” means the Food and Agriculture Organization; 
(s) “Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(t) “Fiscal Year (FY)” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, which runs from 
January 1 through December 31 each year; 
(u) “General Direction of Monitoring and Evaluation” means the unit of the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (as hereinafter defined) of the Recipient 
responsible for monitoring and evaluation; 
(v)  “IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations; 
(w)  “IGEBU” means Geographic Institute of Burundi; 
(x) “INECN” means the Recipient’s National Institute for Environment and 
Nature Conservation; 
(y)  “Inter-Provincial Project Coordination and Management Unit” or “IPCMU” 
means the unit established within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (as 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 710/359/2004 of May 19, 2004 
Page  5
-
4
-
for purposes of Province-level coordination and management of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II.4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(z) 
“IRAZ” means the Recipient’s Institute for Agronomic and Zoo-Technical 
Research; 
(aa)  “ISABU” means the Burundian Institute for Agronomic Sciences; 
(bb) “Local Implementing Agency” or “LIA” means a Provincial Agriculture 
and Livestock Department (as hereinafter defined) or a civil society organization, such as 
an NGO (as hereinafter defined), rural micro-finance institution, private agricultural 
enterprise, agricultural consulting firm, or Producer Organization (as hereinafter defined) 
established and operating under the Recipient’s laws, whose responsibilities are set out in 
Section II.5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to which implementation of the Project 
in Provinces may be contracted out by IPCMUs; 
(cc) “Matching Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient 
represented by the NPCMU (hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary, setting forth the 
terms and conditions under which proceeds of the Development Grant or GEF Grant shall 
be made available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of financing Subprojects; 
(dd) “Matching Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing Subprojects; 
(ee) “Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock” or “MAE”
 
means the ministry of 
the Recipient responsible for agriculture and livestock; 
(ff)  “Ministry of Communal Development” means the ministry of the Recipient 
responsible for community development;  
(gg) “Ministry of Development Planning and Reconstruction” means the 
ministry of the Recipient responsible for development planning and reconstruction;  
(hh) “Ministry of Finance” means the ministry of the Recipient responsible for 
finance; 
(ii) “Ministry of Land Management, Environment, and Tourism” or “MATET” 
means the ministry of the Recipient responsible for land management, environment, and 
tourism; 
(jj) “Ministry of Reinsertion and Reintegration of Internally Displaced Persons 
and Returnees” or “MRRDR” means the ministry of the Recipient responsible for 
reinsertion and reintegration of internally displaced persons and returnees; 
(kk)  “Ministry of Social Action and
 
Promotion of Women” means the ministry 
of the Recipient responsible for social action and the promotion of women; 
(ll)  “National Framework for Monitoring and Evaluation of Land Degradation” 
means the Recipient’s framework for purposes of monitoring and evaluation of land 
degradation, to be developed under Part B.2 (d) of the Project; 
(mm) “National Land Management Institute” means the Recipient’s institution 
for land management policy research and economic, technical, and environmental 
analysis of land use and management, an assessment of establishment of which to be 
carried out under Part B.2 (d) of the Project; 
(nn)  “National Land Use and Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan for 
land use and management, to be developed under Part B.2 (d) of the Project; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(oo) 
“National Project Coordination and Management Unit” or “NPCMU” 
means the unit established within MAE pursuant to the Recipient’s Law 
No. 710/359/2004 of May 19, 2004 for purposes of overall coordination and management 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II.3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual; 
(pp) “National Project Steering Committee” or “NPSC” means the policy-
making body established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 710/360/2004 of 
May 19, 2004 for purposes of overall oversight of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II.1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(qq) “NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating 
as such under the laws of the Recipient; 
(rr)  “Pest Management Plan” or “PMP” means the part of the EA describing the 
measures to be taken for development and implementation of integrated pest management 
and safe handling of pesticides in the course of Project implementation; 
(ss) “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
May 14, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18)-month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(tt) “Producer Organization” or “PO” means an organization established and 
operating as a cooperative under the Recipient’s Law No. 1/002 of March 6, 1996, and 
comprising at least five (5) producers, whether farmers, livestock breeders, or non-
farmers / livestock breeders; 
(uu)  “Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the Recipient, and outlining 
financial management, procurement, and disbursement arrangements, environmental and 
social management and monitoring arrangements, and other administrative and 
organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes 
of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM; 
(vv) “Project Preparation Advances” means the two project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to: (i) the Letter 
Agreement signed on behalf of the Association on June 6, 2003 and on behalf of the 
Recipient on June 24, 2003; and (ii) the Letter Agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on March 25, 2004 and on behalf of the Recipient on April 7, 2004; 
(ww) “Province” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 1/29  of September 24, 1982, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; 
(xx) “Provincial Agriculture and Livestock Department” or “DPAE” means a 
Province-level department of the MAE; 
(yy)  “Provincial Approval Committee” or “PAC” means the Province-level body 
to be established in accordance with Section III.1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
whose responsibilities are set out in Section III.1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(zz) 
“Report-Based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal for funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(aaa) “Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the part of the EA 
describing the procedures to be followed in the event that land acquisition is made in the 
course of Project implementation which causes involuntary resettlement and / or loss of 
livelihoods of the displaced persons, and for offsetting, reduction, or mitigation of any 
adverse impact of such resettlement and / or loss; 
(bbb)  “Solidarity 
Chains” 
means 
the 
Recipient’s 
policy 
launched 
in            
March 1996, which is designed to test management of participatory land management 
activities, including an in-kind revolving fund; 
(ccc)  “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(ddd) “Subproject” means a development activity proposed by a Beneficiary 
under Part A.1 of the Project and financed or to be financed through a Matching Grant 
made out of the proceeds of the Development Grant or the GEF Grant; 
(eee)  “Technical Monitoring Committee (TMC)” means the body established in 
accordance with the provisions of  Section II.2 (a)
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement for 
the purposes of monitoring of the Project; 
(fff)  “Technical Monitoring Sub-Committee (TMS)” means the body established 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II.2 (a)
 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for 
the purposes of monitoring of the Project; and 
(ggg) “Unit of Planning, Coordination of Studies, Programming, and Budgets” 
means the unit of the MAE responsible for planning, coordination of studies, 
programming, and budgets. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Development Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million Special Drawing 
Rights (24,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Development Grant may be withdrawn from 
the Development Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Development Grant; and         (ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals 
made under Matching Grants in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, and 
services required for Subprojects and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Development Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Development Grant Account and pay to itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The un-withdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Development Grant, not withdrawn from time to time at a 
rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Development Grant Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date 
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement or 
Page  9
-
8
-
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on          March 
1and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date of the Development Grant shall 
be October 31, 2010, or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association 
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
carry out the Project, through the MAE, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, financial, administrative, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Development Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
Page  10
-
9
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objective; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year, 
commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the first withdrawal 
under the Project Preparation Advance was made
,
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records, and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were Report-Based Disbursements or made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
Page  11
-
10
-
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Development Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section V
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the 
Development Grant, and explains variances between the actual 
and projected sources and uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
(b) 
the regulation or regulations, as the case may be, establishing the 
NPCMU and IPCMUs shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to, 
in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the ability of the NPCMU 
or any of the IPCMUs to perform any of its respective obligations in the pursuit of the 
objective of the Project; and 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant made to 
the Recipient for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled, or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the GEF Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused 
by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations 
under the GEF Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement.  
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the GEF Grant Agreement has been duly executed and ratified 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the GEF Grant Agreement has 
been duly authorized, ratified, and published by the Recipient and is legally binding in 
accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in 
effect until the Development Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
 
Republic of Burundi 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(257) 223 827
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By 
/s/ Antoine Ntamobwa 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
   /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Development Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Development Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Development 
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Development Grant 
 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Matching Grants 
14,000,000 
 
100% of amounts 
 
 
disbursed 
 
(2) Goods 
 
1,410,000 
 100%
 
(3) Works 
180,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services 
5,030,000 
100% 
 (including 
audits) 
 
(5) Training 
850,000 
 
100% 
 
(6) Incremental 
operating 
costs 
570,000 
 
100% 
 
(7) 
Refunding of Project 
800,000 
 
      Amount due  
 
Preparation Advances                                                                pursuant to 
 
Section 2.02 (b) of                    
 
this Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
1,160,0000 
 
_________
TOTAL 24,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, “Incremental operating costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred by the NPCMU and the IPCMUs on account of Project 
Page  17
-
16
-
implementation, management, and monitoring, including office space rental, utilities, and 
supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, 
building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of 
supporting staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
expenditures under Category (1) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, 
for any Matching Grant, unless such Matching Grant has been made in accordance with 
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section III.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
with the provisions of the PIM, and a Matching Grant Agreement, on the terms and 
conditions specified in Section III.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the PIM, has 
been duly executed by and is binding on the parties thereto, and has become effective. 
4. 
It is understood that the percentages in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions in the letter from the Recipient’s Minister 
of Finance to the Association, dated June 4, 2004, which exempt the goods, works, and 
services to be financed under the Project from taxes and customs duties levied by the 
Recipient.  If any change is made to said letter which has the effect of levying taxes or 
customs duties on such goods, works, or services, the percentages referred to above shall 
be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Development Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (e) Matching Grants; (f) training not 
subject to contract; and (g) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Development Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-Based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Development Grant Account, the Recipient shall 
Page  18
-
17
-
submit to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six (6)-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Categories (1)-(6) of the table in Part A.1 
of this Schedule, open and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against seizure, set-off, or attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Development Grant Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account if:  
(a) 
the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-Based 
Disbursements;  
(b) 
the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Development Grant Account; or 
(c) 
the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
Page  19
-
18
-
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-Based 
Disbursements or made on the basis of statements of expenditure.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Development Grant Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six (6) month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding 
amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Development Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-Based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $2,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Development Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Development Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part
 
B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Development Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Development Grant Account under one or more 
of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Development Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section
 
5.02
of
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Development Grant 
Account of the remaining un-withdrawn amount of the Development Grant shall follow 
Page  21
-
20
-
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-Based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Development Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Development Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Development Grant, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Development Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to 
such withdrawal application accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six (6)-month period following the date 
of such reports. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Development Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section
 
5.02
of
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Development Grant 
Account of the remaining un-withdrawn amount of the Development Grant shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the Recipient’s goal of restoring 
the productive capacity and livelihoods of its rural population through economically and 
ecologically sustainable investments. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
A. 
Agricultural Production and Sustainable Land Management
1. 
Matching Grants to CBOs and POs 
(a) 
financing of infrastructure such as: 
(i) 
selected small-scale irrigated horticulture; 
(ii) 
low-cost irrigation infrastructure and equipment; 
(iii) 
water management facilities; 
(iv) 
bean floating tanks and scales for coffee producers; 
(v) 
planting material, and seed crushing units and other equipment 
for nurseries; 
(vi) 
cooling tanks and generators for milk producers; 
(vii) 
artisan seed crushing units and other small equipment for palm 
oil producers; and 
(viii) 
modern beehives and beekeeping equipment; and 
(b) 
financing of sustainable agricultural and land management activities such 
as: 
Page  24
-
23
-
(i) 
scaling up of Solidarity Chains Program and of artificial 
insemination activities in livestock sector; 
(ii) 
provision of high quality seed and planting material, including 
cover plants, and; 
(iii) 
improvement of micro-watershed and soil management, native 
species conservation, and degraded hillside and pasture renewal, 
including through construction of windbreaks, grassed 
waterways, riparian buffer zones, crop cover, and filter strips for 
reduction of wind and water erosion; and 
(c) 
financing of non-farm income-generating activities such as: 
(i) handicraft 
making; 
(ii) agricultural 
tool 
repair; 
(iii) 
brick and tile making; 
(iv) carpentry; 
and 
(v) tailoring. 
2. 
Internally displaced persons and returnees 
 
(a) 
provision of seed, inputs, and farming and cattle rearing implements to 
smallholders; and 
 
(b) 
provision of emergency kits comprising cattle and small agricultural and 
livestock equipment. 
B.  
Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services, including training, workshops, and 
study tours, to CBOs, POs, and LIAs for: 
 
(a) 
strengthening of their organizational, technical, and management 
capacity; 
Page  25
-
24
-
(b) 
representation of Beneficiaries on the NPSC; 
 
(c) 
development of professional and inter-professional organizations for 
better management of key agricultural sub-sectors; and 
 
(d) 
promotion of understanding of broader environmental management 
issues relating to land degradation and swamp land utilization. 
2. Key 
public 
services 
(a) 
provision of goods and technical advisory services, including training, to 
DPAE, General Directorate of Monitoring and Evaluation, and Unit of Planning, 
Coordination of Studies, Programming, and Budgets, for development of program 
planning capacity and effective management systems for monitoring of agricultural 
investments; 
(b) 
provision by DPAE of goods for and training in: 
(i) 
sustainable land management to local staff with Project 
responsibilities; 
(ii) 
agro-forestry to forest technicians; 
(iii) 
wetlands management to rural engineers; 
(iv) 
land management to key farmers in each hill area; 
(v) 
land management to forest inspectors; and 
(vi) 
environmental aspects of wetlands management to staff. 
(c) 
provision of goods and technical advisory services in information 
management to Department of Rural Engineering and Land Preservation; 
(d) 
provision of goods and technical advisory services to MATET for 
strengthening of capacity for integrated land use planning and implementation: 
(i) 
development of National Framework for Monitoring and 
Evaluation of Land Degradation; 
Page  26
-
25
-
(ii) 
updating of global information and environmental monitoring 
and evaluation systems; 
(iii) 
implementation of participatory institutional mechanisms for 
collaboration with DPAE, IGEBU, INECN, IRAZ, and ISABU; 
(iv) 
development of National Land Use and Management Plan; and 
(v) 
assessment of establishment of National Land Management 
Institute. 
(e) 
provision of goods and technical advisory services to MAE and MATET 
for: 
(i) 
assimilation of sustainable land management concepts; 
(ii) 
development of integrated approaches to land management; and 
(iii) 
institutional and policy gap analysis, including in relation to 
planning, resource allocation, and monitoring and coordination 
of use of natural resources. 
(f) 
provision of goods and technical advisory services to Department of 
Environment as follows: 
(i) 
support to geographic information system; 
(ii) 
training in environmental assessment to five (5) staff members; 
(iii) 
support to Project environmental management staff; 
(iv) 
training in development of environmental norms and procedures, 
including in relation to air and water quality standards and 
pesticide use; and 
(v) 
support to Environmental Information Center. 
(g) 
provision of goods and technical advisory services to research agencies, 
including CNTA, FACAGRO, IRAZ, and ISABU, as follows: 
Page  27
-
26
-
(i) 
for resolution of constraints to agricultural productivity, and in 
area of sustainable land management; and 
(ii) 
for development of new technologies. 
C. 
Project Coordination and Management
Provision of goods, works, and technical advisory services to: 
(a) 
NPCMU and IPCMUs for Project coordination and management, 
monitoring, carrying out of audits and periodic evaluations, and reporting; and 
(b) 
NPCMU for monitoring of land management and environmental 
indicators and establishment of participatory implementation processes. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2010. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
I. General
A. 
All goods, works, and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
II. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
following additional procedure. 
 Domestic 
Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
Page  29
-
28
-
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Procurement Guidelines.
 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including computers and vehicles, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured from the IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.
 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods, works, and services required for Part A
 
of
the Project may be procured on 
the basis of community participation in accordance with procedures set forth in the PIM. 
III. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines.  For purposes 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  30
-
29
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7, and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph 5.4, subject to prior 
approval of the Association.  
IV. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Prior Review
.
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to 
the Recipient, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
 
1. 
Goods, Works, and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
(a)  
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply  to: (a) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and the first contract  for goods 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the first contract for works awarded 
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, and the first contract for works awarded on 
the basis of Shopping; and (c) each contract awarded on the basis of community 
participation estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and the first contract 
awarded on the basis of community participation estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent;  
 
Page  31
-
30
-
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting: (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract for its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (h) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more. 
 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s approval 
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individual Consultants
.
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
 
or 
more. 
 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant  to be procured on the basis of 
single source selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and 
conditions of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works, or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  32
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I. Implementation 
Arrangements
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out 
the Project in accordance with the PIM; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not amend, abrogate, or waive the PIM, or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project or achievement of the objective thereof. 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Section, the PIM 
shall include regulations pertaining to: (a) Project monitoring and evaluation; 
(b) Subproject eligibility and procedures; (c) financial management; (d) procurement; and 
(e) such other technical, environmental, social, organizational, and administrative 
arrangements as shall be required for Project implementation. 
II. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
National Project Steering Committee
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the NPSC 
and two NPSSs, in form and substance, and with resources and functions satisfactory to 
the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the NPSC shall, 
inter alia
:
(i) carry out annual reviews of proposals, work plans, and 
budgets prepared by the NPCMU and ensure their consistency with the Program; 
(ii) review progress made towards achieving the Project objective; (iii) facilitate the 
coordination of Project activities among the entities represented in the NPSC, and make 
recommendations for the removal of any obstacles to Project implementation; and 
(iv) provide comments on reports and reviews prepared by the NPCMU for the benefit of 
the Association. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the NPSC shall meet at regular intervals to review the carrying out of Project activities 
and their compliance with the strategy set forth in the Program and invite, as appropriate, 
representatives of other donors to assist at at least any one said meeting each year. 
Page  33
-
32
-
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, the 
NPSC  shall  comprise  members  duly  representing  the  following  entities: (i) MAE;         
(ii) MATET; (iii) Ministry of Communal Development; (iv) Ministry of Development 
Planning and Reconstruction; (v) Ministry of Finance; (vi) Ministry of Social Action and 
Promotion of Women; and (vii) Ministry of Reinstallation of Displaced and Returnees; 
(viii) the Director General of ISABU; (ix) the Project Coordinator; and 
(x) representatives of the private sector and NGOs, as the case may be. 
2. 
Technical Monitoring Committee and Sub-Committees
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the TMC 
and two TMSs, in form and substance, and with resources and functions satisfactory to 
the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, 
the TMC shall, 
inter alia
:
(i) monitor and guide implementation of the Project; and 
(ii) review documents to be submitted
 
to the NPSC such as annual work plans and 
budgets. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, 
the TMC shall comprise representatives of CBOs, MAE, MATET, MRRDR, INECN, 
IRAZ, ISABU, NGOs, POs, and University of Burundi. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, 
the two TMSs shall monitor and guide implementation of Parts A.1 (e) and 2, 
respectively, of the Project. 
(e) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, 
the two TMSs shall be headed by MATET and MRRDR, respectively.  
3. 
National Project Coordination and Management Unit
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the 
NPCMU, in form and substance, and with resources and functions satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of this Section, 
the NPCMU shall be responsible for the overall administration, coordination, 
implementation, environmental and social management, financial management, 
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
Page  34
-
33
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of this Section, 
the NPCMU shall comprise staff with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, including: (i) a Project Coordinator; (ii) an institutional 
and communal development specialist; (iii) a rural development specialist; (iv) a 
sustainable land management specialist; (v) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; (vi) a 
financial management specialist; (vii) a procurement specialist; (viii) an accountant; and 
(ix) support 
staff. 
 
4. 
Inter-Provincial Project Coordination and Management Units
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, until Project completion, an IPCMU in 
each of the Recipient’s following Provinces: (i) Makamba (covering Bururi, Makamba, 
and Rutana Provinces); (ii) Muyinga (covering Cankuzo, Kirundo, Muyinga, and Ngozi 
Provinces); and (iii) Muramvya (covering Bubanza, Muramvya, and Mwaro Provinces). 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of this Section, 
the IPCMUs shall be responsible, under the guidance of the NPCMU, for the day-to-day 
administration, coordination, implementation, environmental management, financial 
management, procurement, and monitoring of Project activities in their respective 
Provinces. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of this Section, 
each IPCMU shall comprise the following staff, with qualifications, experience, and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association: (i) an Inter-Provincial Coordinator; 
(ii) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; and (iii) a secretary / accountant. 
5. 
Local Implementing Agencies
Before Project implementation in a Province, the NPCMU shall enter into an 
agreement with an LIA for such LIA to promote and provide guidance on Project 
activities relating to CBOs and POs in such Province. 
 
 
III.  
Subprojects
1.  
General
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I of this Schedule,    
the Recipient shall appraise, approve, and monitor the Subprojects under Part A.1 of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Section III and the PIM. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall establish the PAC and CAC, in form and substance 
and with resources and functions satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  35
-
34
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of this Section, 
the PAC and CAC shall appraise and approve Subprojects costing more than $5,000 
equivalent and up to $5,000 equivalent, respectively. 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Subprojects
(a) 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under Part A.1 of 
the Project unless the respective approval committee has determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with this Section and the PIM, that the proposed 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the PIM, 
which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(i) 
the proposed Subproject shall be initiated by a CBO or PO which 
meets the eligibility criteria specified in the PIM, and such CBO 
or PO shall be eligible for subsequent Matching Grants if it has 
completed the Subproject to the satisfaction of the Recipient and 
the Association; 
(ii) 
the proposed Subproject shall be for, but not limited to, activities 
set forth in Part A.1 of the Project and further detailed in the 
PIM; 
(iii) 
the investment cost of each proposed Subproject approved by the 
CAC shall not exceed $5,000
 
equivalent and each proposed 
Subproject approved by the PAC shall not exceed $30,000 
equivalent, except as previously agreed with the Association; 
and 
(iv) 
the financing of the proposed Subproject shall be fully covered 
by the sum of the Matching Grant and the Beneficiary’s 
contribution. 
 
(b) 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under Part A.1 of 
the Project if the respective committee has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with this Section and the PIM, that the proposed Subproject 
satisfies any of the non-eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the 
PIM, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(i) 
the proposed Subproject shall be for activities relating to the 
production of tobacco or hallucinogen plants; and 
Page  36
-
35
-
(ii) 
the proposed Subproject shall be for investments not proven to 
be in compliance with applicable land law. 
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Matching Grant Agreements
(a) 
A Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a Matching Grant 
Agreement, to be concluded between the respective IPCMU on behalf of the Recipient 
and a Beneficiary, under terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, described 
in further detail in the PIM, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the following: 
(i) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to contribute, in cash or in kind, 
at least 5% of the projected Subproject costs; 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, engineering, financial, and managerial practices; 
and (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
sound accounting practices, the resources, operations, and 
expenditures relating to the Subproject; 
(iii) 
the requirement that the goods, works, and consultants’ services 
to be financed from the proceeds of the Matching Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Subproject; and 
(iv) 
the right of the IPCMU, on behalf of the Recipient, and of the 
Recipient in its own right, to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Subproject, 
the operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
(B) obtain all information as it, or the Association, shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation, and 
financial condition of Subprojects; and (C) suspend or terminate 
the right of any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Matching 
Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Matching Grant Agreement; 
(b) 
the IPCMU or the Recipient, as the case may be, shall exercise its rights 
under the Matching Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Association and to achieve the Project objective, and, except as the 
Page  37
-
36
-
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive the Matching Grant Agreement or any substantive provision thereof. 
IV. Safeguard 
Policies
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the EA, including the DSA, ESMF, EMP, PMP, and RPF, and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect Project implementation. 
V. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association for approval by the Association as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than October 31 of each year, the annual work 
plan and budget for each subsequent Fiscal Year following FY 2004, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
Semi-Annual Reviews
2. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30 and October 31
 
in each year, for a period 
of twenty-four (24) months commencing the Effective Date, and on or about June 30 in 
each year thereafter, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph
 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by July 31 and November 30
 
in each year, 
or such later dates as the Association shall request, for a period of twenty-four (24) 
months commencing the Effective Date, and on or about July 31 in each year thereafter, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
Page  38
-
37
-
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
Midterm Review
3. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, on or about the date thirty-six (36) 
months after the Effective Date, a comprehensive review (Midterm Review) to assess the 
status of Project implementation.  Such review shall be aimed at: (i) documenting 
progress towards the Project objective, including as measured against the performance 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; (ii) identifying and resolving 
obstacles to Project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the 
Association, targets and corresponding activities to reflect progress achieved in Project 
implementation as of the date of review; 
 
(b) 
invite the NPSC, NPCMU, and IPCMUs to participate, and take all 
actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of representatives of 
Beneficiaries and donors interested in Program implementation in such Midterm Review; 
(c) 
not later than one (1) month
 
before such review, prepare, and furnish to 
the Association a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, needed to 
undertake the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d) 
review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and promptly thereafter take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  39
-
38
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, and 6.05 and Article VII are deleted 
in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”; 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”; 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”;  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”; and 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)      The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
Page  40
-
39
-
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
The text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (a) 
(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
6. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
7. 
 Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c)  Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
Page  41
-
40
-
8. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  42
-
41
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the performance 
indicators set forth below: 
A. 
Outcomes by Midterm Review
1. 
Sustainable land management practices are being implemented and agricultural 
ecosystems are being protected and restored in at least 7,000 hectares of agricultural land 
in the Project implementation area. 
 
2. 
Land degradation-related activities: 
 
(a) 
Erosion control measures are in place in mountainous land in Project 
implementation area, and sustainable agricultural practices are in place in lower areas in 
at least 5% of farmland in the Western Escarpment Zone of the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
Pasture management and erosion control through reforestation have 
improved in at least 5% of pastureland in the Congo - Nile Divide Zone of the territory of 
the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
Agro-sylvan-pastoral production systems have been implemented in at 
least 5% of cultivated land in the Central Plateau of the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(d) 
Improved vegetation cover (windbreaks) and water harvesting techniques 
have been introduced in at least 5% of the Depression Areas (East Zone) of the territory 
of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
At least 80% of returnees and displaced persons having received emergency kits 
under Part A.2 of the Project have returned to agricultural production. 
 
B. 
Outputs by Midterm Review
1. 
At least 1,500 Subprojects have been approved and assessed by the Association 
through a beneficiary assessment as having been or being satisfactorily implemented. 
 
2. 
At least 25% of completed Subprojects have introduced sustainable land 
management practices in at least 0.10 hectares of agricultural holdings each. 
 
3. 
At least 20,000 returnees and displaced persons have received support under the 
Project. 
Page  43
-
42
-
4. 
At least fifteen (15) agricultural applied or adaptive research technologies have 
been tested and adapted to local conditions under the Project. 
 
5. 
At least 80% of the annual capacity building plans formulated by CBOs, POs, 
and LIAs and included in the annual work plans referred to in Section V.1 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement have been assessed by the Association as having been or being 
satisfactorily implemented. 
 
6. 
The EMP has been implemented.
 
C. 
Outcomes by Project Completion
1. 
At least 75% of Beneficiaries continue to operate in accordance with the Project 
objective and follow sustainable land and environmental management practices. 
 
2. 
Sustainable land management practices established in the course of Project 
implementation have stabilized sediment deposition and release in at least three (3) 
micro-watersheds in the Project implementation area. 
 
3. 
Sustainable land management practices are being implemented and agricultural 
ecosystems are being protected and restored in at least 18,000 hectares of agricultural 
land in the Project implementation area. 
4. 
Land degradation-related activities: 
 
(a) 
Erosion control measures are in place in mountainous land in the Project 
implementation area, and sustainable agricultural practices are in place in lower areas in 
at least 10% of farmland in the Western Escarpment Zone of the territory of the 
Recipient; 
 
(b) 
Pasture management and erosion control through reforestation have 
improved in at least 10% of pastureland in the Congo - Nile Divide Zone of the territory 
of the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
Agro-sylvan-pastoral production systems have been implemented in at 
least 10% of cultivated land in the Central Plateau of the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(d) 
Improved vegetation cover (windbreaks) and water harvesting techniques 
have been introduced in at least 10% of the Depression Areas (East Zone) of the territory 
of the Recipient. 
D. 
Outputs by Project Completion
Page  44
-
43
-
1. 
At least 4,000 Subprojects have been approved and assessed by the Association 
through a beneficiary assessment as having been or being satisfactorily implemented. 
 
2. 
At least 50% of completed Subprojects have introduced sustainable land 
management practices in at least 0.10 hectares of agricultural holdings each. 
 
3. 
At least thirty-five (35) agricultural applied or adaptive research technologies 
have been tested and adapted to local conditions under the Project. 
 
4. 
At least 30% of approved Subprojects have been proposed and are being 
managed by women. 
 
5. 
National Land Use and Management Plan has been implemented in at least 
five (5) Provinces in the area of Project implementation. 
 
__________
 
