Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H406-BI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Agricultural Rehabilitation and 
Sustainable Land Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 16, 2008  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H406-BI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 16, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS; AMENDMENT 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in Section I of the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 
1.03. 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the Appendix to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to nine million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,300,000
)
(“Grant”) to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MAE in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it improbable that the Program 
or a significant part of it will be carried out; and 
(b) 
the regulation or regulations, as the case may be, establishing the NPCMU and 
IPCMUs shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as, in the 
opinion of the Association, to materially or adversely affect the ability of the 
NPCMU or any of the IPCMUs to perform any of its respective obligations in the 
pursuit of the objective of the Project. 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
 
Republic of Burundi 
Facsimile:  
(257) 22 223 827 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Bujumbura, Burundi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By /s/ Clotilde NIZIGAMA 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane SOW 
Authorized Representative  
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to restore the productive capacity and livelihoods of the 
Recipient’s rural population through economically and ecologically sustainable investments. 
The Project, which scales up the Original Project, consists of the following parts: 
A. 
Agricultural Production and Sustainable Land Management
1. 
Matching Grants to CBOs and POs 
Financing, through the provision of Matching Grants to CBOs and POs, of: 
(a) 
specific development activities, such as those set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 
to the Original Financing Agreement, designed to enhance agricultural 
production and sustainable land management, with a particular focus on: 
(i) 
(A) production of quality seeds; (B) development of irrigated schemes 
for production of rice in one season and horticultural products, such as 
tomatoes, onions and cabbage during alternate seasons; and 
(C) development of palm oil, livestock, coffee and essential oil; and 
(ii) 
improvement of water and soil management in wetlands; rehabilitation of 
watersheds; promotion of sustainable land management through pilot 
activities to improve vegetative cover, including 
inter alia
,
through the 
introduction of indigenous species, and to protect waterways.  
(b) 
specific development activities designed to enhance agricultural production and 
sustainable land management in Batwa communities in a culturally appropriate 
manner, with a particular focus on small animal husbandry and handicrafts. 
2. 
Internally displaced persons and returnees 
Carrying out of a program to facilitate the reintegration of displaced persons and 
returnees into the economy through the provision of: 
(a) 
seed, inputs, and farming and cattle rearing implements for small farms; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
emergency kits comprising cattle and small agricultural and livestock equipment. 
B.  
Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening
1. CBOs, 
POs, 
LIAs 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacities of (a) CBOs, POs, with a particular 
focus on water us
ers’ associations in irrigated perimeters, coffee grower associations and 
technical staff of coffee washing stations, and (b) LIAs; all through the provision of 
technical advisory services, and training (including workshops, and study tours). 
2. Key 
Public 
Services 
(a) 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen MAE’s capacities in program planning, 
and monitoring and evaluation of agricultural investments, including carrying out 
of an agricultural census, and provision of goods and technical advisory services 
and training required for the program. 
(b) 
Carrying out of a program to:  (i) strengthen the capacities of MATE in (A) land 
management, (B) information management (including through the enhancement 
of MATE’s geographic information system); and (C) integrated land use 
planning; (ii) enhance the skills of farmers, professionals and staff in 
environmentally sustainable land management, including wetlands management; 
(iii) develop provincial action plans for land use management; and (iv) develop 
suitable environmental norms and procedures, including air and water quality 
standards and procedures for pesticide management and use; and provision of 
goods, technical advisory services and training (including workshops and study 
tours) required for the program. 
(c) 
Carrying out by MAE and MATE of a program to improve the planning, 
allocation, and monitoring natural resources in an environmentally sound and 
sustainable manner, such program to include the (i) training of technical staff in 
environmental assessment, and; (ii) development of farm field schools in order to 
promote new land management technologies; and provision of goods, technical 
advisory services and training (including workshops and study tours) required for 
the program. 
(d) 
Carrying out of agricultural and land management research programs aimed at 
resolving constraints to agricultural productivity and sustainable land 
management and developing new technologies (through the provision of goods 
and technical advisory services to research agencies of the Recipient, including 
the National Agricultural Research Institute (ISABU)). 
Page  8
-
7
-
C. 
Project Coordination and Management
Provision of goods, works, and technical advisory services to NPCMU and IPCMUs for 
Project coordination and management, monitoring, carrying out of audits and periodic 
evaluations, and reporting. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
National Project Steering Committee
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the NPSC, in form and 
substance, and with membership, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, to be responsible for general oversight of the Project, including 
(a) reviewing annual work plans and budgets and ensuring consistency of
 the Project’s 
activities with the Program, (b) reviewing Project Reports and progress towards 
achievement of the Project’s objective, and (c) facilitating coordination among the 
entities involved in the Project and resolution of issues that arise during Project 
implementation.  
2. 
Technical Monitoring Committee and Sub-Committees
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a technical monitoring 
committee and two technical monitoring sub-committees, one such sub-committee to be 
headed by MATE and the other to be headed by MRRDR, all with membership, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and each with the 
following responsibilities:  the TMC shall be responsible, 
inter alia 
for: (i) monitoring 
and guiding the technical implementation of the Project; and (ii) reviewing annual work 
plans and budgets to be submitted
 
to the NPSC; and the TMSs shall be responsible for 
monitoring and guiding implementation of Parts A.1 (a) (ii) and A.2, respectively, of the 
Project. 
3. 
National Project Coordination and Management Unit
The Recipient shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the NPCMU, comprised of 
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers (including (a) a Project coordinator; 
(b) an institutional and capacity building specialist; (c) a rural development specialist; 
(d) a sustainable land management specialist; (e) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; 
(f) a financial management specialist; (g) a procurement specialist; (h) an accountant; and 
(i) support staff with resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association), to 
be responsible for the overall administration, coordination, implementation, 
Page  10
-
9
-
environmental and social management, financial management, procurement, and 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
4. 
Inter-Provincial Project Coordination and Management Units
The Recipient shall maintain, until Project completion, in each of the following 
Provinces, an IPCMU
 
with qualified staff in adequate numbers (including (i) an inter-
provincial coordinator; (ii) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; and (iii) a secretary / 
accountant), and with resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to 
be responsible, under the guidance of the NPCMU, for the day-to-day administration, 
coordination, implementation, environmental and social management, financial 
management, procurement, and monitoring of Project activities in the Provinces under its 
responsibility:   
(a)  
Makamba (to be responsible for Bururi, Makamba, and Rutana Provinces);  
(b)  
Muyinga (to be responsible for Cankuzo, Kirundo, Muyinga, and Ngozi 
Provinces); and  
(c)  
Muramvya (to be responsible for Bubanza, Muramvya, and Mwaro Provinces). 
5. 
Local Implementing Agencies
The NPCMU shall maintain in each Province, until Project completion, arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association with an LIA acceptable to the Association whereby such 
LIA shall undertake to provide guidance on Project activities relating to CBOs and POs 
in such Province.  
B. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
 
The Recipient shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM; and (ii) not 
amend, abrogate, or waive the PIM, or any provision thereof, without the prior written 
approval of the Association. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
10 -
D. Annual 
Work 
Plans 
1. 
The Recipient shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than October 31 in each calendar year, a proposed 
annual work plan and budget for the Project for the following calendar year, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
2. 
The Recipient shall:  (a) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Recipient on such proposed work plan; and (b) thereafter carry out such 
work plan and according to such budget, both as shall have been approved by the 
Association during such following year. 
E. Subprojects 
1.  
General
The Recipient shall appraise, approve, and monitor the Subprojects under Part A.1 of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Section I.E and the PIM. 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Subprojects.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing under Part A.1 of the Project unless the Recipient has 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal (including an environmental assessment for the 
Subproject conducted in accordance with the Environmental Assessment), conducted in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association that the proposed Subproject 
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, and such additional criteria as may be 
specified in the PIM: 
(a) 
the proposed Subproject is to be carried out by a CBO or PO which has the 
necessary experience and qualifications to carry out the Subproject, and has 
prepared an acceptable business plan for the Subproject;
 
(b) 
the proposed Subproject:  (i) consists of specific development activities set forth 
in Part A.1 of the Project and further elaborated in the PIM; (ii) is designed to 
(A) benefit at least 20 households; (B) contribute to import substitution or to 
yield export revenues, (C) contribute to growth and employment in the 
Recipient’s rural areas and (D) yield a financial rate of return of at least 25%; 
(iii) complies with all applicable laws and regulations of the Recipient; and 
(iv) does not involve any activities relating to the production of tobacco or 
hallucinogenic plants;  
Page  12
-
11 -
(c) 
the total investment cost of the proposed Subproject is not expected to exceed 
$30,000 equivalent; 
(d) 
the total amount of the Matching Grant does not exceed an amount equivalent to 
500 times the number of households benefiting from the Subproject;  
(e) 
the financing of the proposed Subproject is fully covered by the sum of the 
proposed 
Matching Grant and the Beneficiary’s contribution; and 
(f) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the Subproject, an 
environmental management plan, pest management plan, dam safety plan, 
resettlement plan, and/or indigenous peoples’ plan tailored to the Subproject are 
or is required, such plan or plans have been prepared pursuant to the 
Environmental Assessment and have been approved by the Association. 
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Matching Grant Agreements
(a) 
A Matching Grant shall be made for each Subproject approved in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Section I.E under a Matching Grant 
Agreement between the Recipient (through the respective IPCMU) and the 
Beneficiary implementing the Subproject, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including the following, whereby: 
(i) 
the Beneficiary shall undertake to:  (A) contribute, in cash or in kind, at 
least 5% of the total estimated Subproject cost; (B) carry out the 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound environmental, social, engineering, financial, and managerial 
standards and practices, including in accordance with the provisions of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Financing 
proceeds other than the Recipient; (C) maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance sound accounting practices, the resources, 
operations, and expenditures relating to the Subproject; (D) procure the 
goods, works, and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Matching Grant in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule 2, and use the same exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Subproject; and 
(ii) 
the Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Association, including the right to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Subproject, the 
operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (B) obtain 
Page  13
-
12 -
all information as it, or the Association, shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation, and financial condition of 
Subproject and the Beneficiary; and (C) suspend or terminate the right of 
any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant upon failure 
by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Matching 
Grant Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Matching Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Association and to 
achieve the Project
’s objective, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Matching 
Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
F. Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental Assessment (including the Dam Safety Analysis, 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, Environmental Management Plan, 
Pest Management Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework), and the Indigenous Peoples 
Plan and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend 
or waive any provision of the aforementioned without the prior written agreement of the 
Association. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth below in paragraph 2 of this Section II.A.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.
 
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 consist of the following: 
(a) Outcomes:
(i) 
Productivity increase in the Project area of:  (A) first grade coffee; 
(B) irrigated rice; (C) onions, tomatoes and cabbages; (D) cassava; 
(E) palm oil; and (F) milk. 
Page  14
-
13 -
(ii) 
Increase in number of returnees and internally displaced persons 
reintegrated in their communities.  
(iii) 
Number of hectares of watershed under sustainable land management 
practices rehabilitated. 
(iv) 
Increase in budgetary allocations to the agricultural sector. 
(b) Outputs:
(i) 
Number of subprojects approved and being implemented. 
(ii) 
Number of hectares under irrigation. 
(iii) 
Number of beneficiary households. 
(iv) 
Number of beneficiary coffee growers households. 
(v) Number 
of 
returnees’ households benefiting under the Project. 
(vi) 
Number of Batwa households benefiting under the Project. 
(vii) 
Area of watersheds under sustainable land management practices. 
(viii) 
Completion of an agricultural census. 
(ix) 
Number of provincial land use action plans adopted. 
(x) 
Promulgation of a legislative framework for environmental assessments. 
(xi) 
Number of agricultural research activities completed and farm field 
schools put into operation. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14 -
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Page  16
-
15 -
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. Particular 
Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. O
ther Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  Least-Cost Selection 
(c)  Single-Source Selection 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
Page  17
-
16 -
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for 
Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works and services 
required for: 
(a) Subprojects under Part A 1 of 
the Project 
(b) Parts  A 2, B and C of the 
Project 
 
6,600,000 
 
1,000,000 
100% 
(2) Training 
1,500,000 
100% 
(3) Incremental Operating Costs 
200,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9,300,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made 
for: 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and   
(b) 
expenditures for a Subproject under Category (1), unless a Matching Grant 
Agreement providing a Matching Grant for such Subproject has been concluded 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I. E of this Schedule 2. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2010. 
Page  18
-
17 -
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a CBO which meets the eligibility criteria set out in 
Section I.E 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in the PIM and to 
which or for whose benefit a Matching Grant is made or proposed to be made; or (ii) a 
PO which meets the eligibility criteria set out in said Section I.E 2 and further elaborated 
in the PIM and to which or for whose benefit a Matching Grant is made or proposed to be 
made. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Commune” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 1/29 of September 24, 1982, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
5. 
“Community” means a socially cohesive local population in a Commune of the 
Recipient. 
6. 
“Community-Based Organization” or “CBO” means a group of Community members 
established and operating in a Commune of the Recipient pursuant to the Recipient’s Law 
No. 1/11 of April 18, 1992. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
8. 
“Dam Safety Analysis” or “DSA” means the part of the Environmental Assessment 
describing the dam safety measures to be implemented in the course of rehabilitation of 
each dam under the Project, including, in particular, institutional arrangements for the 
training of and the provision of necessary technical advisory services to the relevant 
Beneficiary and for the monitoring of such dam as appropriate. 
9. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the assessment, dated January
 
2004, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, describing the potential adverse 
Page  19
-
18 -
environmental impact of the Project and measures for the offsetting, reducing, or 
mitigating such impact, and including the following annexes thereto: (i) Dam Safety 
Analysis, (ii) Environmental and Social Management Framework, (iii) Environmental 
Management Plan, (iv) Pest Management Plan, and (v) Resettlement Policy Framework, 
as the same may be updated from time to time with the prior written approval of the 
Association. 
10. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the part of the 
EA which sets out the modalities to be followed in assessing the potential adverse 
environmental and social impact of a Subproject and the measures to be taken to offset, 
reduce, or mitigate such adverse impact. 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the part of the EA which sets out 
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity 
building through training, which have been identified by the Recipient to eliminate any 
adverse environmental and social impacts of Project activities, offset them, or reduce 
them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts. 
12. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, which runs from January 1 
through December 31 each year. 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006). 
14. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the NPCMU 
and the IPCMUs on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring, 
including office space rental, utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, 
vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance 
costs, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of supporting staff, but excluding salaries 
of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
15. 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means the Recipient’s plan, dated April 2008, 
outlining measures to ensure culturally appropriate social and economic benefits for the 
Batwa people under the Project and avoid, minimize, or mitigate or compensate for any 
potential adverse effects on the Batwa people associated with activities to be 
implemented under the Project, including the Subprojects, as the same may be updated 
from time to time with the prior written approval of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Indigenous Peoples Plan. 
16. 
“Inter-Provincial Project Coordination and Management Unit” or “IPCMU” means each 
provincial unit established within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock pursuant to 
Page  20
-
19 -
the Recipient’s Law No. 710/359/2004 of May 19, 2004 for purposes of Province-level 
coordination and management of the Project and referred to in Section I.A 4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
17. 
“Local Implementing Agency” or “LIA” means a Provincial Agriculture and Livestock 
Department or a civil society organization, such as an NGO, rural micro-finance 
institution, private agricultural enterprise, agricultural consulting firm, or PO established 
and operating under the Recipient’s laws, referred to in Section I.A 5 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement  
18. 
“Matching Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Grant for the purpose of financing a Subproject. 
19. 
“Matching Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient and a 
Beneficiary, providing for a Matching Grant to the Beneficiary for the purpose of 
financing a Subproject. 
20. 
“Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock” or “MAE”
 
means the 
Ministère de l’Agriculture 
et de l’Elevage, 
the ministry of the Recipient responsible for agriculture and livestock. 
21. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the ministry of the Recipient responsible for finance. 
22. 
“Ministry of Land Management, Environment, and Tourism” or “MATE” means the 
Ministère de l’Aménagement du Territoire, de l’Environnement et du Tourisme
,
the 
ministry of the Recipient responsible for land management, environment, and tourism. 
23. 
“Ministry of Reinsertion and Reintegration of Internally Displaced Persons and 
Returnees” or “MRRDR” means the 
Ministère de la Réinsertion et de la Réinstallation 
des Déplacés et des Rapatriés,
 the ministry of the Recipient responsible for reinsertion 
and reintegration of internally displaced persons and returnees. 
24. 
“National Project Coordination and Management Unit” or “NPCMU” means the unit 
established within MAE pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 
710/359/2004 of 
May 19, 2004 for purposes of overall coordination and management of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
25. 
“National Project Steering Committee” or “NPSC” means the policy-making body 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 710/360/2004 of May 19, 2004 for 
purposes of oversight of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A 1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20 -
26. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating as such under 
the laws of the Recipient. 
27. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association, dated August 3, 2004, for an Agricultural Rehabilitation 
and Sustainable Land Management Project, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Grant No. H117-BU). 
28. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing Agreement. 
29. 
“Pest Management Plan” or “PMP” means the part of the EA describing the measures to 
be taken for development and implementation of integrated pest management and safe 
handling of pesticides in the course of Project implementation. 
30. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
31. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 26, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
32. 
“Producer Organization” or “PO” means an organization established and operating as a 
cooperative under the Recipient’s Law No. 1/002 of March 6, 1996, and comprising at 
least five (5) producers, whether farmers, livestock breeders, or non-farmers / livestock 
breeders. 
33. 
“Program” means the program designed to rehabilitate the Recipient’s agricultural sector 
and promote sustainable land management in its territory and set forth or referred to in 
the letter dated June 10, 2004 from the Recipient to the Association. 
34. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Recipient’s manual dated 
March 
25, 2008, outlining 
inter alia,
 financial management, procurement, and 
disbursement arrangements, environmental and social management and monitoring 
arrangements for the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the 
PIM. 
35. 
“Province” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 1/29 of September 24, 1982, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
Page  22
-
21 -
36. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the part of the EA describing the 
procedures to be followed in the event that land acquisition is made in the course of 
Project implementation which causes involuntary resettlement and / or loss of livelihoods 
of the displaced persons, and for offsetting, reduction, or mitigation of any adverse 
impact of such resettlement and / or loss. 
37. 
“Subproject” means a specific development activity under Part A.1 of the Project and 
financed or to be financed under a Matching Grant. 
38. 
“Technical Monitoring Committee” or “TMC” means the technical monitoring 
committee referred to in Section I.A 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
39. 
“Technical Monitoring Sub-Committee” or “TMS” means either of the two technical 
monitoring sub-committees referred to in Section I.A 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
40. 
“Training” means the training of persons under Part B of the Project carried out in 
accordance with the work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and approved by the Association, such term to include travel and 
subsistence of participants of seminars, workshops, and study tours, rental of training 
facilities, services of trainers and presenters, preparation and reproduction of training 
materials, and other costs directly related to preparation and implementation of training 
programs. 
Section II. 
Amendment to Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set forth below. 
1. 
The following definition of “Indigenous Peoples Plan” is added as paragraph (x) of 
Section 1.02, and the current paragraphs (x) to (ggg) are renumbered as (y) to (hhh) 
accordingly: 
“(x) 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means the Recipient’s plan, dated April 2008, 
outlining measures to ensure culturally appropriate social and economic benefits for the 
Batwa people under the Project and avoidance, minimization, or mitigation of or 
compensation for any potential adverse effects on the Batwa people associated with 
activities to be implemented under the Project, including the Subprojects, as the same may 
be updated from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Indigenous Peoples Plan.” 
Page  23
-
22 -
2. 
Section IV of Schedule 4 is amended to read as follows: 
“IV. Safeguard 
Policies
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the EA, including the DSA, ESMF, EMP, PMP and RPF, and the IPP and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive 
any provision of the aforementioned without the prior written approval of the 
Association.” 
 
