Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL.Y
C//V 3a4Rl - C14
Report No. 7627-C1
b,AFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 9, 1989
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thi doument has a rescted dishfution ad -y be used by redpi.nS oly in the peRonnace of
their offidal dutes D.; contents may not otherwise be dislosed wFoW Woedd Bank authoizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
Septembe. 1988
Currency Unit: Peso (Ch$)
US Dollar         Peso        Unidad de Fomento
Commercial Rate (nominal)  US$ 1            Ch$ 242.00              0.0565
US$ 0.004132   Ca$ 1
US$17.7                                1.0 UF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 km - 0.62 miles
1 sq. meter = 10.76 sq. feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT       -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
CREDEX     -  Office for Coordination of External Credit
(Oficina de Coordinacion de Credito Externo)
CTU        -  Urban Transport Commission
(Comision de Transporte Urbano)
IDB        -  Inter-American Development Bank
MINTRATEL  -  Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
(Ministerio de Transporte y Telecomunicaciones)
MINVU      -  Ministry of Housing and Urbanism
(Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo)
MOP        -  Ministry of Public Works
(Ministerio de Obras Publicas)
ODEPLAN    -  National Planning Office
(Oficina de Planificacion Nacional)
SECTU      -  Executive Secretariat to the Urban Transport Commission
(Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comision de Transporte Urbano)
SEREMI     -  Regional Ministerial Secretariat
(S.cretaria Regional Min_.sterial)
SERVIU        Regional Housing and Urbanism Services
(Serv'.cio de Vivienda y Urbanismo)
TSM        -  Traffic Systems Management
UF         - Monetary Unit adjusted for inflation
(Unidad de Fomento)
UNAT       -  Technical Standards and Applications Unit
(Unidad de Normas y Aplicaciones Tecnicas)
UVU        -  Urban Roads Unit
(Unidad de Vialidad y Urbanismo)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..................................                      1
II.   THE SECTOR ................................................                       3
A.   The Urban Sector ......................................                      3
B.  Urban Transport  .......................................                      3
C.   Staffing and Training  .................................                     6
D.   Pricing and Cost Recovery  .............................                     6
E.   Urban Transport Issuss  ................................                     7
F.   Government Strategy and Bank's Role  ....                ...............     9
III.   THF PROJECT ...............................................                      10
A. Project Origin .               .........................  10
B. Project Rationale .10
C.   Project Objectives  ....................................                    11
D.   Project Description  ...................................                    11
E.   Project Execution  .....................................                    12
Organization and Management  .........................                   12
Training .........           ...................................         12
Implementation  ......................................                   13
Status of Project Preparation  .......................                   13
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements  ....               ...........    13
F.   Project Costs  .......................  ..                                  14
G.   Financing Plan ........................................                     15
H.   Financial Impact on MINVU .............................                     16
1.  Procurement  ...........................................                     16
J.  Disbursements  .........................................                     18
K.  Accounts and Audits  .......... .........................                    18
L.   Economic Justification  ................................                    19
M.  Distribution of Project Benefits .......................                     19
N.  Air Quality Impact  ....................................                     20
0.   Impact on Employment  ..................................                    20
P.  Land Acquisition  ......................................                     20
Q.  Project Risks ..........................................                     21
IV.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................                     21
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Chile in September 1988. The mission comprised Messrs. John Flora (Senior
Transport Engineer), Stephen Pereira (Finance Specialist, Consultant),
Peter Spratz (Civil Engineer, Consultant), Donald Stout (Economist.
Consultant). Additional preparation assistance was provided by Mr. Luis
Pisani (LATHR Training Specialist) and Mr. Sergio Miquel (Civil Engineering
Consultant). Ms. Marlene Sims assisted in production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
TEXT TABLES                                                             Page No.
III.1 Summary of Costs .14
III.2 Financing Plan .15
III.3 Procurement Arrangements .17
ANNEXES
1 Detailed Project Description .24
2  Project Organization and Implementation .27
3 Summary of Costs .38
4 Training .43
5  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .51
6 Monitoring and Evaluation .52
7 Financial Analysis .56
8 Economic Evaluation .62
9 The Deregulation of the Public Transport System
in Santiago .67
10 Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .75
MAPS
1  Country and Regions                  MAP No. 21216
2  Greater Santiago                     MAP No. 21215



CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Chile.
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Housing and Urbanism, Ministry of Interior (Regional
Governments)
Amount:          US$75 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayment in 17 years including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Objectives:      The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) strengthen
institutional capabilities to plan, manage, and maintain the
urban transport systems in the country in a cost-effective
manner; (b) preserve the national investment in urban road
infrastructure; (c) facilitate the integration of urban
transport elements, reduce congestion, and contribute to a
reduction in air pollution; and (d) demonstrate the efficiency
of alternative public transport modes.
Proiect
Description:    The proposed project would consist of:  (a) development of cost-
effective urban street pavement/maintenance management systems
in each of the country's 13 regions and 'iplementation of a
5-year rehabilitation and maintenance program to bring streets
back into a condition of maintainability (82% of project costs);
(b) construction and evaluation of a pilot segregated
bus/tramway in Santiago to demonstrate less-costly alternatives
to future expansion of the metro system (7%); (c) construction
and evaluation of a pilot bikeway to demonstrate the feasibility
of this mode of travel in Santiago (1Z) (d) implementation of
traffic management measures including bus priority lanes in
Greater Santiago, Greater Concepcion, and Greater Valparaiso to
reduce congestion and pollution (8O); and (e) studies, technical
assistance and training to improve the planning, operation, and
maintenance of the urban transport system (2%).
Benefits:        Deterioration of the urban street infrastructure would be
reduced, the cost-effectiveness of providing maintenance greatly
improved and vehicle operating costs lowered through
implementation of pavement/maintenance management systems
throughout the country and the implementation of a five-year
rehabilitation and maintenance program. Cost-effective
alternatives to expansion of the metro system would be
demonstrated. Pollution from particulates would be reduced as a
result of improved maintenance programs. Traffic management
would reduce accidents, improve vehicular flow, reduce fuel
consumption, lower vehicle operating costs, and reduce vehicle
emissions. Training and institutional strengthening will
improve the delivery and cost-effectiveness of urban transport
services.



- 2 -
Risks:          The major risk involves a breakdown in interagency cooperation
and coordination. This has been mitigated by mechanisms
established and endorsed by the highest levels of government,
and the actual experience of interagency cooperatiorn during
project preparation.
SUMnARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(USS millions)
2 of
2      Base
Components                       Local      Foreign      Total     Foreign   Cost
MINVU Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation              51.0       51.1       102.1        50?       82?
Public Transport                   5.7        5.5         11.2       49Z         92
Traffic Management                  5.6       5.6         11.2       502         92
TOTAL BASE COST                 62.3       62.2       124.5        502      100x
Physical Contingencies             5.9        6.0         11.9       50S        101
Price Contingencies                6.8        6.8         13.6       502        11i
Total Contingencies               12.7       12.8         25.5       50X        212
TOTAL 1/                      75.0       75.0       150.0        50?      1212
1,  Total project costs include US$24 million in taxes and duties.
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ millions)
Local        Foreign          Total
Rep. of Chile          75.0              -            75.0
IBRD                                   75.0           75.0
75.0           75.0           150.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year         1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual                   20.8    17.8    16.1    11.7       6.9     1.7
Cumulative               20.8i/ 38.6    54.7    66.4    73.3    75.0
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:         26?
1/ Includes retroactive financing and deposit to Special Account.



- 3 -
U1. THE SECTOR
A. The Urban Sector
2.01      Chile is a highly urlanized country with over 80? of its 12
mil±ion people concentrated ir. cities. The largest urban agglomeration is
tte Metropo'litan Region of Santiago. which includes 42 municipalities
including the Municipality of Santiago. The three metropolitan areas of
Greater Santiago (pop. 4.4 m'llion), Valparaiso (pop. 0.7 million), and
Concepci6n (pop. 0.8 million) are the largest urban concentrations in the
country and account for about 602 of the total urban population. Even
though Greater Santiago comprises about 49Z of the urban aggregate, it
enjoys a moderate pupulation density (about 7,900 people per km2), which iS
typical of cities in Chile. While metropolitan areas are growing, most of
this growth occurs at the periphery with a stagnation or slight decline in
central area population.
2.02      Approximately 75? of the country's GDP is produced in urban
areas. because of this economic dominance and the concentration of
population, it is important that Chile's cities function efficiently and
that their resources be used to optimize their contribution to national
income. Not only are basic urban services necessary to support productive
activity, but because they are both essential and costly, the efficiency
with which these services are providd has a major impact on the economy.
In recognition of this, the Government of Chile has initiated policies to
improve the efficiency, cost effectiveness and delivery of essential public
services, a critical element of which is transportation.
B. Urban Transport
2.03     General.  Urban transport modes in Chile include private vehicles,
private bus systems, a private trolley bus system in Valparaiso, a public
metro in Greater Santiago, and some bicycle use (which the government is
encouraging). Unfortunately, inadequate planning and maintenance, poor
inte -modal integration within the urban transport system, and insufficient
traffic management, have led to: (a) widespread congestion; (b) increaz'd
vehicle operating costs; (c) higher accident rates; (d) loss of
productivity; and (e) high levels of pollution. Moreover, there are other
deleterious economic and social effects as well. Chile imports about 55? of
its petroleum, therefore inefficient use of imported fuel impacts on
Chile's scarce foreign exchange resources. Also, the urban poor spend from
17 to 302 of their income on public transport compared to a norm of 10 to
152. WAhile Chile's urban transport sector suffers from an array of
problems, street maintenance and rehabilitation is an especially critical
issue affecting all aspects of the system including traffic flow, vehicle
operating costs, and fuel efficiency, as well as representing a substantial
investment of public funds. The environment is also adversely affected as
particulates (dust and debris) from poorly maintained or unpaved streets
are a major cause of air pollution in Greater Santiago.
2.04     Organization and Acministration.  As in most countries, the
responzibility for provibioa of urban transport services is a function of
several entities. All bus and taxi services are provided by private
companies. The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (Mintratel)



- 4 -
is responsible for supervision of these companies, sets technical
standards, and grants permits to operators. The metro system is currently
operated by a directorate of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP); however,
it will be transferred to an independent corporation in early 1989.
Planning, design, construction, and maintenance of the urban street
network, with the exception of the Municipality of Santiago, is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) through its
regional secretariats (SEREMIs) and regional service units (SERVIUs).
(National highways passing through cities remain the responsibility of the
Ministry of Public Works.) The Municipality of Santiago is responsible for
planning, design, implementation, and maintenance of the street
infrastructure system within its boundaries (the central area of Greater
Santiago). Traffic management is the responsibility of each municipality
with enforcement of traffic regulations under the Carabineros de Chile
(police). Recognizing the need to coordinate and rationalize the provision
of these services, the President of the Republic instructed the ministries
involved to cteate a coordinating body at the highest level. Presidential
mandate (Instructivo PRES.REP.(EMPRES.) (0) No. 14135/2) dated March 25,
1982, created the Comision de Transporte Urbano (CTU) comprised of the
Ministers of Transport, Public Works, Housing and Urbanism, and Finance,
the Directors of Planning and of Order and Security (of the Carabineros de
Chile), the Governor of the Santiago Metropolitan Region, the Mayor of the
Municipality of Santiago, and subsequently the Minister of Economy. The
Minister of Transport is the president of this body. An executive
secretariat (SECTU) of qualified professionals was created to provide
technical advice to the commission. CTU was to recommend/review policy and
coordinate programs; moreover, after technical, economic, and financial
evaluation, it was to recommend investment priorities and provide technical
assistance. In reality, there has been little coordination among the
transport modes, investment analysis often ignores less costly
alternatives, and little attention has been given to maintenance. With the
exception of SECTU's influence in the Municipality of Santiago, traffic
management alternatives generally have been ignored. CTU ar.d its executive
secretariat, SECTU, are often bypassed when public transport policy and
investment programs are developed. These issues were preliminarily
addressed during project preparation and would become an integral part of
the overall urban transport sector development strategy that will be
prepared as part of the project (para 2.18).
2.05     Urban Street Maintenance.  The urban street network extends over
10,000 km, only about 502 of which is paved, the rest being mostly gravel
or earth roads. The level of maintenance is inadequate and the physical
condition of the infrastructure is generally poor and getting progressively
worse. Though some municipalities make small contributions to street
maintenance, most of the funding comes from MINVU (except for the
Municipality of Santiago). A major problem has been the lack of
institutional capacity within MINVU to plan and manage an adequate street
maintenance and rehabilitation program. All maintenance and rehabilitation
is done by contract supervised by MINVU's regional agencies. Planning and
project selection is also done at the regional level but with central
office assistance. MINVU has not had staff sufficiently trained in
pavement/maintenance management nor the equipment and other resources
necessary to implement a cost-effective program. A systematic routine and
periodic maintenance program is not carried out and rehabilitation projects



are often selected without being evaluated and compared against other
alternatives. Financial resources ranging from 12 to 20 million dollars per
year have not been used efficiently with subsequent deterioration and loss
of the country's vital Infrastructure investment. This same budget would
fund a reasonably adequate street maintenance program if the system were in
a condition to be maintained and appropriate pavement/maintenance
management principles followed.
2.06     Public Transport.  Although car ownership is relatively high in
Chile, over 70% of all urban trips are made by public transport. This
percentage is even higher in Greater Santiago where public transport
accounts for over 85% of motorized trips. (Public transport in Santiago,
ir.cluding the apparent effects of deregulation, is discussed in detail in
Annex 9.)
2.07     All bus systems in the country are privately owned and operate
with little government regulation or interference. MINTRATEL issues
licenses and performs safety inspections but the private operators are free
to set their own fares and frequency of service. The standard bus is
called a "microbus"; in actuality it is a large bus with a seating capacity
of 35 and a crush capacity of 80-100. In Greater Santiago the total
microbus fleet at the end of 1985 was about 5,600 vehicles serving some two
million passengers per day. "Taxibuses" are smaller buses with a seating
capacity of 20 and crush capacity of 35-50. There were 2,700 taxibuses at
the end of 1985 carrying 1.1 million passengers per day. They provide
virtually the same service as microbuses and charge the same fares (about
US$0.25). Before 1978, Santiago's bus system was subject to stringent
regulation: Mintratel was setting routes, fares, fleet per route, vehicle
types, frequencies, and all service variables. In 1979, the Government
began to implement a series of deregulatory measures which have resulted in
the bus system being one of the least regulated in the world. This
'freedom to operate" is only superficial, however, inasmuch as cartels
generally control fare levels and access of new operators to the system.
Private operators are formed into approximately 35 syndicates. There
appears to be a general surplus of bus seating capacity, with many buses
running half empty on the primary routes during peak hours. Bus-induced
congestion, excessive use of imported fuel, pollution, and an underutilized
metro are causing many officials to consider stronger means to integrate
the various urban transport modes and discourage superfluous buses in the
central area.
2.08     Shared-taxis, another typical transport mode, are regular cars
that ply their ttade on 148 different routes and charge a fare depending on
the journey. The fleet of shared-taxis currentlv tops 4,200 cars. In
addition there are about 20,000 regular taxis in operation. Taxis and
shared-taxis together carry about 500,000 passengers per day.
2.09     The metro is the only urban transport service owned and operated
by the Government. At the present time it is operated by a directorate of
MOP; however, in early 1989 it will be incorporated as a "sociedad
anonima", to function as an independent agency both operationally and
financially, with no subsidies from the government (although the government
will continue to own shares in the new corporation). The preseut system
was substantially completed in 1980 (with one station added last year) and



- 6 -
Is 80Z underground. A rubber-tired system of French design, it is 26 km
long with 36 stations on two lines. The system is clean, efficient, and
well-operated. Average daily ridership is about 550,000, three-fourths of
which is carried on line 1. This is less than half the average system
capacity.   Metro fares (about US$0.20) are slightly lower than bus fares;
even so, for the last two years operating revenues have been sufficient to
cover operating costs, including depreciation and maintenar±ce. Fares are
being reviewed as part of the reorganization and as part of the program to
improve utilization through better integration of the bus and mnetro systems
(see para. 2.17).
2.10     Traffic System Management (TSM).  Introduction ot appropriate
policy, regulations. traffic engineering measures, and enforcement greatly
expands the safety and operating capacity of existing infrastructure
networks and reduces system operating costs. TSM is essential for the
eificient operation of public transport systems and to defer expensive
capital investment to relieve congestion. With the exception of a few
municipalities in Greater Santiago, TSM is not used tc any extent in Chile,
primarily due to a lack of trained professionals and unfamiliarity with the
concept. Studies conducted in Santiago indicate that effective TSM could
greatly reduce accidents and air pollution, and help save approximately 5-9
million gallons of fuel per year in Greater Santiago alone.
C. Staffing and Training
2.11     As mentioned in paras 2.05 and 2.10 above, there is a lack of
adequately trained professionals and understanding cf the interaction
necessary in the urban transport system.  Problem_ affecting the sector are
amplified and often the direct result of constraints in the sector training
system. Training activities in urban transport have primarily been limited
to participation in occasional sector-related seminars.
2.12     Within MINVU, the Unidad de Normas y Aplicaciones Tecnicas (UNAT)
of the Department of Personnel has primary responsibility for training,
however activities have been limited to the housing sector. SECTU personnel
have offered training to municipal officials in transport planning, but
these have been intermittent and not always properly targeted. The
University of Chile and the Catholic University of Chile are both excellent
sources of training in the urban transport sector. However, except for
formal university programs, these resources have not been used.
2.13     To help sector institutions correct these deficiencies, important
training elements have been included in the proposed project. Training
will be provided according to priority needs in consonance with sector
goals for the institutional development process. It will also strengthen
organization, implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and feedback in the
training program (para. 3.06 and 3.07).
D. Pricing and Cost Recovery
2.14     Within the urban transport subsector, pricing and cost recovery
are not the major issues that they are in many Latin American countries.
Approximately 552 of the gasoline used is imported and gasoline prices are
set at or above international rates; buses and taxis are privately operated



and fares ar- ostensibly market driven. Analysis of total public revenues
attributable to the transport sector (licenses, fuel tax, etc.) indicates a
surplus greater than 1002 over public costs associated with providing
transport services. The mnajority of these revenues is derived from the
urban sector. The only publicly operated transport system (metro)
presently covers all operating costs and will become an operationally and
financially independent entity in 1989. At that time metro will assume
responsibility for its debt service obligation, thus ending government
subsidy of the system. During the proposed project, policy and strategy
recommendations will be developed for the organization, operation, and
regulation of the urban transport sector, and specific recommendations will
be made regarding pricing and cost recovery policy (para 4.01 (a)). At the
present time, Government achieves total cost recovery "ithin the national
transport sector, and has agreed to maintain this concept (para 4.01 (b)).
E. Urban Transport Issues
2.15     Major issues affecting the provision of cost-effective urban
transport services in Chile are primarily institutional in nature.
Although top government officials have expressed the need for coordination
and investment analysis, and created the mechanisms to accomplish this,
government agencies have continued to view urban transport not as a system
but as nuvierous discrete modes of travel; furthermore, they have often
ignored the need for cnordinated planning and implementation of investments
as well as the importance of the operational and maintenance aspects. With
some exceptions, such as SECTU, agencies and personnel responsible for
planning, evaluation, operation, and maintenance of elements of the system
have not kept abreast of modern management and analysis techniques, and
multiyear planning is not done. The result is deterioration of urban
transport infrastructure, costly and often unnecessary capital investment,
inefficient delivery of services, and pollution of the urban environment.
2.16     Maintenance of Infrastructure.  The urban street infrastructure
system is rapidly deteriorating due to the lack of cost-effective
maintenance and rehabilitation based on technical, economic and financial
evaluation. MINVU, the agency responsible for urban street maintenance,
lacks the appropriate organizational and fiscal structure as well as
qualified professionals knowledgeable in maintenance and pavement
management systems. The proposed project would address the issue through
institutional reorganization and training, development of cost-effective
urban street pavementlmaintenarace management systems, and implementation of
a multiyear rehabilitation and maintenance program (para 3.04, 3.06).
2.17     Metro.  Because of the substantial investment in the metro and its
potential impact on the metropolitan area, it is important that it function
efficiently as a part of the urban transport network, supporting and
supported by other elements of the system. That it covers its operational
costs is commendable and an important first step in maintaining operational
efficietncy. Because investment costs were subsidized by the national
government in the past, however, revenues must be increased if the new
organization is to be self-financing. ttajor problems presently affecting
the metro are: (a) underutilization of the system: (b) lack of coordination
with the surface transport system; and (c) low coverage of the network but
appatslt lack of justification of further investment for metro extension at



- 8 -
the current estimated cost of US$40-50 million per km. Metro is presently
reviewing its fare structure and other sources of ievenue to prepare for
its incorporation as an independent authority. During preparation of the
proposed project, studies and designs were developed with the assistance of
SECTU to improve facilities at key metro terminals and to facilitate
transfer to and from other surface transport modes. Metro is implementing
these proposals outside of the project. Integrated fares have been
introduced on a pilot basis between metro and designated bus lines. The
proposed project includes construction of an exclusive pilot bus/tramway to
demonsErate the economic, financial, and technical feasibility of this mode
as an alternative to further expansion of the heavy-rail system
(para 3.04).
2.18     Coordination and Investment Analysis.  In the ,ast, lack of
integration of the elements of the urban transport system (travel modes,
maintenance, TSM, provJsion of infrastructure), and inappropriate
investment analysis have resulted in a waste of resources in the provision
of urban transport services. The project would address this issue through
technical assistance, training, and reorganization, and through
implementation of appropriate mechanisms for involvement of CTU/SECTU.
These mechanisms include renewed adherence to the Presidential mandate,
instructions from the Ministries of Finance and Economy that proposed
Investments be reviewed, evaluated, and coordinated by CTU (through their
executive secretariat) before consideration for Government funding, and
regular meetings of CTU. CTU also has formed an executive committee to
coordinate actions involving different agencies to avoid and/or resolve
conflicts within the sector. Each executing agency (MINVU, Intendencias)
is responsible for its owni subproject components. SECTU, as part of the
project, and as originally envisaged at its creation by the Government, is
providing assAstance to each of the agencies through (a) technical review
and economic analysi.s of the proposed programs and (b) guidance and
training in the development of transport policy and TSM programs. During
project preparation, many institutional hurdles have been overcome
regarding SECTU's participation in the planning process with the line
agencies responsible for operation of the urban transport system. It is
anticipated that this process will be further strengthened through practice
during implementation of the project, and the role of SECTU will become
institutionalized as a provider of technical assistance and guidance in
investment analysis, policy formulation, and coordination. During the
project and as part of the Satntiago Urban Transport Study, SECTU would
prepare recommendations for sector policy, strategy, organization, and
necessary courdination/regilation within the system. These recommendations
would be discussed by the Bank and the Government to ensure that objectives
meet overall sector needs, especially in relation to an eventual integrated
urban transport system. Based on these discussions, an action plan would
be developed (para 4.01 (a)). Government would (a) advise the Bank of any
urban transport investment exceeding US$10 million in the pruject area
during the implementation period, (b) provide information about the impact
of such investments on the Bank project. and (c) give the Bank adequate
opportunity to comment on such investment prior to its commenicement.
Execution of any major investment that would adversely affect the Bank
project or undermine its strategy would constitute grounds for suspension
of disbursements for the project or parts thereof (para 4.01 (c)).



- 9 -
2.19     Air Polluttion.  Air pollution in Santiago is high by international
standards, and is worsening. The IDB has recently funded equipment to
measure air pollutants and studies are being conducted to determine the
extent and sources of the problem. Though carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen
oxide (NOX), and hydrocarbons (HC) are being emitted in increasing amounts,
preliminary analysis indicates the major problem is one of particulates.
These particulates are primarily a result of poor street maintenance,
unpaved streets and diesel exhaust. The project will contribute to a
reduction in particulates through improved maintenance procedures and
paving of unpaved streets. The proposed urban transport policy and
strategy study will analyze additional environmental benefits to be gained
from further intermodal planning and bus route rationalization and make
suitable recommendations. The proposed exclusive bus/tramway using
vehicles that are more environmentally efficient should result in a net
reduction of emissions in the selected corridor. Improved traffic
management also will reduce general vehicle emissions (para 3.27). Once
the Government !ias completed its environmental analysis through its on-
going studies, it proposes to develop a comprehensive environmental
program.
2.20     Regulation of Public Transport.  Congestion, pollution. and use of
excessive amounts of imported fuel (and consequently foreign exchange),
caused by an excess of buses in the city are also major issues facing the
urban transport system. The Government has seen the results of ineffective
regulation and understandably is reluctant to reimpose control,
particularly where national policy is so free-market oriented. Due to
mixed feelings in Government about 'regulation', and in 'he absence of an
urban transport policy, system integration, or an institutional focus, a
component particularly addressing bus regulation and access to the city
cannot be implemented at this time. However, the benefits resulting from
the development of improved alternatives for public transport access to the
city center, phasing out older buses, institutional strengthening, and
renewed focus and direction in coordinated planning and policy development
will provide the atmosphere within which this issue can be addressed in the
future. The first step is to develop an awareness of the extent of the
problem and establish an institutional framework and willingness within
which soluitions can be found. As discussed in para. 2.18, recommendations
would be made as part of the Santiago Urban Transport Study for an overall
urban transport policy and strategy, including public transport operation
and control. These recommendations would be discussed with the Bank and an
action plan developed (para 4.01 (a)).
F. Government Strategy and Bank's Role
2.21     The Government continues to follow an adjustment program initiated
in 1985 for long-term growth based on export promotion and import
substitution. Financing this program while continuing to service its
external debt requires great restraint in domestic spending. At the same
time essential public services must be maintained at a level necessary to
support economic activity and social needs. The Government's stated
objective is to reduce waste in and improve cost-effectiveness of the
delivery of basic public services.   With regard to urban transport, the
Government recognizes the need tc halt the continuing deterioration of its
urlban street infrastructure, reduce vehicle operating costs and



- 10 -
unnecessary expenditure of foreign exchange, and maximize the cost-
effectiveness of investments through integrated planning and rigid
technical, economic, and financial analysis.
2.22     The Bank's role through this urban streets and transport project
would be to assist Government to develop the organizational and
institutional capabilities to address the above issues. The project would
also finance the implementation of physical works designed to overcome
years of deferred maintenance, and demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of
alternative, least-cost solutions to meet transport demand. The Bank's
role is that of a catalyst, since technical and organizational capacity
are, in general, very high in Chile. Bank involvement in the sector
provides the country with the institutional focus and financial opportunity
to address the issues described in paragraphs 2.16 t' ough 2.20 and begin
to develop a cost-effective urban tran-port policy. ihis project would be
the first of several similar actions contemplated by the Government to
address urban transport issues. Once the policy, institutional focus, and
strategy have been established, issues such as bus operation, regulation,
and fares can be addressed.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.01     The proposed project was identified in May 1987 to address street
maintenance and rehabilitation issues in the urban areas of Chile. During
preparation, the project was expanded to address institutional aspects of
planning and managing the urban transport systems, traffic management in
the major metropolitan areas, and to include pilot public transport and
bikeway components. The project was appraised September 12-24, 1988.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. January 31-February 3, 1989.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Ramon Figueroa.
B. Project Rationale
3.02     The proposed urban transport project is an integral part of the
Bank's assistance strategy to Chile which includes optimization of
investments in infrastructure maintenance and rehabi'itation, amelioration
of the impact of declining petroleum reserves, as well as help to reduce
environmental pollution. It would support the Government's stated overall
policy objectives of increased efficiency in the delivery of public
services and reduced subsidies. Despite large annual expenditures, urban
transport infrastructure continues to deteriorate due to past institutional
deficiencies and deferred maintenance practices. MINVU has not had staff
sufficiently trained in pavement/maintenance management nor the equipment
and other resources necessary to implement a cost-effective program. A
systematic routine and periodic maintenance program is not carried out and
rehabilitation projects are often selected without being evaluated and
compared against other alternatives. Acknowledging this. the Government
asked the Bank to (a) assist in the development of an institutional
capability to manage effectively urban street maintenance and
rehabilitation in the future; and (b) to fund a program to bring the system



- 11 -
back to a condition of maintainability, thus enabling a cost-effective use
of maintenance funds. The proposed project also serves as a catalyst for
MiNVU to prepare for the first time a multiyear capital investment program.
The public transport components of the proposed project will demonstrate
the effectiveness of less costly alternatives to expansion of the metro
system. Although efficiently operated, the me-ro system requires
government subsidies to service its capital debt, and there is little
intetmodal integration with the privately-operated bus services. In
response to demands for expansion of the metro system, the Government would
use this project to demonstrate the technical, economic, and financial
viability of less costly exclusive bus/tramways to accommodate demand and
reduce government public transport costs. The training and institutional
development components of the project are essential parts of the
Government's program to increase cost-effectiveness and local capability to
deliver public services. This project also provides an impetus for the
integration of the various elements of the urban transport system and
establishes mechanisms for continued interagency cooperation. In keeping
with th. ank's urban transport strategy for the region, it is a first step
toward a m.re systemic, integrated urban transport approach.
C. Objectives
3.03     The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) strengthen
institutional capabilities to plan, manage, and maintain urban transport
systems in Chile in a cost-effective manner; (b) preserve and maintain the
national investment in urban street infrastructure; (c) promote the
objective of iitegrating the urban transport elements as well as reduce
congestion and air pollution; and (d) demonstrate the efficiency of
alternative public transport modes, including bikeways.
D. Project Description
3.04     The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Development of cost effective urban street pavement/maintenance
management systems in each of the country's 13 regions and
implementation of five-year maintenance, paving and rehabilitation
programs to bring streets back into a condition of maintainability
(82Z of project costs).
(b) Construction and evaluation of a pilot segregated bus/tramway in
Santiago to demonstrate less costly alternatives to future
expansion of the metro system (7%).
(c) Construction and evaluation of a pilot bikeway to demonstrate the
feasibility and social benefits of this mode of travel in Santiago
(lZ).
(d) Implementation of traffic management measures including bus
priority lanes in Greater Santiago, Greater Concepci6n, and
Greater Valparaiso to reduce congestion and pollution (8Z).



-12 -
(e)  Studies, technical assistance, and training to improve the
planning operation, and maintenance of the urban transport system
(2Z); an urban transport stuuy to be carried out in Greater
Santiago would include recommendations for sector organization and
policy, and strategy for achievement of policy objectives
(para 4.01 (a)). Project components are delineated in Annex 1.
E. Project Execution
3.05      Organization and Management.  The Government's representative for
administration of the project will be the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism
(MINVU).  Acting through its Office for Coordination of External Credit
(CREDEX). MINVU will be responsible for administration of the proposed
loan, including disburseme-at applications, operation of the Special
Account, preparation and remittance of project progress reports to the
Bank, contracting of project auditors, and general project coordination.
MINVU, through its central and regional offices will be responsible for
developing and implementing the five-year maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in all regions of the country, as well as construction of the
bikeway in Greater Santiago. The Intendencias of Greater Santiago, Greater
Concepci6n, and Greater Valparaiso will be responsible for planning and
implementing the traffic management improvements in their respective areas,
and the Intendencia of Greater Santiago will construct the exclusive
bus/tramway. The Executive Secretariat to the Urban Transport Commission
(SECTU), in its role as technical coordinator of the project, will provide
technical assistance to all agencies in project planning, evaluation, and
implementation, and will be responsible for development and execution of
the traffic management training programs. In particular, it will (a)
assist MINVU to evaluate and develop the street rehabilitation program, and
(b) assist the Intendencias to plan and design the pilot bus/tramway, as
well as plan and implement the traffic management and bikeway schemes.
Detailed monitoring of the pilot public transport and bikeway schemes will
be the responsibility of SECTU. Implementation of specific project
components would be integrated into line agencies to establish a basis for
continuity. Technical assistance with required counterpart staff would be
provided in those agencies that need strengthening and assistance with peak
workloads. All studies except the annual rehabilitation studies have been
designed to be completed during the first half of the project. In this way
pertinent findings can be included during project iwplementation. Project
organization is discussed in Annex 2.
3.06      Training.  Although implementation of civil works comprises the
majority of project costs, success in meeting project objectives depends on
the capacity of the institutions to perpetuate the programs developed
during the project. Training components have been formulated to overcome
the problems described in paragraphs 2.11 and 2.12 by: (a) emphasizing
managerial training as well as that of professionals and technicians
through seminars, postgraduate courses and technical short courses in
foreign countries with exemplary transport schemes: (b) stimulating the use
of external training sources (private and public) already available in
Chile; and (c) establishing the training function for the urban streets
sector as a permanent activity within MINVU's personnel department.



- 13 -
3.07      A two-year training program would upgrade the skills of
managers, professionals and technicians in MINVU, SECTU, and the
Intendencias. Specifically, the training program would involve
approximately 200 persons in a broad range of internal and external
courses. Financing would be provided under the proposed loan for:
(a) preparing and implementing the training program, including
participants' per diem and transportation costs; (b) contracting courses
with local universities; (c) consultant services to assist MINVU and the
sector institutions in planning and implementing the training programs;
(d) study visits abroad for sector staff (mainly management and technical
staff); (e) establishing the sector training program by reinforcing the
MINVU unit in charge of training; and (f) studies of training needs,
including training evaluation and followup. Details of the training
program are presented in Annex 4.
3.08      Implementation.  During the first year of the project, MINVU
would implement pavement/maintenance management systems in each region
(para. 4.01 (d)). These systems would be used to develop annual
maintenance, rehabilitation, and street improvement programs based on
technical and economic analysis and financial parameters. These programs
would be reviewed annually with the Bank and would form the basis of
subproject funding during the second through the fifth year of the project.
During the first year, while the management systems are being developed in
the regions, loan funds would partially finance maintenance and
rehabilitation activities based on Government's current practices.
However, funding would be limited only to economically viable components.
It is estimated that an adequate urban street maintenance program would
require a minimum expenditure of US$12 million (December 1988). The
Government would increase its funding levels to achieve this allocation
with counterpart funds (in real terms) provided from the fourth year of the
project onward. The estimated minimum level of funding is US$13.5 million
in the fourth year, and US$14.0 million in the fifth year (para 4.01 (e)).
3.09      The proposed project would be disbursed over a five-and-one-half-
year period. This is in accordance with experience in urban transport
projects in Latin America as well as in Chile. The majority of project
costs are for annual maintenance/rehabilitation programs being implemented
by several regional agencies simultaneously; design and procurement issues
are not expected to cause delays. Counterpart fund requirements are no
greater than those met by the agencies involved during the past several
years. Project completion is estimated at June 30, 1994 with a closing
date of December 31, 1994. Details of project implementation and a schedule
are provided in Annex 1.
3.10      Status of Project Preparation.  All project implementing agencies
are established and key staff identified as necessary for project
development and implementation are in place. With the exception of routine
and periodic maintenance, engineering designs of all civil works to be
completed during the first year of implementation are done. Terms of
reference for all studies and technical assistance are complete.
3.11      Monitoring and Reporting Requirements.  Based on information
provided by each executing agency, CREDEX would furnish project progress
reports to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. These



- 14 -
reports will focus on physical. financial, and institutional aspects of the
projects in accordance with agreed indicators (4.01 (f)). Key monitoring
and evaluation indicators are described in Annex 6. "Before-and-after"
studies will be carried out by SECTU for the pilot bus/tramway and bikeway
components to measure their technical, economic, and financial viability.
Terms of reference will be developed for these studies prior to bidding of
these projects. "Before' studies will be carried out prior to award of
contracts for construction.
F. Project Costs
3.12      Total project costs are estimated at US$150 million, including
taxes and duties of approximately US$24 million. Foreign exchange costs
represent 502 of the total; hence, the proposed loan of US$75 million would
cover all foreign exchange costs. The project cost summary is shown in
Table III.1; detailed cost tables are given in Annex 3.
3.13      Costs are based on actual prices at the time of appraisal,
projected to January 1, 1989. Costs for civil works construction are based
on contractor's unit prices for similar works in the particular area;
equipment prices are based on manufacturer's quotations and recent
purchases. Fees for technical assistance and other professional services
are based on Chilean and Bank experience with similar locally and
internationally recruited experts in the region. Physical contingencies of
1O0 were included for all civil works. Price contingencies were calculated
with anticipated international inflation rates of 32 for 1988 through 1990,
and 42 from 1991 through 1994.
Table III.1 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Millions)
2 of
2      Base
Components                        Local      Foreign      Total     Foreign   Cost
MHINV' Street Maintenance
and Rehabilitation                 51.0       51.1        102.1        502       822
Public Transport                    5.7        5.5         11.2        492        92
Traffic Management                  5.6        5.6         11.2        502        92
TOTAL BASE COST                  62.3       62.2       124.5        50%       100%
Physical Contingencies              5.9        6.0         11.9        502       102
Price Contingencies                 6.8        6.8         13.6        50%       112
Total Contingencies                12.7       12.8         25.5        502       21%
TOTAL 1/                       75.0      75.0        150.0        5O%       1217
1/ Total project costs include US$24 million in taxes and duties.



- 15 -
G. Financing Plan
3.14    The Bank Loan of US$75 million would finance 50X of total project
costs, which is approximately equivalent to 100l of foreign exchange costs.
The loan would be made to the Government of Chile at the standard variable
rate for 17 years, including 5 years of grace. Beneficiaries of the loan
would be MINVU and Ministry of Interior (i.e., Intendencias), which would
receive the funds as grants from the Government. Counterpart funding for
the project would be provided by the Government of Chile. As shown in the
financing plan (Table III.2), the Bank would fund a greater percentage of
the street maintenance and rehabilitation costs in the early years of the
project than in the latter--thus establishing the precedent of the
Government funding the entire maintenance budget in the fourth year and
thereafter. It was confirmed at negotiations that the Government will
provide an adequate urban street maintenance program (para 4.01 (e)). This
has been estimated to cost approximately US$12 million annually (1988
dollars). The varirtion in annual Bank financing would allow the
Government to reach gradually this level of funding during the first three
project years and establish the basis for maintaining it prior to project
completion.
Table III.2 FINACING
(USS .;I lon)
Calendar Year   1989     1990    1991    1992    1993     1994   Total   TOTAL
Co.ponents    OOC   IeR   COC   loRD    COC. IgoD    0OC IoRD    CCC  I8RD M WC   1M    CIOC   loD    TOTAL
A. HINVU       4.3   10.7   7.5   12.5   11.2   1l.e   15.2   12.8   17.6   10.4    6.8    8.3   62.6   61.8  124.1
S. PUBLIC TRANSPORT  0.4    0 5   0.6    0.7    5.0    5.6    0.1    0.1    0  0  0  0  6.1    6.9   13.0
C. TRAfFIC NANOCE4BET  1.4    1.5   3.0    3.1    1.7    1.8    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0  0  6.8    6.6   12.9
TOTAL     6.1   12.7  11.1   16.3   17.0   19.2   15.4   13.0   17.7   10.5    6.8    8.3   75.0   75.0  150.0
8tC - Go,ernant of Chi I
IIRD - World Bank.
AeXumee project effoctIveneas 7/1/09 and complot;on 6/30/94



- 16 -
H. Financial ImPact on MINVU
3.15     The financial impact of the project on MINVU was examined.  While
capital budgets are financed by own-source revenues and fiscal
appropriations, street rehabilitation is financed principally from the
latter. As a result, there has been no mechanism for translating long-term
maintenance planning into project investments. The proposed proj~ct
serves as a catalyst for the formulation and preparation of a street
maintenance planning process. It is, in effect, the first long-term
investment program MINVU will undertake in street maintenance and
rehabilitation.
3.16     The expected cost of this subproject component is US$124.1
million, of which the Bank will finance US$61.5 million with US$62.6
million counterpart contributions (see Table III.2). The estimated capital
budget for MINVU during the next five years is about US$935 million;
therefore, expenditures for this component would represent about 132 of
capital expenditures. This contrasts with the previous five years when
expenditures in street maintenance and rehabilitation amounted to only 5.52
of capital expenditures. Capital expenditures for 1992, the year requiring
most resources, would be about 142 of the capital budget. (The proposed
expenditure represents less than 1% of the country's capital budget).
3.17     The impact of the project on MINVU's recurrent budget for
operations and maintenance would amount to approximately US$1.1 million
over the life of the project. This amounts to 0.9Z of the recurrent budget
and thus does not represent a substantial increase in the Ministry's
operating costs.
I. Procurement
3.18     Table III.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements. International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for all civil works contracts in
excess of US$3.5 million and the purchase of goods (with the exception of
computer hardware and software) costing over US$300,000. This includes
approximately 9X of the civil works procurement, and 50X of goods
purchases. All procurement for both civil works and goods will be open to
foreign bidders. Computer hardware and software (approximately US$300,000)
would be purchased using Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures
except for contracts less than US$5,000. Local shopping, with at least
three quotations, would be used for the purchase of computer hardware and
softwear with estimated costs less than U!S$5,000, up to a maximum aggregate
of US$50,000, and for other goods and civil works costing less than
US$50,000, but not exceeding an aggregate of US$1.1 million. Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) would be used for all other contracts for goods
and civil works. LCB procedures were reviewed and are satisfactory to the
Bank. All procurement for studies, technical assistance, and training
would be done in accordance with Bank guidelines and procedures. Exhibit 3
in Annex 2 provides an implementation schedule and costs for technical
assistance and studies. Annex 4 outlines the training program.
3.19     The relatively small amount of ICB is because most procurement
relates to small maintenance and rehabilitation works scattered throughout
the country and spread over a five-year period. Chilean experience with



- 17 -
Bank and IDB-financed investments of over US$400 million for street
rehabilitation works shows that the local contracting industry has ample
capacity to execute these works at costs below the international market;
hence, foreign firms have shown no interest in participating in ICB for
contracts of even greater value than anticipated under this project. Even
so, all bidding will be open to foreign bidders.
3.20     Prior Bank review and approval will be required for all
procurement documents and contracts for the first US$1 million of
procurement undertaken by MINVU, and the first US$500,000 of procurement
undertaken by SECTU and the Intendencias. Thereafter prior review would be
required for all civil works contracts over US$3.5 million and goods
purchases over US$300,000, i.e., for all ICB procurement. All other
procurement will be reviewed ex post on a sample basis. All procurement
for studies, technical assistance, and training will require prior Bank
review and approval (para 4.01 (g)).
Table III.3 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions) 1/
Category                       Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB       LCB       Other      Total
Civil Works                  12.0     121.7        1.0 2/  134.7
(5.61    (57.3)      (0.5)    (63.4)
Goods                         1.0        0.6       0.4 3/    2.0
(0.7)     (0.4)      (0.3)      (1.4)
Services                      -          -        12.8 4/   12.8
(10.2)    (10.2)
Land                          -          -         0.5 5/    0.5
(0.0)     (0.0)
Total                        13.0     122.3       14.7      150.0
(6.3)    (57.7)    (11.0)    (75.0)
1/  Including taxes and contingencies; amounts in parentheses show
allocations from loan proceeds.
2/  Local shopping.
3/  Includes US$0.3 million LIB for computer hardware and software and
US$0.1 million local shopping.
4/  Studies, technical assistance, training, design and supervision,
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5/  Estimated land acquisition procured in accordance with government
legislation.



- 18 -
J.   Disbursements
3.21     The loan would be disbursed over a five-and-one-half-year period
as follows:
(i) Studies, Technical Aqsistance, Training: 80o of total expenditures
for all subprojects.
(ii) Goods and Equipment: 70% of total expenditures for all
subprojects.
(iii)  Civil Works: 472 of total expenditures for Public Transport and
Traffic Management subprojects. For the MINVU subproject, the
percentage of funding for civil works will vary each calendar year
as follows: 1988/1989 - 70Z; 1990 - 602; 1991 - 502; 1992 - 44Z;
1993 - 352; 1994 - 30X.
Disbursement for eligible expenditures for contracts valued at under
US$500,000 would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation would be retained by MINVU and available for
review during supervision missions. Retroactive financing of all eligible
expenditures not exceeding US$7.5 million would be provided for
expenditures approved by the Bank and incurred between September 23, 1988
and signing of the loan agreement or within the twelve months preceding the
signing of the loan agreement, whichever period is shorter. Eligible
expenses include training, technical assistance, and studies, equipment
necessary to carry out the studies and implementation of pavement/
maintenance management systems, and civil works (para 4.01 (h)). A
projected disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 5.
K. Accounts and Audits
3.22     To reduce the interval between payments made by the beneficiaries
and receipt of reimbursements from the Bank, a Special Account would be
established in the Central Bank of Chile. The Special Account would be
denominated in US dollars and would be established with an initial deposit
of US$7.0 million, the peak four-month requirement. Project expenditures
would be monitored by CREDEX. CREDEX would request replenishment of the
Special Account on the basis of standard disbursement procedures
(para 4.01 (i)).
3.23     Maintenance accounts would be established in MINVU.  The purpose
of these accounts would be to monitor continued maintenance activity and
improve procedures for program development. The present budgetary and
accounting systems are adequate to verify the levels of expenditures for
street maintenance (para 4.01 (J)).
3.24     Independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, would provide to the
Bank audit reports for the special account, project expenditures, and
maintenance accounts within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
The audit reports would include opinions on the adequacy of the accounting
systems and internal controls, the reliability of statements of
expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with loan



- 19 -
covenants. Audits would be performed in conformance with getnerally
accepted auditing principles and practice under terms of reference agreed
at negotiations (para 4.01 (k)).
L. Economic Justification
3.25     Economic costs and benefits were quantified for the MINVU Street
Maintenance and Rehabilitation subproject and for the Traffic Management
subproject. Together, they account for 87Z of the total project base cost.
The net present value (NPV), benefit-cost ratio (B/C ratio), and the
internal economic rate of return (IERR) were calculated. The results are
summarized in Annex 8, Table 1. The overall IERR, is 272 and the B/C ratio
is 1.6. The economic viability remains acceptable (261) when the cost of
technical assistance is included without attributing quantified benefits to
'.he technical assistance; and the project remains economically viable in
the event of a 20% increase in costs or a 20Z decrease in benefite. The
project as a whole and each component are economica'.ly sound. The
methodology used in the evaluation is described in Annex 8.
M.  Distribution of Project Benefits
3.26     Duc to the sectoral nature of the project, it is not possible to
quantify the percentage of project benefits that will accrue directly to
the urban poor. It is possible, however, to conclude that the poor will
benefit in four specific ways:
(i) The major element of the project, the establishment of a
continuing street maintenance and rehabilitation program, will
increase the employment opportunities for unskilled labor.
(ii)  The paving of unpaved streets will not only reduce particulates
thus improving the quality of life but improve access to public
transport in many low-income areas.
(iii)  In the past decade, urban transport costs in Metropolitan Santiago
have increased some 200% in real termu and now command up to 30Z
of the household income of the urban poor (below the median income
level). The increased efficiency of public transport and traffic
management, in addition to the lower operating costs resulting
from the impro-ed street maintenance and rehabilitation system,
should be reflected in reduced public transport costs to the pcor.
(iv) The proposed pilot bikeway would traverse an area of eastern
Santiago where urban poor are concentrated and extend northward to
a commercial complex where many of them work. Thus, not only
would the risk of personal injury be reduced but an option to
heretofove costly public transport would be available. Moreover,
the bikeway is in harmorly with a government initiative to increase
bicycle use as a complement to other environmental an well as
transport efficiency measures.



- 20 -
N.  Air Quality Impact
3.27     Air pollution is a serious problem in Metropolitan Santiago and
the urban transport sector is a principal source of pollutants. With
funding from IDB and its own resources, the Government is studying the
extent and compositioni of the problem. Since March 1987, four stationary
monitors and one mobile monitor have been measuring the levels of air
contamination caused by the seven main pollutants in Metropolitan Satutiago.
Several studies are being conducted, including a review of bus maintenance
practices and the use of alternative fuels. The Government expects this
analysis and these studies, scheduled for completion next year, to provide
the basis for development of a future program to deal with air pollution
and other environmental issues. Preliminary analysis, however, indicates
transport-generated particulates to be the most serious air pollutant ir
the Greater Santiago area at this time. The primary sources are inadequate
street m3intenance programs, debris from unpaved streets, plus diesel bus
exhausts. The urban street mainteniance and street paving and improvement
components in the proposed project will reduce the amount of particulates
produced by the poorly maintained infrastructure system. The improved
interaction of the metro with buses, and the development of new high-speed
transport corridors should reduce the number of buses operating in the city
center. The pilot bus/tramway proposal will study, among other
alternatives, electrically-powered vehicles or articulated buses with more
environmentally efficient engines. Carbon monoxide (GO), nitrogen oxide
(NOx), and hydrocarbon (HC) emissions will also be reduced as a result of
the traffic system management (TSM) components. Generally, as traffic flow
is improved--e.g., by reducing the number of stops and speed changes--
vehicles will emit smaller amounts of pollutants. As an example,
calculations indicate that improvement at five locations in Greater
Santiago will result initially in reduction of approximately 486 tons of
CO, 49 tons of HC, and 20 tons of NOx per year or approximately 202 of
current levels at these locations. Other corridor improvements will have
similar results leading to improved air quality.
0. Impact on Employment
3.28     Approximately 4,600 person-years of additional direct employment
would be generated during the life of the project plus approximately 700
person-years of indirect employment. Some 5,100 person-years of this eotal
will be a permanent increase in employment extending beyond the life of the
Bank project itself, since it corresponds to the implementation of a
continuing maintenance and rehabilitation program.
P. Land Acquisition
3.29     Land acquisition is minimal irn this project inasmuch as
maintenance/rehabilitation activities would generally take place within
existing rights of way. A small, unoccupied parcel would be purchased for
construction of the proposed bikeway. It is possible that some property
acquisition would be necessary for construction of the segregated
bus/tramway. Ten corridors are being evaluated and the most appropriate
would be selected. A key criterion in the selection process is to minimize
land acquisition and relocation of families or businesses. Preliminary
estimates indicate a minimum of zero families and a maximum of 21 families



- 21 -
would be affected among the different corridors being proposed. Any
potential acquisition would be reviewed by the Bank once the study of
alternatives is complete. Land acquisition would be done in accordance
with policies, rules, and criteria acceptable to the Bank. Should
implementation of the Project require displacement or resettlement of
population, the Government shall ne'tify the Bank thereof, and upon the
Bank's request shall present a resettlement plan. satisfactory to the Bank,
prior to any displacement or resettlement (para 4.01 (1)).
Q.  Project Risks
3.30     The primary risks to successful implementation of the project and
achievement of objectives are institutional in nature. Issues of
counterpart funding and technical/management capacity appear negligible.
The project has been designed and scheduled to maintain counterpart
requirements within the amounts that have been normally budgeted by the
participating agencies in each of the past two fiscal years; also, the
Ministry of Finance is in agreement with goals and funding requirements.
The level of technical and managerial ability in Chile is generally high
and management in the implementing agencies is strong. This project,
however, represents only thte first step toward a truly integrated urban
transport management system; consequently, lack of institutional
cooperation could cause delays. During project preparation, guidelines for
organizational cooperation and interaction were developed and all agencies
have now worked well together. An interministerial committee has been
established within the Urban Transport Commission to review and resolve
issues pertaining to project selection and development as well as other
matters that affect project implementation. Past institutional weai:nesses
within tfINVU (with regard to streets) have been addressed by reorganization
and transfer of qualified personnel into appropriate roles. Technical
assistance would be provided to the new director of the Urban Streets
Subdepartment to organlTe and initiate the street planning, construction,
and maintenance program. Training would be provided to strengthen the
managerial and technical ability of ministry personnel.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENWATIONS
4.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) The Borrower will carry out all studies including policy and
organizational analysis as per the schedule shown in
Annex 2 and as per terms of reference agreed at appraisal
and confirmed at negotiations (paras 2.14, 2.20, 3.04).
(b) The Borrower agtees to maintain full, cost recovery in the National
Transport Sector and will advise the Bank of any changes of policy
andjor actions which would adversely affect such cost recovery and
afford the Bank an opportunity to review and comment on such
changes. Upon the Bank's request the Borrower shall provide the
Bank with information, satisfactory to the Bank, indicating the
level of cost recovery in the Sector (para 2.14).



- 22 -
(c) The Borrower will advise the Bank of any urban transport
investment exceeding US$10 million in the project area during the
project implementation period, provide information on the impact
of such investments on the Bank project, and give the Bank
adequate opportunity to comment on such investment prior to its
commencement. Execution of any major investment that would
adversely affect the Bank project or undermine its strategy
would constitute grounds for suspension of disbursements for
the project or parts thereof (para 2.18).
(d) Pavement/Maintenance Management Systems will be implemented in
each of the country's thirteen regions within one year of the date
of loan effectiveness vpara 3.08).
(e)  The Borrower will allocate suffi^ient funds to carry out an
adequate urban streets maintenance program in areas for which it
is responsible, and prepare and furnish to the Bank for review its
annual maintenance program and urban street improvement program
(including rehabilitation) at least 60 days prior to the
applicabio fiscal year. The annual maintenance program would be
increased each year to reach a minimum of US$13.5 million in the
fourth year of the project and US$14.0 million in the fifth year
(paras 3.08, 3.14).
(f)  Monitoring and evaluation of project components w'll be dune using
key indicators acceptable to the Bank (para 3.11).
(g) Prior Bank review and approval will be required for all
procurement documents and contracts for the first US$1 million of
procurement undertaken by MINVU, and the first US$500,000 of
procurement undertaken by SECTU and the Intendencias. Thereafter,
prior review will be required for all civil works procurement over
US$3.5 million and goods purchases over US$300,000. All other
procurement will be reviewed ex-post en a sample basis. All
procurement for studies, technical assistance, and training will
require prior Bank review and approval (para 3.20).
(h) Retroactive financing not exceeding a total amount of US$7.5
million would be provided for expenditures incurred between
September 23, 1988 and signing of the Loan Agreement, or within
the 12 months preceding signing of the Loan Agreement, whichever
period is shorter. Eligible expenses include training, technical
assistance, and studies, equipment necessary to carry out the
studias and implementation of pavement/maintenance management
systems, and civil works (para 3.21).
(i)  The Borrower will establish and operate a Special Account in
accordance with Bank guidelines and in a manner satisfa:tory
to the Bank (para 3.22).
(j) Separate maintenance accounts will be established in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.23).



- 23 -
(k) The Borrower agrees to independent auditing arrangements
,satisfactory to the Bank. Terms of reference for such audits will
be satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.24).
(1) All acquisition of land as a result of project components will be
done in accordance with policies, rules, and criteria acceptable
to the Bank. Should implementation of the Project require
displacement or resettlement of population, the Borrower shall
notify the Bank thereof, and upon the Bank's request shall present
a resettlement plan, satisfactory to the Bank, prior to any such
displacement or resettlement (para 3.29).
4.02     Subject to the above conditions and assurances the project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$75.0 millirn to the Republic of Chile to
be repaid over a period of 17 years. includ.'ng five years grace.



- 24-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Project Objectives
1.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) strengthen
institutional capabilities to plan, manage, and maintain the urban
transport systems in the country in a cost-effective manner; (b) preserve
the national investment in urban street infrastructure; (c) facilitate the
integration of urban transport modes, reduce congestion, and contribute to
a reduction in air pollution; and (d) demonstrate the efficiency of
alternative public transport modes.
Project Description
2.       The project would be divided into three subprojects, with the
following components:
A.        MINVU STREET HAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION SUBPROJECT
i.       Pavement/Maintenance Management System.  Development of a
Pavement/Maintenance Management System in each of the country's 13 regions
to facilitate planning, evaluation, and implementation of cost-effective
maintenance and rehabilitation programs throughout the country.
ii.      Five-Year Investment Program.  Within the framework of the
Pavement/Maintenance Management system, each region will prepare five-year
routine and periodic maintenance and rehabilitation programs. These
programs will be updated annually.
iii.     Annual Maintenance Programs.  The implementation of the
maintenance programs will:
(a)   define the routine and periodic maintenance activities to be
carried out and prepare necessary engineering and contract
documents for the annual program; and
(b)   provide for the contracting. supervision, quality control and
monitoring of maintenance works included in the annual programs.
iv.       Rehabilitation/Improvement Program.  This program will consist of
rehabilition activities, minor street improvements, and paving of unpaved
streets, to include!
(a)   identification and evaluation of candidate works and development
of preliminary designs for streets selected for improvement or
rehabilitation;



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
(b)   preparation of engineering and contract documents for the
rehabilitation of streets selected for the annual programs;
(c)   contracting, supervision, quality control, and monitoring of the
rehabilitation works included in the annual programs;
(d)    identification and evaluation of candidate unpaved streets and
selection of those to be paved in the annual program;
(e)   preparation of contract documents, contracting, and supervision,
of the paving of unpaved streets in the annLal programs.
v.        Technical Assistance and Training.  Institutional strengthening
of MINVU's central and regional offices to obtain increased efficiency in
the application of the Pavement/Maintenance Management Svstem and the
execution of the five-year maintenance and street improvement programs.
This would include technical assistance, procurement of ancillary
equipment, and provision of training in planning and works' engineering and
supervision.
B.        PUBLIC TRANSPORT SUBPROJECT
i.        Public Transport Alternatives Study.  Public transport
alternatives to further expansion of the Metro will be explored.
Technical, economic, and financial studies of exclusive bus/tramways will
be carried out on ten candidate corridors. This will be done by
consultants under the direction of SECTU and a pilot scheme selected from
among the candidates for implementation.
ii.       Public Transport Alternatives Construction.  Final design and
construction of the public transport alternative selected in the
Alternatives Study will take place. The executing agency will be the
Intendencia of Greater Santiago with assistance from SECTU.
iii.      Technical Assistance and Training.  This component provides
technical assistance and training in the planning and evaluation of public
transport alternatives, the planning and operation of multimodal public
transport systems, and the design and operation of exclusive bus/tramways.
C.       TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SUBPROJECT
i.        Traffic Management Studies will include:
(a)   An urban transport study in Greater Santiago would gather the
necessary data, including an origin/destination survey, and would
identify a national urban transport strategy for optimizing



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
efficiency in the provision and maintenance of urban transport
services and infrastructure, focusing particularly on
organization and administration of the sector, reduced congestion
and improved levels of service, public transport, social needs
and public affordability, and cost recovery.
(b)   Identification and evaluation of traffic management actions which
would effectively reduce congestion and pollution in Greater
Santiago, Concepcion, and Valparaiso. These studies would be
carried out under the direction of SECTU.
(c)   Implementation of the traffic management programs, includ.ng bus
priority lanes, identified in the SECTU studies. This will be
carried out by the respective Intendencias with technical
assistance from SECTU.
ii.       Bikeway Study and Design.  This component will consist of:
(a)   Feasibility analysis of a pilot bikeway in Greater Santiago.
This will be carried out under the direction of SECTU.
(b)   Final design and implementation of the scheme selected.  This
will be implemented by MINVU.
iii.      Monitoring Studies.  In addition to normal monitoring and
evaluation carried out during implementation of project components, SECTU
will develop intensive monitoring programs for the pilot bikeway and public
transport alternative components to mneasure technical, economic, and
financial effectiveness and performance of these pilot programs.
iv.       Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance and training would be
provided to the Intendencias and SECTU. Consultants would be hired to work
with engineering and planning staff in the Intendencias to develop and
implement viable, on-going traffic management programs; SECTU staff would
participate in field visits to other countries to study exemplary urban
transport planning and operations.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 11
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Organization and Implementation
Project Coordination
1.       The Borrower will be the Government of Chile represented by the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MINVU). MINVU will act through
its Office for Coordination of Foreign Credits (CREDEX). CREDEX will be
responsible for the administration of the loan, including disbursement
applications, transfer of funds between the Bank and the Borrower.
preparation and remittance of financial and project progress reports to the
Bank, and the contracting of extermal auditors. CREDEX is adequately
staffed to administer the proposed project and to undertake other
anticipated responsibilities.   Project Organization is graphically shown
in Exhibit 1.
Project Implementation
2.       Project components would be implemented through existing line
agencies, strengthened as necessary with technical assistance and training.
Executing agencies for the different components of the project would be:
(a)   MINVU for the urban streets maintenance program, street
rehabilitation/improvement program, and for the implementation of
the bikeways;
(b)   The Urban Transport Commission (Comision de Transporte Urbano,
CTU), through its Secretariat (SECTU), for the execution of the
economic and technical feasibility studies of street
rehabilitation programs in the primary urban street system and of
the pilot bus/tramway and bikeway, as well as the engineering
and monitoring of these last two components. It will also assist
the Intendencias in the contracting and execution of the traffic
management studies and the pilot bus/tramway. SECTU will provide
technical coordination to all agencies involved in the project.
(c)   The Ministry of the Interior, through the corresponding Regional
Governments (Intendencias), for the construction of the pilot
bus/tramway and for the execution of the traffic management
studies and improvements in the Santiago, Valparaiso and
Concepci6n Urban Areas. SECTU will represent the Intendencias
and coordinate these components among the Bank, Borrower, CREDEX,
and the intendencias/municipalities.
MINVU
3.        MINVU is responsible for construction and main*enance of all
streets in urban areas with the notable exception of the Municipality of
Santiago and national highways that pass through urban areas. The former



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 11
are the responsibility of the Municipality and the latter the Ministry of
Public Works. Although responsible for urban streets, the focus of MINVU's
efforts in the past has been on housing and general urban problems. The
proposed project will assist MINVU in improving its institutional capacity
to carry out its responsibility for urban street maintenance, improvements,
and rehabilitation.
4.        MINVU's organization is headed by a minister who is assisted by a
deputy minister and a special group of experienced advisors. At the
central level in Santiago, MINVU operates through five departments: urban
development, investment policy, technical studies and research, finance,
and legal matters. Seven additional support units deal with organization
and methods, personnel, general services, social services, public
relations, auditing and foreign credits. In each of the 13 regions, MINVU
is represented by a planning office (Secretaria Regional Ministerial,
SEREHI) and by operating authorities in charge of execution (Servicio de
Vivienda y Urbanismo, SERVIU). The internal organization of each SEREMI
and each SERVIU varies according to regional requirements, MINVU's total
staff is 3,088, of which 70% work in the SERVIUs and IlZ in the SEREHIs.
There is, in general, an adequate balance between managerial, professional
and support staff; however, the present organization does not sufficiently
emphasize street maintenance and rehabilitation. Organized functionally,
there has been no distinction between housing and streets; moreover,
architects/planners often were in positions better suited for engineers or
engineering technicians and vice-versa.
5.        As part of the proposed project, separate units will be created
for housing (vivienda) and streets (vialidads) and qualified staff assigned
to each. Within the three technical departments (urban development,
investment policy, technical studies and research), a subdepartment for
urban streets will be created--of equal status with housing--to oversee and
coordinate the planning, design, construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of urban streets in the regions. Within each region, urban
street units (UVU) would be created in SEREMI and SERVIU to manage the
urban street program. The program would be centrally coordinated by a
National Urban Streets Secretariat and by Regional Urban Streets
Secretariats. The sub-departments at the central level would revise the
existing street designs and materials specification standard and manuals
(including manuals on street condition surveys and maintenance techniques)
and undertakz proaramming at the national level. The UVUs in the SERVIUs
would carry out the street inventory and condition surveys; evaluate the
pavement condition to assign the corresponding maintenance operations;
carry out traffic surveys; and submit the information needed for the
planning process to the SEREMIs. Once the programs are approved, the
SERVIUs would contract and supervise execution of the authorized
maintenance and improvement works. The UVUs in the SEREMIs would undertake
the maintenance planning at the regional level and submit it for approval
to the central level.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 11
6.        HINVU personnel are now being transferred to staff the urban
street subdepartments and UVUs with appropriate engineers, planners,
economists, and techricians so the new organization can carry out the
proposed program. Staff reassignment is necessary to achieve the proper
technical focus for urban streets. Technical assistance will be provided to
MINVU at the subdepartmental level to help the new director organize and
implement the program. Staff will be trained as described in Annex 4. The
revised organization is shown in Exhibit 2.
7T        The urban streets program at MINVU's central level. as indicated
in the preceding paragraph, is primarily a function of the following three
technical departments:
(a)   The Urban Development Department (DDU), which deals with the
broad issues of street development as a function of urban
planning and development;
(b)   The Technical Studies and Research Department (DITEC), which sets
the pavement design specifications and general norms for pavement
execution and maintenance and maintains MINVU's management
information system; and
(c)   The Investment Policy Department (DPH), which is responsible for
general planning, programming, and coordinating of urban street
upgrading, rehabilitation, aad maintenance activities. Specific
projects are identified, evaluated, and selected by the SEREHIs
in collaboration with the local municipalities and then submitted
to DPH for approval. Upgrading and rehabilitation projects
related to the primary urban network are subject to additional
review by CTU. All approved projects are passed on to the
National Planning Agency (Oficina de Planificacion Nacional:
ODEPLAN), which monitors the level of investments in the
different sectors and determines the priority of each project
within a national program comprising all sectors. DPH is
responsible for preparing MINVU's annual investment program and
for allocating the funds for street upgrading, rehabilitation,
and maintenance among the different regions. This allocation is
theoretically based on an assessment of the investment required
to maintain the existing pavements, the regional distribution of
streets in the country, and the regional distribution of
motorized vehicles. In actuality, however, allocations have been
very subjective. Introduction of the pavement/maintenance
management system through the project will provide an economic,
technical, and financial basis for these decisions.
8.        In addition, the Organization and Methods Unit assesses the
effectiveness of the existing organization and procedures, recommends
improvements or modifications, and determines training needs. Training
Itself is organized and coordinated by the Technical Standards and
Application Unit (UNAT) within the Personnel Department.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 11
9.        At the regional level, responsibilities for urban streets
activities are divided between SEREMIs and SEPVIUs:
(a)   The SEREMIs are responsible for identifying and evaluating the
street rehabilitation and maintenance programs, in collaboration
with the Intendencias and the municipalities, and prioritizing
these in annual plans which are then submitted to DPH. The
SEREMIs also discuss with the municipalities their eventual
contribution to the financing of the annual plans. The
evaluation, selection, and prioritizing of street activities
would be improved under the proposed proj3ct through the creation
of separate urban street units in the SEREMIs and the
introduction of the pavement/maintenance management system in
each region. Personnel are being assigned with experience in
urban street planning and development and training would be
provided in project evaluation and program development.
(b)   Once the annual street programs have been approved, they are sent
by DPH to the SERVIUs for implementation through contracting to
the private sector. The SERVIUs are expressly excluded by law
from any planning function and are responsible only for
contracting and supervisin- engineering studies and execution of
works. In general, reporting of work activity performed, its
location, resources used, and time schedules for execution of
specific quantities of work is reasonably adequate. The
supervision of actual work execution and quality, however, is
weak. Planning, supervision, and monitoring of maintenance and
construction activities would be strengthened under the proposed
project. Units are being established in the SERVIUs devoted
exclusively to street works. More enetneers are being placed in
positions of responsibility and training would be provided to
improve contract supervision and inspection.
10.       Planning of maintenance operations is hampered by lack of an
adequate, updated street inventory; in fact the cadaster of streets has not
been updated since 1978. Although major maintenance activities are
identified, defined service levels are nonexistent and the annual programs
are stopgap measures. In conjunction with the pavement/maintenance
management system project component, the cadaster of urban streets will be
gradually updated as a part of preparing each annual program.
CTU and SECTU
11.       In 1982, the President of the Republic mandated the formation of
the Urban Transport Commission (CTU) to coordinate the efforts of the
public and private entities involved in the provision of urban transport,
and to improve evaluation, selection, and priority setting of urban



_ 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11
transport investments.  CTU includes as its members the ministers of
Transport (president), Housing and Urbanism, Finance, Public Works, and
Economy; the directors of the National Planning Office and of Order and
Security of the Police; the governor of the Santiago Metropolitan Region;
and the mayor of the Municipality of Santiago. This commission is advised
by a technically-oriented executive secret&riat (SECTU) composed of urban
transport planners, engineers, and economists (ten professiona's) plus
support staff. The functions of SECTU are defined as (a) advice and
technical support to CTU and the sector entities; (b) preparation of
studies, methodologies and standards, and plans; (c) coordination of
activities and technical functions carried out by the sector institutions;
and (d) evaluation of public-sector investment in urban transport. In
addition, SECTU has become the operative unit for traffic control in the
Metropolitan Region and in that capacity provides traffic engineering
support to several municipalities. SECTU functions through the offices of
ODEPLAN and receives its funding from the various ministeries listed above.
Its studies are often financed by the National Regional Development Fund.
SECTU staff are paid by the Ministry of Transport and ODEPLAN.
12.       Unfortunately, this mechanism of an executive secretariat has not
worked as well as planned. Although staffed with highly qualified
professionals, SECTU did not have the full cooperation of the ministries
involved, and the highest levels of government did not insist on all urban
transport investment and policy decisions being reviewed by SECTU and,
subsequently, CTU. Meetings of CTU were not held on a regular basis, and
some very important elements of the urban transport system were not subject
to coordination or review. A major benefit of this project has been the
reaffirmation by the Government of the role of CTU/SECTU in evaluation and
coordination of all urban transport investments. During project
preparatio,i, SECTU has been providing technical assistance to the various
sector institutions.  The result has been improved working relationships as
well as official recognition of the role of SECTU. The ministers have all
agreed to strict adherence to the Presidential Mandate of 1982, and the
ministers of Finance and Planning will insist on evaluation by SECTU and
subsequent review by CTU of all urban transport investment and policies
prior to consideration for inclusion in the national program. SECTU is
establishing field offices in the Concepci6n and Valparaiso metropolitan
regions to assist with urban transport planning and traffic systems
management, and will expand its technical assistance in the Santiago
metropolitan region.
13.       The proposed project would reinforce the role of CTU/SECTU, a
process that was successfully begun during project preparation. SECTU is
responsible for providing technical assistance to all agencies involved and
must review all annual capital investment programs. SECTU would carry out
traffic management studies in the three major metropolitan regions and
assist the Intendencias in program implementation and establishment of
traffic management units. Segregated bus/tramways on several candidate
corridors would be evaluated by SECTU as an alternative to expansion of the



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 11
existing metro system. This is being done in conjunction with, and with the
full support of, the metro operating entity. The significance of this
becomes clear when it is remembered that SECTU has been excluded from all
public transport policy decisions up to now. During the first two years of
the project, SECTU would carry out several surveys to develop an essential
urban transport data base and make recommendations for sector policy,
organization, and operation with particular attention to public transport
issues. While maintaining the autonomy of the public and private entities
involved in the delivery of urban transport services, this project would
serve as a catalyst to strengthen the role of CTU and its executive
secretariat as the focal point for planning, evaluating, and coordinating
urban transport programs.
Technical Assistance
14.       To assist in the preparation of its street maintenance program,
HINVU contracted (with Bank concurrence) technical assistance financed
under the ongoing Housing Sector Project, Loan 2482-CH. The selected local
consultants started their activities in mid-April 1988 in the three
designated pilot cities (Iquique in the southern zone, Curico in the
central zone, and Temuco in the northern zone) to prepare prototype street
maintenance and rehabilitation programs for these cities. The study in
each of the cities included a detailed description and inventory of the
primary street network and relevant urban features, a diagnosis of
problems, an evaluation of alternative solutions, and the preparation of a
five-year investment program. Findings on the content, design, and cost of
the urban street investment programs in these cities were calibrated with
data obtained independently by the consultants in La Serena in the north-
central zone, and in Coyhanque and Punta Arenas in the extreme south. The
findings were then extrapolated to estimate the size and cost of a
nationwide urban street investment program. SECTU provided technical
assistance to MINVU in the establishment of economic and technical criteria
and in the evaluation of the maintenance and street improvement programs.
It also provided economic evaluation for the other components in the
project.
15.       With the assistance of contracted consultants, SECTU carried out
feasibility studies for the metro terminals; the bikeway; traffic
management improvements in the three metropolitan areas including possible
exclusive bus lanes; the pilot-segregated bus/tramway; terms of reference
for the proposed studies; and developed technical assistance and training
programs for the three Intendencias of Greater Santiago, Concepcion, and
Valparaiso.
16.       Additional technical assistance will be used during project
implementation to help develop and implement the pavement/maintenance
management system in each region, prepare annual work programs, develop
studies, perform project design, and in some cases, provide supervision. A



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 11
qualified urban streets maintenance consultant would be hired by HINVU to
assist the director of the newly created Urban Streets Subdepartment in DPH
to establish the program and oversee implementation of the pavement/
maintenance management system in the regions. Technical assistance would
be provided to the training unit in HINVU (UNAT) during the first six
months of the project to assist with development of the training program
and mitigate the effects of the initial peak workload. A trairning
consultant also would assist MINVU to perform an annual evaluation of the
training program and suggest changes as necessary. Technical assistance
would be provided to the Intendencias to help them establish and implement
a traffic management program. Exhibit 3 of this annex outlines the
technical assistance activities. External resources would be needed to
provide training to HINVU, SECTU, and the staff of the Intendencias hnd
municipalities. This training program is delineated in detail in Annex 4.
Implementation Schedule
17.       The project is scheduled for implementation over five years.
Exhibit 4 illustrates the anticipated schedule for each component.



ANNEX 2                                   34 -
Page 8 of 11
Exhibit 1                               co=
URBAN STREUTS AAD TRNSPORT PROJECT
Project Orgaizatious
NORROURM
GOYERNNT OF
AUIISTRATIVE COORD.                                      TECHNICAL COORDINION
Hi                                                         SCO
-                                                          I'
N.tioal ,Roa                                                      Traffic
&                                           N~~~~~~~~~~~-anagemeat
Nalltemance                                                    and Public
Rebabilitat.                                                    Transport
-.
szaaa.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~latendencias
slamUs



_                                     I
-                                     ____        1 4 1 1 ---'- -
04
S                '         jIj-----
[H FolS



77 4    2                               7-
- -  - -  -  -  -    - -  -  - -  -  -  -                                     * -   -           3t
n 1  *n          ;a-       . - . -s- - - -                              a -I- 
------- -          - -  - - . -%-. -
8                     8~ 8~ S                                                8       
---   -  -                              L--                                                  ----
i.                                                             0 a
- - - _-   --                       - _                              -  -  -  -  -  - -  - _       -  - -
;e ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    a.       -                              %0       I    3X8o 1   3 S11           
8  8   ~   ~ ~ ~ ~(0              8          888 888                °o8      0     803  
_~~~~~~~I _0_______0_______                                                                       _
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-*- ~ S



IC-
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- l *     - -  -  -  -   S -   n. v a   e  S -  -
-   0   -'  -  -S  -     * -  -   -  - -  -  i8
-   -    _ _ _ _ _ _ __-  -_ _ -   -   -  __
-- - --        ----T-- --IT- - -
lt~~u    --- 0          tt*0 
t~~~~ tT    F T               T1  
I-            I             F
______I{__I____    __     _. 
-------------------   ::- -    --r.
U           
___ __ __ __ __ __  __  __    _  _ 



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
CHILE
URBAN STREET AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Costs
(US$ million)
X        2 of
Subproject and Component               Local    Foreign    Total  Foreign  Base Cost
A.    MINVU Street Maintenance
and Rehabilitation
1. System Development           1,890.0      810      2,700.0      30       2.2
including Technical
Assistance and Training
2. Maintenance and
Rehabilitation              49,089.7   50,043.9   99,133.6      50      79.6
3. Equipment                       90.0      210.0      300.0      70       0.2
Subtotal                   51,069.7   51,063.9  102,133.6       50      82.0
B.    Public Transport
1. Segregated-Bus/Tram Ways    4,223.1    4,575.1    8,798.2       52       7.1
2. Technical Assistance and    1,438.8       959.2    2,398.0      40       1.9
Training
Subtotal                    5,661.9    5,534.3   11,196.2       49       9.0
C.    Traffic Management
1. Traffic Management           4,316.6    4,676.36   8,992.9      52       7.2
2. Pilot Bike Ways                909.0      823.0    1,732.0      48       1.4
3. Technical Assistance and       371.0      129.0      500.0      26       0.4
Training
Subtotal                    5,596.6    5,628.4   11,224.9       50       9.0
Total Base Costb           62,328.2   62.226.5  124,554.7       50     100.0
Physical Contingencies       5,893.8    5,971.9   11,865.7      50       9.5
Price Contingencies          6,778.0    6,801.6   13,579.6      50      10.9
TOTAL               75,000.0   75,000.0  150,000.0      50      120.4
Octoabe  7,_s 1988:a=M
October 7, 1988



CHLE
MINU RtUD  EABLIUTATIN AI JUD fADWE               - LOAL AND FORUN COSTS
Year                      IM     199M    199      0 130    131   1991   1992   1992   1993   1993    1994   TUTU. 1fI61 LOA    I
Semstr (from start)          2     3       4      5      6       7      8      9      10     11      12 1        I
InfIat)on (Annual I)         3     3      3       3      4      4       4      4      4       4        1         1
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
I   If L IS f I                                                                                     I
11. Nhlatntua   Wd RhilltatIo                                                                   a                        1
Design           11.1 120t0t1212 1 2i6.M   24.3   WJ*.   247.9  395,9  395.9  p61.0  461.0  402.7  402.?   329.3 2   4038.1 1 807.6 30. I
iExpropriation  11.2 1 OtI00510 Os  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0 *1   0.0 I   0.0    0.0 .1
Clvil Works      11. 122 40:12 12 5679.0 5679.0 7675.2 7675.2 9178.6  9178.6 1077.3 10737.3 10365.3 10365.3  71S8.0  94426.6 39103.0 432S.A:
1 Supervision       11.4 120S   12 12 1 41.1  41.1   SB.1   58.1   65.8   6.8   77.0   77.0   67.0   67.0         .7 1  6il. 1 133.3  53.4 1
Subtotal        11.5 I      I     5967.0 57.0 301.2 8011.2 9660.3 9M4.311215.311235.31018.010635.0  753.019933.6:603.9 49009.71
Phys. Cont.    :1.6          1       95.7 596.?  601.1  800.1  964.0  964.0 1127.5 1127.5  1063.5 10.5   753.6   9913.4  5004.4 4909.01
Price Cont.    I1.7 1          49.2  146.4  237.4  475.6  791.0 1016.9 1463.6 1740.9 194.6 2M.0  1742.2   11936.21
TOTAL          .1.8 I      :    16612.9 6712.1  9226.7 9366.1 11395.3 11623.2 13966.4 14143.3 13063.3 14140.5  10031.9 .20961.1 1        :
I   I            I                                               
12. tdinlcal Aagstauwrslelng                                                                     I        :
TerN. At.    t2.1 :206 8N:2 3 1 675.0 675.0  675.0  675.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0 1 2700.0 I S40.0 2160.0 1
Equipment        t2.2 :70S 30512 3: 1S0.0  150.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0 :  300.0 1 210.0   90.0 1
Subtotal       12.4 1            2 6 025.0 925.0  675.0  615.0    0.0    4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0 1 3000.0 1 7S0.0 2250.0:
Phy*. Cont-    2. 1          1       0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0       0.0
Price Cent.    12.6 1        1    1  6.2  16.7   25.6   26.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0 1                        1.6
MTTAL         :2.7         1    1931.2  943.7  700.6  71.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0   305.61                 1
13. TOT    I    I                                                                                1                        I
Bas Cost       23.1  50 506:    :6S92.0 67!12.0 M196.2  156.2  9640.3 960.3 112.3 11275.3 10635.0 10035.0  7152.0 :102133.6 :5-3.9 51339.? 
Phys. Cont.  '3.2 501 5051       I 596.7 6.7  B0.1  108.1  964.0  964.0  1127.5 1127.5 1083.5 1083.5   753.6   9913.4 15004.4 4909.0 1
Price Coot.   13.3 :50 50:    I 5.4 167.1  363.0  511.9  791.0  1019.9 1463.6 1740.9 1934.8 2222.0  1742.2 112120.8 t 6066.9 S.0 I
TOTAL_.2.4  1SR   117444.1 16.6 992T.3 10016.2 113.3 11623.2 1366.4 14143.8 13863.3 1140.5  10031.8 :12406?.? :61846.1 62222.6 I
0    X4
Wo wA



CHILE COSTS
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT - LOCAL AND FOREIGN                                                       g.. 
iSomster (from strtl                     1 ii  2      3      4      S      6      7    8      9    10   11            I              I   .o* 
lIntlation (Annuall)I         I      I   8     3      a      a      3      4      4     4     4    4    4 1          i                     l 
I - ----------------------~~-------- --                             ----------                 ---------- --
lPercent Sestl It
IFgn Lcl 1St Fini                                                                                              I
---------    --    ---------------     ------------------- -------                                       ---~1
11. Tratfic Manage,ntI        I      I                                                                      I         I
11.1 Design            20X 80s1     6 I 0.0 168.6  158.8  I63.6  158.8   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0 I 614.2 I 122.8  491.4
11.2 Expropriation   I OXlOOX  E) 0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0 I   0.0     0.0    0.0
11.3 Civil Works     I 52X 481X  3 7 I 0.0   0.0  771.  8n71.8 8n71.8 1 71. 1371.8   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 1 5259.1 12734.7 2524.4 7
1.4 Supervision      I 201X Box      7 I 0.0   0.0  68.7  68.7  68.7  88.7  83.7   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 1 818.7 I 68.7 255.0 
11.6 Equipment                                    600.0  600.0  600.0                                         1600.0  1120.0 480.0
11.8 Sub Total       I        I     I 0.0 163.8 1589.1 1689.1 1589.1 1486.5 1486.6  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 1 7792.0 18765.8 403A.7 I
1.7 Physical Cont                   I0.0  15.4  158.9  158.9  108.9  111.8  111.8   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0    779.2 14041.2 8750.8
11.8 Price Cont               I        0.0   1.8  89.5  68.8  98.8  117.8  151.7  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0    470.2   3 875.8  408.9
1.9 Total           1        1      10.0 170.2 1787.5 1814.4 1841.8 1696.9 1780.8   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   9041.4 1
12. Bus Priority               2   I  0       .       .    0
12.1 Design          I 20fX1   2 3 I 0.0  48.6   48.5   *.0   0.0   *.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   001   97.0 19.4  77.8
12.2 Expropriation     OXOOXI 0 0 1 0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I   0.0 I  0.0    0.0                     I
12.3 Civil Works       625 4811 4 6   0.0   0.0    0.0  541.2 641.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 1082.4 I 662.8  519.6 I4
2.4 Supervision     I 20X Box1  4  6   0.0   0.0    0.0  10.8  10.8   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0         21.6 8    4.8   17.3 I        0
12.5 Sub Total       I        I      I 0.0  48.5  48.6  652.0  662.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 1201.0   5 6.8  814.4 I
12.6 Physical Cont   I               I 0.0   4.9   4.9   55.2  65.2   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 1 120.1 I
12.7 Price Cont      I        I        0.0   0.4    1.2  28.0  82.5   0.0    0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0 I  57.1
12.8 Total                    I        0.0  65.8   64.8  680.2 689.7   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   1878.2
1a. Pilot Bike Way   I        I      I                                                                      I                        I
13.1 Design          I 201X 0ox  1 2 1 50.0  50.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0 I 100.0 j 20.0   80.0
18.2 Expropriation   I O10011 2  8 I 0.0  84.0   84.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 1  68.0     0.0   68.0o
13.8 Civil Works     I 52% 4811 8 5 I 0.0   0.0  510.7  610.7 510.7    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 1632.0 I 796.6  785.4
18.4 Supervision     I 20% 8011 8 5 I 0.0   0.0   10.7   10.7  10.7   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  PO, 0.0 I   2.0    8.4   25.8
18.5 Sub Total       I        I     I 60.0  84.0  566.3  621.3  621.3   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 1782.0 I 823.0  909.0 I
a.6 Physical Cont   I         I      I 6.0  8.4   66.5   52.1  52.1   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 173.2                       1
13.7 Price Cont      I        I      I 0.0  0.7   13.8   21.8  30.7   0.0    0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0           8 67.0 |
13.8 Total           I        I      I 65.0  93.1  624.7  595.2 604.2   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 1972.2 I
14. Tech Asst/Train'gl        I      I                                                                                               i
14.1 Technical Asot  I 202 8011 2 11 I 0.0  44.2   44.2   44.2  44.2  44.2   44.2  44.2  44.2  44.2  44.2 I 442.0 I 88.4  363.6
14.2 Hardwcre I      I 701 30Oj 2 3 1 0.0  12.2   12.2   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I  24.4 I 17.1    7.8
4.3 Hardware II     I 70X 30O1 4 11 I 0.0   0.0   0.0   4.2   4.2   4.2    4.2   4.2   4.2  4.2  4.2            3 a3.6 I 23.6   10.1 I
14.4 Sub Total       l        I      I 0.0  56.4   6S.4   48.4  48.4  48.4   48.4  48.4  48.4 48.4  48.4 I 500.0 1 129.0  371.0 I
14.6 Physical Cont   I        I      I 0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0           0.0O
14.8 Prico Cont      I        I      I 0.0   0.4    1.3   1.8   2.6   3.8   4.7   6.7  6.8   7.9   9.0 l  43.8 1
14.7 Total           1        I      I 0.0  58.8  57.7   50.2  51.0  52.0  63.1  64.1  56.2  56.3  67.4 I 643.8
16. TOTALS           I       I      I                                                                       I        I
15.1 Base Cost       I 63% 47XI      I 50.0 342.5 2249.3 2710.8 2710.8 1484.0 1484.0  48.4  48.4  48.4  48.4 111226.0 15579.8 5846.2 |
15.2 Physical Cont   I 62% 48X1      I 5.0  28.6  219.3  268.2  288.2  143.6  143.6   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 I 1072.6 I 518.3  666.2
16.3 Price Cont      I S2X 48XI      I 0.0   2.8   56.8  113.0  159.3  121.4  166.4   6.7  8.8   7.9  9.0 I 838.1 I 304.8  33.3 
15.4 TOTAL           I 63X 47X3     I 56.0 373.8 2524.5 3090.1 3138.4 1748.9 1783.9  54.1  55.2  56.3  57.4 112935.8 16401.0 6534.7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



CHILE COSTS
PUBUC TRANSPORT SUBPROJECT - LOCAL AND FOREIGN
Year                        I        1988 1989  1989  1990  1990  1991  1991 19M  1992  1998 1998   TOTAL  IFOREIGN LOCAL
ISeMester (from strt  t                 1    2      a      4      5     6      7    8    9   10   11 
Inflation (Annual #)        I     1   8    8       8      8      8      4     4    4    4    4    41            |              |
jP;rcent Isemest                               _                                    I        I
I Fn Let JSt Fin 
1i. Metro evs Connections   I      I
11.1 Design         1 2QX 80X 0 0 1 0.0  0.0   0
112 Expropfistlon   | 0X10°%  0 0 I 0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.. I  0.0
l1.8 Civil Works     62% OI 0 0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 I   0.0 I  0.0   0.0
11.4 Sup.rvlsion     20X 805 0 0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 I   0.0 I  0.0   0.0
11.4 Sub Tota l             I      I 0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0              0.0 1  0.0   0.0
11.6 Physitcl Cont   I             I 0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0              0.0 I  0.0   0.0 1
11.7 Price Cont     I       I         0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0             0.0 °    1
1.6 Total                   I        0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 1   0.0 1
12. Soo Bum/Tramways        l      I
2.1 Design           20X 80a 8 7   0.0  0.0  35.8  85.8  85.8  85.8  86.8  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   179.2   86.8  148.4
2 2.2 Eixpropriation  0510052   4 5   0.0  0.0   0.0 211.5 211.5   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   428.0    0.0  428.0
12.8 Civil Works     52X 48%1 8 7   0 0.0  0.0   0.0            0.0 4018.0 4018.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   4 8086.0 14178.7 4887.8
2.4 Sup rvi don    1 20X 8018    7 I 0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  80.0  80.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   160.0 I 82.0 128.0 1
12.5 Sub Total     I        I     I 0.0  0.0  85.8 247.8 247.8 4138.8 4188.8  0.0  0 0  0.0  0.0 1 8798.2 1424U.6 4661.6                 4%I
12.6 Physical Cont                 I0.0  0.0   8.6  24.7  24.7 418.4 418.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   9 879.8 I                      I
12.7 Price Cont     I                 0.0  0.0   0.9  10.8  14.6 839.2 486.9  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 I 801.9
12.8 Total          I                 0.0  0.0  40.8  282.4  286.8 4886.4 4984.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 110479.9
18. Tech Assistance/Trolning                                                                            I        I              I
18.1 Technical Asst 1 205 8051 2 9   o0.0  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  12.8  0.0  0.0   2 98.0   19.6  78.4
13.2 StudIes        I 20X 8Ol 2 7 1 0.0 888.8  888.8  888.8  88.8  883.8 383.a   .0  o.80  0.0  0.0    00.0  480.0 1840.0
3.4 Sub Total               I         0.0 895.6 89568  895.6 895.8 696.5  895.6  12.8 12.8  0.0  0.0 I 2898.0 I 479.6 1918.4 I
1s.s Physical Coat          I         0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 1   0.0 I                     1
18.6 Price Cont     I       I      I 0.0  8.0   8.9  15.0  21.2  29.5  88.0  1.4  1.7  0.0  0.0 I 118.8
18.7 Total          |       I      | 0.0 898.6 404.5 410.6  416.8 425.1  488.6  13.7  14.0  0.0  0.0 I 2618.8
I -  - -----------                                              _    --  _   -  -   _  ------------  - - -                                                          _
14. TOTALS
14.1 Be Cost        J 58% 42X         0.0 895.6 431.4 642.9 642.9 4529.4 4529.4  12.8  12.8  0.0  0.0 111198.2 14726.2 6470.0
14.2 Physical Cont   I 62% 48X5    I 0.0  0.0   8.8  24.7  24.7 418.4 418.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  O.0 I 879.8 I 424.7  456.2
14.8 Price Cont     |545 46XI      | 0.0  8.0   9.8  25.8  85.7 889.7 474.9  1.4  1.7  0.0  0.0   9 920.7 I 421.8  499.4 
14.4 TOTAL          I 57548X5      I 0.0 898.0 444.8  098.0  708.4 5811.5 5417.7  18.7  14.0  0.0  0.0 112996.7 15572.1 7424.6
-  b0f



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
Table 3.5
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Cost Table by Category
PUBLIC               PHYS.    PRICE
Category            MINVU   TRANS.      TSM       CONT.    CONT.       TOTAL
Civil Works            94.5       8.0       7.9      11.9       12.5      134.8
Equipment               0.3       0.0       1.6       0.0        0.1        2.0
Tech. Assist.           7.4       2.7       1.6       0.0        1.0       12.7
Trg., and Studies
Land Acquisition        0.0       0.4       0.1       0.0        0.0        0.5
TOTAL           102.2     11.1      11.2       11.9      13.6      150.0
=w=== __=      JaAm3 m



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page X of 8
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Training
1.       Objectives.  The objectives of the project training component are
tot
(a)  strengthen the performance capabilities of the urban sector
institution personnel in the areas of (i) urban street
maintenance planning and organization (MINVU and SEREMIS);
(ii) execution and administration of street maintenance
programs (SERVIUS); and (iii) public transport planning,
operation, and regulation, and traffic management (SECTU and
Intendencias).
(b)  strengthen the training unit (UNAT) within HINVU to plan,
organize, coordinate, and evaluate relevant training
programs.
2.       Description of the Training Program.  The urban sector training
program for the period January 1990 through December 1991 is outlined in
the context of the institutional development objectives pursued by the
project. This training program would upgrade the performance capabilities
of about 200 sector managers and professionals representing the core of
professionals involved in the urban transport public sector.  Though not
involved directly in the project, officials from Metro and the Municipality
of Santiago would be invited to participate in the training of SECTU and
MINVU respectively.
3.       The training program would comprise three basic parts:  (i) a
series of training courses for MINVU, SEREMI, and SERVIU (and Municipality
of Santiago) staff to bring their level of expertise up to the standard
required to fulfill their various functions and to implement the physical
works included in the project; (ii) study tours abroad to review public
transport planning and operation (SECTU and Metro personnel) and
maintenance management operations (HINVU); and (iii) technical assistance
for UNAT to provide guidance and on-the-job training in planning and
managing sector training programs.
4.       MINVU Training Component.  As part of the project, MINVU would
establish Urban Street Units (UVUs) in each of its technical directorates
and in the 13 regional SEREMIs and SERVIUs (see Annex 2). Street
maintenance would be the responsibility of these UVUs. In particular, the
UVU in MINVU would be responsible for defining the methodologies used by
SEREMIs and SERVIUs and for national strategic maintenance planning.
Definition of standards and techniques for street maintenance will remain
the responsibility of the Technical Standards and Applications Unit (DDU).
The UVUs in the SERVIUs will operate at the regional level and will prepare
street inventories and street condition surveys, conduct traffic surveys,



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
provide required base data to the SEREMIs for planning of maintenance, and
execute and supervise maintenance ccntracts. The UVUs in the SEREMIs will
evaluate and plan maintenance regionally and submit maintenance proposals
to HINVU for budgetary approval. The training programs will be concentrated
:a the various UVUs to support these functions.
5.       The major component of this training program will be specifically
designed training courses to meet the various needs of the MINVU, SEREMI
and SERVIU staff. The procedures used to develop the courses will be as
follows:
(a)   technical assistance would be delegated to the Sub-Departamento
Vialidad Urbano (DVU) of MINVU, which would assist in the
planning, design, operation, and maintenance of the street
system. As part of this function, the consultant, in
collaboration with the UNAT Training advisor, will define the
level of training required for each of the staff maintenance
categories and will define the scope of the training courses;
(b)   the training advisor would develop the training program in
detail. In Phase 1, the consultant would identify the specific
training requirements of each staff operational category in the
UVUs. finalize the scope of the courses (duration, number of
participanits, etc.) and establish the detailed course schedule.
The duration of Phase 1 is scheduled for 2 months; the output
would be reviewed by MINVU and the Bank. In Phase 2, the
consultant will assist in and coordinate the detailed preparation
of the course materials. Considerable progress has already been
made in developing the courses, so the consultant will only have
to finalize the courses in consultation with the Catholic
University of Chile and University of Chile, the "Public Works
Department" (MINVU), DDU (MINVU), UNAT and the UVUs of MINVU,
SEREMIs and SERVIUs. Phase 2 will include the preparation of
selected courses not currently standard practice in Chile.
Course will probably include preparation of inventories,
condition surveys, and basic planning for Pavement/Maintenance
Management Systems. The duration of Phase 2 is scheduled for four
months and the outputs would be reviewed by the Bank before the
courses are commenced. Phase 3 of the appointment will be to
assist UNAT to monitor the courses over the life of the project
(see paragraph 8). Outline terms of reference for the consultant
are given in Attachment A;
(c)   based on the output from (a) above, the Catholic University of
Chile and University of Chile would be appointed to develop
selected course content in detail. The work will draw on
extensive existing course material but will be tailored to meet
the needs defined during Phase 1. The work will involve the
preparation of course notes, planning of field visits and



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
laboratory demonstrations, and detailed administrative
arrangements to conduct the courses. The duration of this
activity is scheduled for four months. The output would be
reviewed by MINVU and the Bank prior to beginning the courses;
(d)   the Catholic University of Chile and University of Chile would be
appointed to present the courses over the period 3(QO-12/91;
(e)   the training program would be subject to annual review. UNAT,
with technical assistance to be provided under the project, will
be required to prepare an annual report for submission to the
Bank that would evaluate the effectiveness of the courses in
improving staff performance and institutional efficiency in
project evaluation and selection (see paragraph 7) and will
refine the subsequent year's program. This technical assistance
would be provided annually for four years to assist UNAT in
continued development of its training activities after the
project component is completed.
6.        Scope of the Courses.  Detailed development of courses would be
carried out as described in the previous paragraphs. Considerable progress
already has been made by MINVU and the Catholic University of Chile and
University of Chile in defining the basic scope of the courses, the type of
participants, and organizational arrangements (para 5(b)). The principles
of the course program were established. It is proposed that (i) there will
be 3 training courses for about 60 MINVU and SEREMI staff in a series of
presentations over 2 years, and there will be (ii) 3 training courses for
about 140 SERVIU staff in a series of presentations over 2 years. Further
details are given in Attachment A.
7.        Overseas Visits. Some visits abroad would be included within the
program for senior professional and management staff (five staff are
scheduled for visits under the project. The visits would provide an
opportunity for staff to be exposed to foreign technological develJ..vj,'ent
and to study maintenance management systems in operation. The vis'ts will
be scheduled subsequent to mid-1990 to give staff the benefit of training
under the project before going e ,road.
8.        UNAT Functions.  The role of UNAT will be to establish and
strengthen the urban street maintenance training function within MINVU so
the street maintenance training program may be further developed and
continued. It is not envisaged that UNAT will carry out staff training.
Instead UNAT will identify training needs, initiate, coordinate, and plan
courses, supervise and evaluate the effectiveness of the courses, etc. It
is envisaRed that the Catholic University ei Chile, the University of
Chile, as well as personnel from various agencies will present the courses
as and when specified by UNAT. UNAT will monitor and evaluate the training
courses from mid-1989 to mid-1991 and prepare an annual evaluation report.
Based on the annual report, UNAT will review and redefine the subsequent
year's program in consultation with the Bank. These duties will be carried
out by the permanent UNAT Training Officer with the assistance of the



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
coordinating consultant. Thus, throughout the project period (1989-93),
Phase 3 et the coordinating consultant's appointment will be to assist and
provide training to the UNAT Training Officer in establishing the UNAT
role. The Phase 3 appointment will be for 1.5 months per year. Outline
terms of reference are given in Attachment A. To facilitate UNAT urban
street training activities and coordination, a training advisory committee,
staffed by the heads of the urban streets subdepartments in DDU, DPH, and
DITEC, would be appointed. This committee would advise the director of
personnel in matters such as training policy, strategy, priorities,
evaluation, and organization.
9.        Manuals of Procedures and Techniques. The Department of Norms and
Standards (DDU) within MINVU is responsible for establishing norms and
standards. Technical assistance to MINVU (paragraph 5(a)) will review the
manuals and assist DDU in making any necessary changes so the manuals can
become a part of the maintenance training course presentational materials.
10.       Contents of Component. The training component included under the
project will therefore include:
(a)   consultancy services to MINVU for (i) completion of the training
program scope and conter.t (Phase 1), (ii) coordination of and
preparation of course materials (Phase 2), and (iii) assistance
to UNAT in monitoring, supervising, and ongoing planning of the
maintenance trainin& program (Phase 3). In total about 12 man-
months will be required;
(b)   consultancy services from the Catholic University of Chile and
University of Chile for detailed course preparation and
presentation over a two-year period.
(c)   paying expenses of UVU staff for participation in courses, to
include per diem and travel costs to regional centers where
courses will be presented;
(d)   funding of one overseas visit for senior management staff from
the UVUs.
11.       SECTU Training Component.  The SECTU training component consists
primarily of study tours to other countries to review and evaluate public
transport planning and operations. The professional staff of SECTU is
quite qualified technically and would benefit greatly from exposure to
urban transport practices in other parts of the world. Public transport
issues are particularly relevant in Chile; hence, although traffic
management organization and administration would also be observed, the
focus of the tours would be public transport. Tentative arrangements are
being made for visits to Brazil .bus priority measures and public transport
information systems), Mexico (bus/metro integration, bus regulation),
Argentina (bus operation and regulation), and several North American and
European cities to review public transport planninp, integration,
operation, and regulation. The experience gained from reviewing the



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
positive and negative aspects in these various contexts will facilitate
policy and strategy development and facilitate the timely operation of an
integrated urban transport system. Though not directly invnlved in the
project, officials from Metro will be invited to participate in those study
tours relevant to intermodal public transport planning and operation and to
operation of segregated public transport facilities.
12.       Component Costs.  Total cost of the train.ing component is
US$351,000 broken down as follows:
MINVU
(i)    UNAT Training Advisor
Training Needs Assessment                 8,000
Coordination of Course Preparation       16,000
Monitoring and Evaluation                24,000
(ii)    Preparation/Presentation of Courses   125,000
(iii)    Direct Cost of Staff Participation       40,000
(iv)    Study Tours                              40,000
Subtotal                  253,000
SECTU
Study Tours                              98,000
Total                  351,000
13.      The following additional information is available in the project
file:
(a)    number of personnel to be trained by institution and category,
and by component and category;
(b)    number of personnel to be trained and number of courses per
year;
(c)    estimated travel and transport costs;
(d)    preliminary course definition and preparation costs; and
(e)    preliminary study tour itinerary.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
Attachment A
Scope of Courses
1.        Previous development work on the maintenance training courses by
MINVU, the Catholic University of Chile, and the University of Chile
proposed that t'ie courses should comprise 16 separate modules. During
Appraisal, these modules were reviewed with the objectives of: (i) reducing
the level of detail of some of the proposed modules to a level consistent
with maintenance planning and management rather than general transport
planning; (ii) reducing the number of modules such that courses could be
presented in a more concentrated form without frequent absences of staff
from normal duties; and (iii) adding topics to ensure that comprehensive
coverage o' maintenance matters was included.
2.        It was agreed that the courses should comprise:
(a)   three modules primarily aimed at MINVU and SEREMIs. These would
deal with maintenance planning and investment and the
establishment of Pavement/ Maintenance Management Systems;
and
(b)   four modules primarily aimed at SERVIUs. These would deal with
data collection, identification of maintenance needs, and
maintenance works management and control.
3.        It is proposed that the MINVU and SEREMI courses (2(a) above)
should be attended by approximately 15 UVU/MINVU and 31 SEREMI staff (as
proposed by MINVU), and additionally 13 staff from the regional offices of
the SERVIUs to ensure that SERVIUs are aware of the objectives and
techniques of maintenance planning. The 59 staff would attend the three
modules of the MINVU and SEREMI course in 4 groups of approximately 15
staff. Similarly, the SERVIU courses (2(b) above) would be attended by
approximately 121 UVU/SERVIU staff (as propospd by MINVU) and additionally
by 18 MINVU and SEREMI staff to ensure that the planners are fully aware of
the engineering and contract issues involved in maintenance works. The 139
staff woulJ attend the four modules of the SEREMI course in 7 groups of
approximately 20 staff. Thus, in total, 175 staff (15 MINVU, 31 SEREMI, 321
SERVIU) will receive training under the program.
4.        The objectives of the three modules would be to train staff in
the techniques of maintenance planning at the national and regional levels.
The modules will comprise;
(a)   Maintenance Planning (two week module), which will focus on
principles of maintenance planning, data base systems, developing
maintenance strategies, and the establishment of
Pavement/Management Maintenance Systems;



_ 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 8
(b)   Pavement Design and Techniques for Repair and Rehabilitation (one
week module), which considers design standards to be applied;
(c)   Evaluation (one week module) which will deal with project
evaluation, optimization of alternatives strategies, selection of
priority programs in conditions of limited financial resources
and preparation of yearly investment plans.
5.        The objectives of the four modules of the SERVIU course would be
to train staff in the techniques of maintenance program implementation
including; (i) preparation of the basic data for maintenance planning
(ii) detailed design of maintenance measures; and (iii) preparation and
supervision of works. The four modules of the course will comprise:
(a)   Honitoring (one week module), which will deal with (i)
inventories of street networks, traffic data, etc., (ii) data for
maintenance planning, and (iii) data management systems;
(b)   Pavements (two week module), which will deal with (i) design and
techniques for re-air and rehabilitation, (ii) inspection and
evaluation procedures for existing pavements, and (iii) cost
estimation;
(c)   Materials (one week -nodule), which will deal with
(i) characteristics and selection of materials for maintenance
and (ii) testing of materials; and
(d)   Contracts (one week module), which will deal with (i) preparation
of contracts and cost estimation, (ii) supervision of works, and
(iii) safety of works..
Outline Terms of Reference for the Training Coordination
Consultant for MINVU
6.        The objectives of the consultancy appointment will be to:
(a)   Phase 1:  advise in assessing training needs, and finalize the
scope, contents, and schedule for the training courses in street
maintenance to be implemented under the program;
(b)   Phase 2:  assist the Catholic University and the University of
Chile in the preparation of the course materials for use in the
training sessions, and select appropriate training methodologies,
and coordinate institutional arrangements; and
(c)   Phase 3:  assist UNAT in the supervision, monitoring, and
evaluation of the training program and in on-going program
planning.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of A
7.        Under sep&rate terms of reference, the urban streets maintenance
consultant to MINVU would be responsJble for determining the basic strategy
of the courses (see Annex 2, para 16). The training coordination
consultant will liaise closely with the maintenance consultant during the
project.
8.        In Phase 1 (duration two months), the coordinating consultant
will prepare a detailed course plan. The plan will identify the specific
training requirements of each operational category of staff in the UVUs in
MINVU, SEREMIs and SERVIUs. The plan will establish the schedule of courses
(timing, location, number of participants etc.) and will be based on the
outline proposals agreed at appraisal and as refined by the training needs
assessment to be carried out by the urban street maintenance consultant to
DVU.
9.        In Phase 2 (duration four months) the coordinating consultant
will be responsible for coordination, quality control, and assistance to
the Catholic University of Chile and the University of Chile in the matters
of preparing course materials. The objective is to enable the courses to
be presented effectively -- !icluding course notes, worksheets, visual
display materials, setting up of laboratory and field demonstrations. In
particular, the consultant wil' liaise with the maintenance consultant to
prepare the course materials for elements of the proposed courses that have
not yet been developed by the universities, for example,
"Pavement/Maintenance Management System," and "Investment Planning." It is
estimated that Phase 2 will begin approximately one month after Phase 1 to
allow the Bank and MINVU to review proposals arising from Phase 1.
10.       In Phase 3, the coordinating consultant will work with the UNAT
of MINVU to monitor and assess the course effectiveness. Based on this
work, the consultant will be responsible in discussion with UNAT for; (i)
proposing any modifications needed to make the training courses more
effective, and ('i) revising and developing the on-going program (e.g.
number of staff to be trained and type of trainir.g). The consultant will
assist UNAT to prepare a yearly status report to the Bank that provides an
assessment of the previous year's program and includes recommendations for
improving the subsequent year's program.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD
FISCAL YEAR             ANNUAL           CUM.             CUM. 2
1990
12/31/89             12.7           12.7               17
06/30/90              8.1           20.8               28
1991
12/31/90              8.2           29.0               39
06/30/91              9.6           38.6               51
1992
12/31/91              9.6           48.2               64
06/30192              6.5           54.7                73
1993
12/31/92              6.5           61.2               82
06/30/93              5.2           66.4               88
1994
12/31/93              5.3           71.7               96
06/30/94              1.6           73.3               98
1995
12/31/94              1.7           75.0              100
NOTE: Disbursement during the 1st semester of 1990 includes US$7.0
million for establishing a Special Account.



- 52 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
MONITORING AN) EVALUATION
1.       Project monitoring and evaluation will be a joint effort of the
implementing agencies *nd CREDEX.  Based on information pr vided by the
agencies responsible for each subproject, supplemented by independent
monitoring actions, CREDEX will submit quarterly reports to the Bank and
participating project entities. Quarterly report formats have been
discussed with the agencies involved and were confirmed at negotiations.
2.       Monitoring and evaluation will be facilitated by the use of key
indicators to identify progress in the achievement of institutional,
physical, and operational goals. These indicators are presented in
Tables 1 through 3 of this Annex. "Before-and-after" operational analysis
will be undertaken for each component. "Before" information prepared
during project preparation will be systematized and supplemented, where
necessary, during the first year of project implementatJon. Each
implementing agency, assisted by SECTU, will develop a program for final
evaluation of pr-qject components.
3.       Detailed evaluation of the "public transport alternatives" and
"bikeway" components will be carried out by SECTU. This evaluation will
include a review of project viability--from a technical, economic,
financial, environmental, and social standpoint--and recommendations as to
whether such programs should be continued (with reasons for these
recommendations). Terms of reference for the evaluation process will be
submitted for Bank review prior to bidding for these projects.
4.       A project completion report (PCR), prepared in accordance with
standard Bank guidelines, will be developed by CREDEX within six months of
project completion with technical supervision of SECTU and the implementing
agencies.



CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PHYSICAL TARGETS
CALENDAR YEAR AND SEMESTER
COMPONENTS                   UNIT      1989        1990         1991        1992         1993        1994
1    2     1    2       1    2      1    2       1    2      1    2
MINVU SUBPROJECT
Maintenance             m2 (000)     188 191    205  211    268  274    340  345    315  315    259
Rehabilitation          m2 (000)     308 312    336  345    438  448    558  564    500  510    424
Paving                  m2 (000)                 160  170    160  170    160  170    160  170    160
Training Study          I Complete   RFP 1002
Training Activities    Z Complete                 25Z  502    752 1002                                            w
Maint/Rehab Studies    2 Complete                      25Z          50Z         75S         lOOS
Training Evaluation    Z Complete                      25Z          50Z         752         1002
Maint. Advisor          man-months          6      6
PUBLIC TRANS. SUBPROJECT
Concepci6n Urban        As Noted         RFP    EVAL AWARD   502 10O2
Transport Study
Santiago Urban                       RFP AWARD        100?
Transport Study
Pilot Bus/Tramway                        des.         bid     50? 1OO?
Bus/Tramway Evaluation    *                                        RFP    1OO0
Training                2 Complete                25?  252    25?  25?
TSM SUBPROJECT
Traffic Management     As Noted      Des  20?    40?  60?    752 100?               
Bus Priority               *         Des Bid      20? 100?                                                   
Pilot Bikeway                        Des Bid      752 1002 ?
Bikeway Evaluation         *                                 Bid  100?
Technical Assistance   I Complete   15Z  302    45Z  602    80? 1oo0



&w1
0
ol
CH.LE                                                             p
UAM STEETS AN  TRANSPORT PROJECT
INSTUTIIONAL MONITINO - KEY INDICATORS
SUBPROJECT                      WMASIRE(S) OF                        KEY                                       ANJAL TARES
COOT                            EFFECTNS                         MICATORS                1960         1091         1902       1995        2,94
r-prove Focu  on          Dedicated Line An.'s             Cretion of U.V.U's In        100Z
Road Maint/Rehab          end clear lines of Authority    OPH, SFMI's  *nd Service    Couple
Qualified professionals in       Assignment of appropriate   1009
each Itni  gsney                 professionals to posto       Complete
Swerate Maintenane Accounts   Adaquately funded               Ballion  10illion  12*illion  12m*1ilon  12millio
m I_ ntenanc budget (USS 1968)
2. Improve quality of    Iuplessotation of Training        Professlonals attending      200        200         SO          S0
seIce provided            Programs                         training courpon
a. mprovo planning and  Developomnt of Multi-yer           Preparation of Annual        9/30/90   9/30/91      9/30/92     9/30/98
ewaluation of prorm       Programing                       Investment Program
Introduction of pvement/maint.  Operational syste  In         W0S        IOOX
manag nt systems                 *eh Region                   Complet   Complete
SECTOR
T-Yi;rovo delivery of   Oefinition of pollels and          Developmnt of Urban tranc- Begin        Complet
Urban Tnarsport Service   strategies                       port policy recommendations  Studih    rocoend
Es6tblish operational units In  Physical presence and         Santiago   Concepcion
Metro areas                     funding of protfsslonals                 Valparaiso
Training for SECTOR Staff        Study Tours In other         8          a           a
countries
Note:
1986 Dollars



CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL EVALUATION - KEY INDICATORS
SUWROJECT             MEASURE(S) OF                KEY *ANNUAL TARET
COMPONENT             EFFECTIVENESS            INDICATOR(S)          1990     1991      1992     1993     1994
MINVU SUSROECT
1. Maintenance and    Reduced Deterlorntton     Roughneae Index         Samples to be taken in each region
Rehab. Component      Reduced Veh. Operating                            as part of pavewnt mana9g mnt program.
Cost
2. Paving             Improve Acess to          Proximity of                        Project Specific
Public Transport          public transport
Public Trans Pt
1.Ppilot Duci/Tr  _    ore efficient public     Journey Times           To be defined on selection of corridor
way                   transport service         Vehicle speed
Comfort
Reduced Air pollution     Reduced particu-        To be def ined on selection of mods:
lates In corridor      minimum of 20X
per pass/Km
2. Pilot Bikesay      Provision of alternative  Average number of
transport mode            us"rs/day
Improvo safety of         Reduction In bicycle
bicycle mm                accident. from
previous yer
S. Bus Priority       Reduce delay In public    Reduction In Journey
transport service         tIme-(Avq. Seconde/Km)
Av San Dieo  (S-4)                                                               -B4       -70
Av: Recolet. (S-N)                                                               -22       -a5
Av. Recolet (N-S)                                                                -26       -42
Oreacl (E-W)                                                                     -26       -40
a,rcla (-E)                                                                     -3U       -55
Key indictors are to be defined in each years annual program.
W a'o
0Q



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Financial Analysis'
I.   Transport Sector Finances
1.        Although resources from street transport revenues and related
activities are not specifically earmarked, they are sufficient to cover all
street and street-related expenditures, including capital investments.
Total revenues from the transport sector have averaged an annual growth
rate of 13? in real terms between 1984 and 1987, while capital expenditures
have grown by 7? annually during the period. Of the different revenue
sources, the fuel excise tax constitutes the single most important line
item, averaging 80? of total revenues since 1984. While user charges from
tolls accounted for about 6.4Z in 1984, its contribution to total revenues
declined to about 4? by 1987. Motor vehicle license duties increased from
nearly 52 to nearly 142 by 1987. Capital investments undertaken by the
Ministry of Public Works have been increasing at an annual average growth
rate of 4t in real terms from 1984 to 1987. Urban street programs,
primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development, averaged US$12.2 million between 1984 and 1987. Over the last
four years, net funds for additional capital outlays and debt service have
been increasing by a real annual average growth rate of over 22Z. The
transport sector is solvent and, indeed, generates net surplus funds that
are used elsewhere in the economy. Table 1 indicates national transport
sector revenues and expenses.
II. Situation Assessment
2.        Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MINVU).  A
consolidated flow of funds for MINVU is provided in Table 2. Budgets are
prepared for operational or recurrent expenditures and capital investments
that include housing, subsidized housing, and urban street maintenance and
rehabilitation. The main source of funds of the ministry include own-
source revenues (ingresos propios), central government allocations (aporte
fiscal), and financing ('endeudamiento"). Own-source revenues are derived
primarily from the housing component, sale of assets, recovery on loans
etc. Central government allocations are received from the Ministry of
Finance, which appropriates funds to the different ministries; and
financing sources are from external lending agencies, principally the IBRD
and IDB.
3.        Expenditures are composed of recurrent operating costs and
capital expenditures. The former are constituted by operational
expenditures that include personnel, material and supplies, transport,
energy, studies, and other costs. Current transfers are made to private
sector institutions supporting child-care education. The latter category
is classified into regional and nonregional investments. Regional
1/ This annex summarizes the working paper, "Financial Analysis," dated
October 26, 1988, located in the project files.



- 57 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
investments comprise primarily the housing sector and housing related
subsidies, street maintenance and rehabilitation, and 'other". The "other'
category refers to emergency funds used as in the 1985 earthquake, short-
term contingency loans, advance payments to subcontrtctors, etc. Non-
regional investment refers primarily to land purchases.
4.        Central government budgetary appropriations have been increasing
steadily since 1984, when they represented about 552 of tLtal revenues, to
about 662 budgeted for 1988. Simultaneously, the Ministry's own-source
revenues have declined during the same period by about 10Z. This is
explained in part by the sale of land to the private sector, most of which
had been sold by 1987. Outstanding arrears on mortgage loans, sale of
fixed assets, and fluctuations in short-term loans for fiscal year 1987
alone amounted to nearly US$4 million. The Ministry has leveraged its
resources with external financing that accounted for 0.52 in 1984 and
nearly 121 budgeted for 1988. The Ministry's revenues have been growing at
about 72 in real terms.
5.        Recurrent expenditures declined between 1984 and 1987 from 21.92
to 17t of total expenditures. Recurrent expenditures budgeted for 1988 are
expected to increase to about 222, debt servicing being the line item with
a significant increase. Operational expenditures constituted about 502,
debt servicing about 432, and transfers about 72 of total recurrent costs
in 1984. This trend, however, is expected to be reversed in 1988, when
debt servicing will amount to 532, operational expenses to 422, and
transfers to 72. In terms of own-source revenues, operational costs have
increased from 252 in 1984 to 412 budgeted for 1988. While debt servicing
has more than doubled from 202 to 522 for the same period, transfers have
remained constant at 42 for this period. In real terms, while total
recurrent costs have increased at the rate of 7.312 annually, operating
costs and transfers have increased at less than 22 annually while debt
servicing has -rown at 16.92.
6.        Total capital investments accounted for 78.12 of total
expenditures in 1984 and 82.5Z in 1987. Of these, non-regional investments
equaled 16.12 and 62, respectively, while regional investments totaled 622
and about 772, respectively.  Housing and housing subsidies are by far the
predominant activity accounting for 622 of total capital investments in
1984 and 682 in 1987. Street maintenance and rehabilitation accounted for
less than 102 in 1984 and about 102 in 1987. Non-regional investments are
characterized by investments that refer basically to studies undertaken,
replacement of fixed assets, etc. As a percentage of total expenditures,
these costs have fallen from 162 in 1984 to 52 for 1988 while in real terms
tthey have fallen at a rate of 222 annually.  Investment in street
maintenance and urban arterials have fluctuated annually between 1984 and
1987. The budgeted amount for 1988 is US$21.8 million, representing a real
increase of 322 over 1987. Despite the erratic investment pattern over the
past years, the total amount invested between 1984 and 1987 amounts to some
US$49 million. The total amount that would be invested under the proposed
project would be on the order of US$120 million, of which 502 approximately
would be financed by local counterpart funds, thus approximating past
budgetary allocations. The other category (otros) is characterized by
emergency funds that were assigned following the earthquake of 1985 and the
torrential rains of last year. Both these years show marked annual
increases over the previous years.



PILIC OF CHILE
NATIONAL TRMWUT SECTOR REVEIWES A EXPIEIIERS
(M IIloE  of US S Decembe 13)
TABLEIA
t~  ,
OROAACION/ iTES B9e                              am      I"?    to"      to"      low     19t    ton       ua      1994
I
|rI IUIES FROII TRAPOT SECTOR           jI                                                                                 -
I TOLL                                       22.56   10.01   21.U    2.75   21.22   21.60   21.1U   12.6J   28.10   n.l    2n.1
I FUEL EXCISE TAX                           M.19  a01.36  423.29  407.82  450.11  515.36  51.55  652.76  754.25  784.26   784.25
MOTOR VEHICLE LICEt OUTE                  16.97   81.46   49.J8   71.12   73.26   75.45   17.71   e.o4   32.44   32.44    02.44
EXPLOTACION VEHICWOS                       6.61    4sW      4.63    5.61    6.61    5.61    6.31    6.91    6.61    6.O1      5.31
UOTOR VEHICLE IMPOR DUTY                   1.65    6.65    8.a8   8.23    5.86    J.46    5.67    8.67    8.76    8.73        8.73
TRANSFEENCEIA Y AOMS. VEHICULOS        I  11.96   26.63   16.01    1.67    1.67    1.07    1.67    1.07    1.37    1.07       1.67
ATOTL REVESWES                          3 849.92  429.72  609.J5   619.92  664.22  624.24. 691.49  76.656  061.54  651.84   *11.84
OPERA TMW EXPESDIDURES;t
IORISATI  OF HOUSIN A                    IAM DELP   2C.1U   28.17   21.92   23.55   22.45   26.93   2S.50   27.16   29.01   29.61    29.0
I MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WNKS                I  26.57   24.29   26.93   27.65   60.61t   75.83    4.39   66.86   01.69   61.69    *1."I
MINISTRY Of TRANSPORT                  I   1.22    1.52    1.71    1.07    2.16    2.47    2.84    8.27    8.76    5.76       5.70
METRO                                  I  14.38   11.79   13.66   14.61   16.23   10.28   17.66   17.28   18.64   1U.J4    18.64
OTHE I/                                   - I@.Jt    8.42    6.30    2.69    9.8J   9.6O    7.J2    0.31    J.69    S."       a.u
t TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURS            |  ".29   60.19   69.12   67.47  165.21  151.67  187.16  140.20  1JC.N3  15.09   155.609 | 
ICUMEENT ACCINT SURPLS                      272.68  351.55  439.94  443.15  461.61  492.56  554.8   626.66  715.65  715.05   715.461
ITOTAL FINANCING                         I  6.       9J.93   9J.26   78.62   76.45   91.27   92.10  112.63   91.06   99.06    99J.o6
I    MOTAL AVAILABLE FOR CAPITAL WTUlYS  | 52.6.  442.4   6380.20  521.70  638.40  565.6   046.43  739.09   56.72  655.72   *c.It
ICAPITAL INVESTM  
MINISTRY OF H10IN11111 A WAN DEVEOPNTF 21    13.91    5.67   15.03   16.46   17.41   25.64   85.57    9.81   86.61   86.3    so." 
MINISTRY OF PLIC WlS                   1 145.61  155.16  172.78  159.88  16.74  195.2   26.97  269.36  217.46  217.45   217.4S
IMIISTRV OF TRANSPORT                      6.65    0.11    6.55    *.n0    3.96    4.86    4.65    4.98    5.22    5.22       a.22
IMETRO                                     1.04    4.74   15.74   11.13   11.66   12.68   15.31   14.11   14.96   14.96    14.96
OTHER                                      3.36    *."      0.a    6.3 e     .60    6.36    6."     6.36    6."      3.3      6.3
OAL CAPITAL tWESIME                         54.99  166.67  202.67  167.61  216.96  285.73  262.56  266.46  278.64  278.64   27.64 4
IAVAIULAE FOR oNVSTET A OT SERVICE         1 71.51  27.79 a27.58  3S5.97  819.49  5409.a   308.9e  472.69  532.7  582.67   5512.1 t
1/. Det Service esumd b y1th OGeral Trseamy of tAo Republla end to be pseed en to the
priuatled company to be legally constituted next January 160.                                                                       0
21. Inclde lvestmentt In Pavlmentactaie nd Vialidad Urbana. Excludes Investments wundrtaeln by the                                     a fn
Fondo National de Doserrolla Regional.                                                                                              W
3./ Operating Expenditures include debt service corresponding to each of the Central Government agencies.
SOURCE: Ministry Of Finance, Departent. Of Budgeting
Metro Do Santlau.., Min;stry Of Public Works.



-- -- -- -- - --          - -- -- -- -- -- -- - --  -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
g  |  g g | fl ! X i
g        g                               g    8~~~1*
1        |                               |~~~~~~~~~
S    S                                                  S         S  S      -    . _    - o-4       
x  x  xi  g  gg  ^  !!             ,  jb  b  ,, OI 
/                                  ~        ~ ~~~~i :W
__________________     _________________            _________________



- 60 -
ANNEX  7                                                 OULl
Page 5 of 6                                              AuMJtS uWiuwT
Table 2
ConeolIdaterd ii8 FIe of eAtnd
CW  Hi II ioe at Currnt iPric.")
1964    l6      1i      1967    lw       196     1o6     1991    1991    1998    1994
------------------Actu--    - MN IrOdctd(-d--Pro                   --------e---c-----------
Sam=
A. Self-Osnreted
1. Pottelt Recoverj-Ieel in-    42.21   86.01   60.64   29.68   68.01   #2.76   #2.SI   S2.05   81.57   80.86   29.66
Port. RAcov.ry-Iarovoe_nto                                              6.67   lO."i   15.48   16.80   17.86   17.06
8. Sale of Asset. (Land)         22.02   26.64    9.70   17.46   10.66    6.10    6.74    1.82    1.17    1.02    1.02
4. other Source. I/              7.36    6.64    4.20    8.86    8.69    6.86    6.06    6.27    6.52    6.79    7.06
S. Subtotal                      71.60   tU.21   64.60   53.18 * 4i.8S   80.08 e   2.16    5.10   50.06   W6.22   55-00
0. Control sudeet A location       92.16  106.86  106. 1   126.66  129.76  11O.2t  106.30  115.40  162.29  207.82  227.11
C. Borwiags
1. .Esiting Operatiom
a. Sak Q)sn 240-040                   28.86   24.99   13.26   18.62
b. 90 (Leon 115-04)            0.60    1.07    0.18    3.35    0.49
2. Praopead Operation
a. SOan  (Hheng)                                                       87.17   60.07   67.44   86.82    0.00    0.00
b. eank (Urban Trunpprt)                                               10.70   12.47   11.64   12.81   10.86    8.61
c. IDS (Road Iaprove.t)                                                 4.04    5.04    5.69    4.49    1.45    0.00
8. Subtoal                       0.60   20.75   25.12   16.61   14.61   61.91   77.50   66.17   52.62   11.86    6.61
0. Startin Balance                  2.17   -1.98    0.87   -0.45    1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
E. TOTAL SIRCIS                   1I6.75  221.5  195.41  194.6611  196.49  212.26  2ti.62  265.67  22.97  278.87  265.42
A. Operating Eapandituro.
1. DMJ Exieting Oeratime         10.29   17.68   17.18   18.05   18.96   19.56   20.18   20.94   21.78   22.68   28.85
2. iNM #ao. Collectione Coeineion                                          0.66    1.78    2.65    8.42    8.36    8.26
S. Na Traneport GAN                                                        0.16    0.17    0.22    0.22    0.17    0.17
4. SubtotAl                      18.29   17.86   17.18   18.05   18.98   20.86   22.04   28.79   25.42   26.17   26.90
0. Invetnte
1. Hawueno - SaealIno           61.81  101.71  127.29  18i.76  121.69  124.00  129.50  135.00, 140.99  146.90  186.40
- Iecov. Saproveant                                             8.8s   10.86   15.45   18.i0   17.86   17.06
2. Urban Rid. - Historical       8.05    4.11   10.86i   7.06   12.21
- sani tPoaad                                               18.00   20.00   2S.02   26.01   28.00   10.06
5. Otier InveeteAnto 2/          41.90   77.47   16.00   14.62    7.89   14.00   18.67   15.29   1.90   16.64   17.20
4. Subtotal Inveetunte          181.82  186.29  156.65  159.26  140.49  1a5.87  173.86  160.76  236.69  209.07  197.79
C. Oebt Service 5/
1. Existing Obligations          15.78   17.94   21.08   18.60   24.75   25.12   24.49   23.90   21.06   17.29   18.97
2. Proposed bSnb Leon (Haueng)                                             4.04    8.15   12.76   15.18   15.18   61.J6
3. Prooe  Sank Loan (Tranaport)                                            1.19    2.05    2.06    8.73    4.42    9.79
4. Propoe.d MD Lean                                                        0.70    o.9     1.38    1.59    1.47    2.77
S. Subtotel Oebt ServIce         18.78   17.94   21.86   u8.80   24.75   51.06   i5.e0   40.65   41.50   38.S5    8.388
0. Other Expenditure 4/             2."     2.18    3.50    1.25    2.2      2..7    2.27    2.27    2.27    2.27    2.27
E. TOfAL WS                       166.69  221.19  195.67  196.86  194.45  212.5  266.62  255.67  272.97  275.87  285.42
BODO4 BALAW                        -1.95    0.87   -0.48    1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
UALNCE: UV
1/ Includes fine., receipt for twder docuaes. a nd others.
2/ Include. tranpaort and other inveetent classified by MfMf  *- grogioali,mda and aroat regionalized.
3/ Safre 1906. debt service w"  ananed by the Central Teaaury end did not appear an MJM'- books.
Abot 40S In 196 is for internal debt rewlting froe NWM-I former pracice of dirwetly leuing  le*trev.
All Internal debt is expcted to be retired by 1998.
4/ Transfre to third parties.



-6                                ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
PROJECT FINANCIAL IMPACT ASSUMPTIONS
SOURCES:
A. Self-Generated
1. Portfolio Recovery       Maintenance of 1988 level and per
improvement being introduced and
contemplated under the Second Sectoral
Housing Loan of the Bank.
2. Sale of Assets           Decreasing supply of land available for
sale. 1989/90 levels about one-half of
budgeted for 1988, based on estimates of
the finance department.
3. Other Sources            Maintain at 1988 level in real terms.
B.  Central Budget Allocation    Given the decided level of MINVU
investments and corresponding obligations
for operation and debt service
expenditures under tota. uses, calculated
as a "residual" after baseline self-
generated revenues and borrowings were
estimated and budgeted levels for project
were approved by Ministry of Finance.
C.  Borrowings                     As determined under existing and proposed
loan agreements and implementation
schedules with the Ministry of Finance.
USES:
A. Operating Expenditures
1. MINIU Direct Costs       Continuation of 1988 level, and 19.5Z
commission from improvements in portfolio
collection efficiency, and resulting
increase in operation and maintenance
costs of .68? of project investment costs
as provided by MINVU and ratified by
mission estimates.
B.  Investments                    Housing, road maintenance and urban roads
as determined and approved by Ministry of
Finance from 1989 to 1993.
C.  Debt Service                   As determined under existing and proposed
loan agreements and implementation
schedules.
D.  Other Expenditures             Maintenance of 1988 level of activity.



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
CHILE
PROPOSED URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Introduction
1.        Economic costz and benefits were quantified for the MINVU Street
Maintenance and Rehabilitation subproject and for the Traffic Management
component of the Traffic Management subproject. Together, these account
for 872 of the estimated total project base cost. The net present value
(NPV), the benefit-cost ratio (BIC). and the internal economic rate of
return (IERR) were calculated for each component. The results are
setamarized in Table 1.  The overall IERR for the project, 272 and the B/C
ratio is 1.6.
2.        The inclusion of the cost of technical assistance and training in
the project costs without ascribing any quantified benefits to the activity
reduces the project IERR to 262 and the B/C ratio to a little less than
1.6 (from 1.63 to 1.59). The project as a whole , as well as both
components, is economically viable. The sensitivity of the results to a
202 increase in costs and a 202 decrease in benefits does not change this
judgment. A 202 increase in costs reduces the average project IERR to 187.
A 202 decrease in benefits reduces the IERR to 162. Both are well above
the opportunity cost of capital (122).
3.        The feasibility studies and the details of the economic
evaluation are available in the project files.
Table 1
Economic Evaluation Summary Results
ProJect ComPonents        Market Cost a/  NPV bl, c/    B/C dl    IERR dl
(US$ m)      (122)        12?        (2)
MINVU Street Maintenance
& Rehabilitation            109.0       38.7         1.6       25.4
Traffic Management               9.9         8.7        2.0        43.7
118.9       47.4   Avg. 1.6  Avg. 26.9
a/ Base cost plus physical contingencies.
b/ Based on samples described in text.
c/ Economic prices.
d/ Weighted by investment costs.



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
Economic Methodology
4.        In general, market prices are adjusted to derive economic prices
by making appropriate adjustments to eliminate domestic taxes (the 162
value-added tax), direct import duties, and price contingencies. (Physical
contingencies are included.) ODEPLAN shadow prices are used for the
unskilled labor costs of civil works (0.5) and for direct foreign exchange
costs (1.13). No allowance is made for import duties on indirect foreign
exchange costs (the imported inputs used in domestically-produced machinery
and equipment). To that extent, economic costs are overstated.
Project Components
5.        Traffic Management.  The quantified benefits consist of VOC
savings due to faster and more uniform traffic flows. The value of time
savings is excluded and no benefits are quantified for decreases in
accidents or decreased air pollution. At the time of appraisal, about half
of the total number of individual subcomponents had been evaluated. The
results of the economic evaluation are presented in Table 2. The
calculations assume a five-year useful life and zero residual value. To
that extent, the economic returns are understated. The inclusion of the
cost of technical assistance and training without quantifying any benefits
of the activity reduces the NPV (from 2.0 to 1.9), and the IERR (from 43.72
to 41.1X). The sensitivity of the calculations to a 202 increase in costs
(the IERR falls to 332) and a 202 decrease in benefits (the IERR falls to
312) is acceptable.
6.        The potential traffic management sites are selected according to
their NPV. The original calculations, which included the benefits of time
savings, led to the exclusion of some of the sites (a decrease from 13 to 9
iites in Santiago, for example); and the exclusion of the value of time
savings excluded some additional sites.  All of the traffic management
subcomponents to be financed by the project will have a positive NPV and be
economically justified.
Table 2
Traffic Management
Market Cost a/ NPV b/
Metropolitan Area              (US$ m)      (US$ m)      B/C      IERR (2)
Santiago                          2.1        1.3         1.8        38.0
Valparaiso                        0.1         0.2        3.1        78.7
Concepci6n                        1.4        1.3         2.1        49.4
3.6        2.8   Avg. 2.0   Avg.43.7
a/ Economic prices



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
7.        Exclusive Lanes for Mass Transports  Segregated Bus/Tramways:
This subcomponent will include exclusive busways and perhaps trolley buses
as an alternative to extension of the Metro. The economic benefits of VOC
savings are expected to be quite high and the IERR should be much higher
than for any alternative of extending the Metro during the useful life of
the project investment.  The study for this subcomponent was contracted in
early September 1988 and should be concluded by April 1989. On the basis
of a preliminary analysis of 10 bus corridors, one corridor will be
selected for detailed engineering design and for comparison of alternative
technologies (buses and trolley buses, for example).
8.        Although it is impossible at this stage to calculate the economic
viability of the priority bus lane, there is reason to believe that it will
prove to be economically viable. A July 1986 study examined the
feasibility of incorporating a line of trolley buses in Santiago as an
extension to the Metro. The project was estimated to have an IERR of at
least 122 despite several assumptions which significantly reduced the IERR.
(a)   The trolley buses did not have exclusive lanes.  The proposed
project, in contrast, would not mix regular traffic with the
buses. The benefits would be enhanced as a consequence.
(b)   The costs subsequently were estimated to have been overstated by
at least 222. This adjustment alone would have raised the IERR
to over 402.
(c)   The route selected (Independencia) was not a heavily trafficked
corridor, registering some 208,000 daily public transport trips.
Other corridors in Santiago (e.g., Vicuna Mackenna) have about
300,000 daily public transport trips.
9.        The priority lane(s) selected will be for the exclusive use of
public transport, will have lower costs than in the 1986 study, and will
have higher traffic density and project benefitu. It is expected that the
IERR will be over 30Z, consistent with the Bank's experience in other
countries (e.g., Brazil) in Latin America.
10.       MINVU Street Maintenance and Rehabilitation.  The benefits
consist of savings in VOC and in postponed major investments in
rehabilitation. The associated costs are the higher maintenance
expe.1ditures. The methodology which was developed for the analysis was
applied to three pilot cities--Iquique, Curico and Temuco.
11.       The methodology required first establishing a typology of 60
cases. The 60 cases clasiify urban streets according to:
(a)   The volume of traffic (four levels);
(b)   The initial (current) state of deterioration (five levels); and
(c)   The incidence of heavy vehicular traffic in the total traffic mix
(three levels).



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
12.       The economic return of applying alternative maintenance policies
to each of the 60 cells was calculated. The extra costs and benefits of
eight alternative maintenance policies were compared with the present
policy of minimal maintenance.- The comparisons yield, for each cell:
(a)   The NPV, B/C and IERR2 for each policy.
(b)   The maintenance policy which is associated with the maximum NPV
and the highest B/C ratio.
As in the economic analysis of the other project components, market values
are adjusted for taxes, underemployment and unemployment, and for the
overvaluation of the exchange rate to arrive at economic prices.
13.       For each pilot city, the applicatior. of the methodology required
first conducting an inventory of the physical condition of the city streets
and matching the inventory with the 60-cell matrix. In Curico, for
example, the primary network was divided into 125 stretches which then were
allocated to 36 of the 60 typology cells. (The individual stretches
averaged 1,725 m2). In Temuco, the primary network was divided into 360
stretches, averaging 1,695 m2, and allocated to 49 of the 60 case types.
For each of the street segments, the net benefit stream associated with the
maintenance policy that maximizes the NPV then was calculated. The
individual IERRs ranged from 13.2Z to over 100Z. For the city of Curico &'
a whole, the B/C ratio was calculated to be 1.6 and the IEP.R. weighted by
investment costs, to be 25.4Z.
14.       An examination of the nature of the conclusions which emerge from
the typology produces few surprises. The implications are reasonable:
higher maintenance expenditures are called for the heavier is the volume of
traffic, the worse off the initial condition of the street, and the greater
is the incidence of heavy vehicles (axle loads) in the traffic mix. The 19
of the 60 case types which prove to be uneconomic are those in the best
initial condition and which have the lightest traffic volume. For those,
the best policy is to continue the present practice of minimal maintenance.
The corollary of this finding is that, for 41 of the 60 case types, there
is a maintenance policy which represents a better economic use of resources
than presently is the case in Curico.
15.       One finding which perhaps is not obvious is that, beyond certain
proportions of heavy vehicles in the traffic mix, still higher volumes of
heavy vehicle traffic tUctate stable or reduced maintenancp expenditures
rather than higher levels of expenditures. It is more economic to allow
the street to deteriorate faster and to reconstruct it sooner than to
increase maintenance expenditures.
1/ Eight alternatives for paved streets; five for asphalt surfaces.
2/ The IERR was calculated except where it is not a determinant, i.e.,
where there is more than one positive to negative (or vice versa)
variation in the net benefit stream.



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 5
16.       Although the maintenance system which is to be implemented to
some extent quantifies the intuitively obvious, it nevertheless does impose
a discipline of regularly requiring maintenance in a manner that produces
better results than institutions can produce. It also is noteworthy that
the system introduces economic analysis into the selection of maintenance
policies in advance of the work. Thus economic considerations permit a
maximizing behavior rather than an expost rationalization that what was
done was not uneconomic--a satisfying behavior principle.
17.       The economic calculations as prepared for Curico did not include
physical contingencies. The inclusion of 15? physical contingencies
reduces the B/C ratio for this component from 1.6 to 1.4. The inclusion of
the cost of technical assistance and training, without attributing any
benefits to the activity, reduces the IERR from 25.4? to about 242.
18.       The sensitivity calculations for this component are acceptable.
A 20% increase in cost decreases the IERR to about 17%; a 2Z0% decrease in
benefits reduces the IERR to about 15%). The sensitivity concept, however,
is misleading for maintenance projects, since the operational time horizon
during which projected costs and benefits are at risk is a matter of
months rather than years. Increases in costs and decreases in benefits
will be detected at an early stage and dictate a change in the appropriate
maintenance policy for a street segment rather than permitting behavior
that actually decreases the economic viability.
19.       The city-wide economic returns in the maintenance system have not
been calculated for the other two pilot cities--Temuco and Iquique. The
system is designed to ensure that the maintenance policy chosen for each
street segment is economically the best alternative and that it is better
than the present maintenance practice; i.e., that the economic B/C ratio is
greater than 1 and that the IERR is greater than 122. The data bank is not
designed readily to produce combined city-wide weighted average economic
values. Although the exercise was done especially for Curico for
presentation in this report, an examination of the base data makes clear
that if the exercise were also carried out for Temuco, it would show that
the economic returns are at least as high as in Curico and, in all
likelihood, a good deal higher.
20.       As noted in paragraph 13, the 360 street segments in Temuco were
classified into 49 of the C0 case types. This includes 15 cells (case
types) not used in classifying the Curico primary network. Six of these 15
recommend no change in present (minimal) maintenance practices. The other
nine case types proiect a range of B/C ratios of 1:97-4:56, with an
unweighted average of 2:7; and the IERRs range from 27.9-135.0, with an
unweighted average of 66.6. If the averages were weighted and the outlined
economic returns for the city were calculated, the B/C ratio and the IERR
would almost certainly be higher than for Curico.



- 67 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 8
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
The Deregulation of the Public Transport System in Santiago'
General Description of the Public Transport System of Santiago
1.        Car ownership in Santiago almost doubled between 1978 and 1982,
and then leveled off due to the economic crisis in Chile and to higher
import duties. Although car ownership is relatively high (about 0.1
automobile per person) in comparison with other Latin American countries,
most of the population is still dependent on public transport, which
accounts for 85 perceat of all motorized trips in Santiago.
2.        The public transport system in Santiago is characterized by a
large variety of services. It consist of five different modes: the metro,
the "microbuses", the "taxibuses", shared-taxis ("taxi colectivo") and
regular taxis.
3.        The metro is the only service owned and operated by the State
(Ministry of Public Works). The initial plans (SOFRETU, 1968) called for 5
different lines and a reorganization of the surface transport system. The
present network was achiev-ed in 1980.  It is made up of two lines, with a
total track length of 25.5 kms and 35 stations. A short extension of line
2 (Los Heroes - Mapocho) has been built, but the major pending issue is
whether or not line 3 will be built in the near future. The detailed
engineering studies were about to be commissioned, but they were postponed
indefinitely following a major earthquake in 1985.
4.        The metro ridership increased until 1981 (450,000 passengers per
day). then started to decrease, and recently went up again. The metro now
carries more than 500,000 passengers a day.
5.        Generally speaking, the system is well designed and built, and
seems efficiently operated (1,500 employees altogether).  The operating
revenue covers all of the direct operating costs plus a substantial part of
p             the depreciation costs of the rolling stock and equipment.
6.        The major problems that undermine the metro system are (a) the
underutilization of the system (the highest flow recorded (on line 1) is
15,000 passengers per hour): (b) the complete lack of coordination with the
11 Since 1978, Santiago has undertaken a major program of deregulating its
public transportation system. This annex, based on a paper preparel
for the Bank in 1986, reviews the experience under deregulation and
sonte of its unintended consequences.



- 68 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 8
surface transport system; (c) the low coverage of this network, and an
apparent lack of justification of further investments, in view of the
current patronage and the forecast investment costs (US$40-50 million per
km for line 3).
7.        The street transit system is quite extensive and offerp door-to-
door service to most city dwellers. The Tmicrobuses' are large vehicles
with a seating capacity of 35 and a crush capacity of 80-100 passengers.
There is a great variety of vehicle designs. Most microbuses are converted
trucks with bodies assembled in Santiago, while a few are standard buses.
The total fleet at the end of 1985 was about 5,600 serving 254 registered
routes (only 200 of which are actually operated) and carrying some two
million passengers a day.
8.        The "taxibuses' are smaller vehicles with a seating capacity of
20 and a crush capacity of 35-50. There were 2,700 taxibuses at the end of
1985 serving 154 registered routes (with only 100 in operation) and
carrying 1.1 million passengers per day. Before deregulation, taxibuses
could only carry seated passengers:  they provided a more comfortable
service at a higher fare.  However, they have gradually lost this
distinguishing feature.  Today, they provide virtually the same service as
microbuses and charge the same fares (about US$0.25 flat fare).
9.        The shared taxis are regular cars that use 148 different routes
and charge a fare depending on the length of the journey, ranging from
US$0.23 to US$0-.5. The fleet of shared taxis currently tops 4,200 cars,
some of khich provide cheap feeder services to the metro lines. Finally,
there are about 20,000 regular taxis in operation in Greater Santiago.
Taxis and shared-taxis combined carry some 500,000 passengers a day.
Involvement of Regulating Authorities
10.       The urban transport system is supervised by the Ministry of
Transport and Telecommunications (HINTRATEL). At the central level, the
Ministry establishes the national policy and sets technical standards. At
the local level, the Regional Secretary represents the Ministry in his area
of competence and implements national policy guide lines. He is the
authority who grants permits to operators.
11.       Other public agencies involved in urban transport include:
-    The Ministry of Public Works (construction and maintenance of the
national street network; construction and operation of Santiago's
Metro; planning and budgetary control of urban street
inuestment);
-    The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (urban planning;
construction of a few street links);
-    The Municipalities (parking and traffic management);



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 8
-    The Ministry of 'nterior (decides on budget allocations for every
type of investment);
-    The Carabineros of Chile (traffic police and enforcement); and
-    The Commission of Urban Transport, an interministerial agency,
was established in 1980 with the objectives of (a) coordinating
the proposals and decisions of other agencies; (b) undertaking
specific urban transport policy studies and investment planning
schemes. However, the Commission has never been given the
institutional power of a metropolitan (or national) authority for
urban transport.  It is presently functioning as a technical
study center, with a team of 10-15 high-level professionals.
12.       Before 1978, Santiago's public transport system was subject to
stringent regulation. HINTRATEL established routes, fares, fleets per
route, vehicle types, frequencies, and all service variables. Until 1980,
there was also a state-owned bus company with 1,500 vehicles, some 500 of
which were on the streets every day. Starting in 1979, the Government
implemented, in incremental steps, a series of deregulatory measures.
Today, the bus system in Santiago is among the most deregulated services in
the world.
13.       Microbuses and taxibuses:  The operators must apply to MINTRATEL,
simply indicating the route they wish to operate, and enclosing a fitness
certificate for the relevant vehicles. Almost all applications are
approved automatically. However, since 1984, HINTRATEL has stopped
granting permission on "saturated' routes, especially those which lead to
the central (and congested) areas of the city.  Fare controls have been
gradually eased, starting with the freedom to set night and Sunday fares
(July 1982); then the total freedom for all vehicles put into service since
1976; and finally the complete freedom to set fares in June 1983. The only
regulation imposed by the authorities is on student fares (set equal to
about US$0.08). Carabineros and primary school children (under the age of
12) pay nothing. Operators are free to establish their own schedules and
choose their vehicle, provided it passes the technical inspection.
14.       Taxis and shared-taxis:  Entry restrictions were relaxed in July
1978. Now the vehicles licensed to operate as hired vehicles can freely
ply their trade either as taxis or as shared-taxis,2 provided that they
fulfill the technical prerequisites. Since February 1981, shared-taxi
operators have been free to charge whatever fare they want. Taxi operators
may establish the fixed part of the fare (for the first 800 meters) within
a range of about US$0.11-0.80. The subsequent part of the fare is about
US$0.01 per 0.2 km.
15.       All public transport operators are required by law to display
their fare and itinerary in big letters at the front of their vehicle.
2/ Until 1982, taxi owners were even free to swap from regular taxi to
shared taxi whenever they wished. Now they must choose to operate
either as taxi or as shared-taxi.



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 8
Bus operators: organization and operating performance
16.       The following facts refer to microbus and taxibus operators.  For
a total fleet of 8,300, there are about 5,000 to 5,500 vehicle owners in
Santiago, i.e. each operator owns 1.5 vehicle on average. This fragmented
pattern of ownership is not a consequence of deregulation, but has been a
traditional feature of the transport industry in Chile, even during the
"regulated" period. Today, there are only two "big" bus operators, both
with fleets of about 40 vehicles. The small operators have traditionally
formed associations to organize the provision of services on specific
routes.
17.       A route association typically provides bus services on 3 to 5
different routes, with an average fleet of 100 vehicles. Each owner is
entirely responsible for the operation of his/her vehicle, including the
collection of revenues. He appoints one or two drivers who receive a
percentage of gross revenues (about 20 percent) or a fixed salary plus a
smaller percentage of earnings. All microbuses and taxibuses of Santiago
are one-man operated. In addition, the owner pays a daily fee of Ch$400
(US$2) to the association, which in turn finances some basic facilities
that serves as terminals from which buses are dispatched according to the
agreed schedule. In addition, the association usually addresses the legal
issues, insurance problems, and administers a revolving fund for major
repairs. Bus owners take turns, on a weekly basis, in operating the
different routes served by the association.
18.       Generally speaking, bus operators (especially microbuses) do not
show outstanding records of performance in Santiago. AverRge fleet age is
on the rise, availability ratios range between 70 and 80 percent, and each
vehicle hardly carries more than 500 passengers per day. Despite these
facts, there is strong evidence that profitability levels are not as low as
the operators claim, at least for taxibuses.
The Impact of Deregulation and the Evolution of the Public Transport System
19.       The evolut'   of the industry (fleet size, fleet age, average
occupancy ratio, and vperating costs) and the evolution of service levels
(frequency, accessibility, comfort, and fares) have been analyzed yearly by
the Commission of Urban Transport and the Department of Transport
Engineering of the Pontifica Universidad Catolica de Chile. As a direct
consequence of deregulation, new entries have occurred in all market
segments. Between 1978 and 1985, the number of microbuses increased by
45.62, the number of taxibuses by 73.5%, and the fleet of shared taxis grew
from 600 vehicles before deregulation to 4,200 vehicles today. Smaller
vehicles have clearly increased their share of the market. This tendency
is confirmed by interviews with bus operators, who explain that the current
levels of patronage do not justify the operation of large vehicles.
20.       However, the average fleet age also has increased noticeably
between 1980 and 1984, with the age of both microbus and taxibus fleets
increasing by more than three years. There are even some periods when the



_ 71 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 8
average fleet age grows by more than a year each year (e.g. between 1983
and 1984). This phenomenon reflects the particular structure of the
markets  newcomers usually purchase vehicles secondhand from existing
operators, who in turn "renew' their fleet with secondhand vehicles bought
from intercity operators.  Very few brand new vehicles are actually put
into service.
21.       The total number of passengers transported by microbuses and
taxibuses is about the same today as it was in 1978. This is the result of
a noticeable increase (222) from 1978 to 1981 followed by a demand
contraction during subsequent years.  This contraction is probably the
result of two factors: the general economic recession in Chile since 1981,
and the evolution of fares, as will be seen below. It is also clear that a
substantial number of passenger trips have been diverted to the Metro and
to shared-taxis.  With respect to average occupancy rate, statistics show a
striking discrepancy between the two modes. The demand shrinkage has more
deeply affected the microbuses than the taxibuses.  Today microbuses carry
43 percent of the passenger load (per vehicle) recorded in 1978. Taxibuses
have also had their share of the burden, but their average occupancy ratio
is still 75 percent of the 1978 level.
22.       The average operating costs of both microbuses and taxibuses have
increased by 20 percent in real terms between 1978 and 1985, which is
mainly due to a 100 percent hike in fuel prices during the period. Other
parameters have remained about constant.
23.       Evolution of the service level.  As a consequence of the
spectacular increase of the vehicle fleet, both quantity of services and
network coverage have substantially improved.  New routes have been added,
in particular in the peripheral sectors where new urban developments have
occurred. Average frequencies do not show major changes: taxibus lines:
7.5 veh/hr. in 1978 and 8.8 veh/hr. in 1985; mforobus lines: 9.9 vehlhr. in
1978 and 8.4 veh/hr. in 1985.  However, the chronic state of bus
overcrowding that prevailed before the deregulation has almost disappeared
due to the general decrease in occupancy rates.3 Deterioration of load
factors, due to a state of over supply, that has forced bus operators to
push up fares. It may be worth mentioning that, although microbus and
taxibus operators now charge the same fare, the level of service offered by
taxibuses is still perceived by the public as better than the one offered
by microbuses. This also provides a partial explanation of their relative
success.
31 In particular in the center, where frequencies may reach seven vehicles
per minute on certain corridors, vehicles are never more than 502 full,
even during peak hours. However, bus overcrowding still occurs along
the routes coming from remote settlements, during the morning peak
hour.



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 8
24.       Taxi fares have increased in more moderate proportions.  Shared
taxis are the only transport operators who maintained the same fare in real
terms.
25.       The evolution of fares has obviously had negative impacts on the
poorer sectors of the population. A study (Morales, 1985) shows that 50
monthly bus trips now represent 17.7 percent (compared to 2.9 percent in
1978) of the minimum household revenue. Although there is no reliable
information on the actual percentage of household revenue spent on
transport, there is some evidence (e.g. bus patronage) that many dwellers
have changed their behavior and switched to cheaper modes (bicycle,
walking).
Evaluation - Conclusion
26.       To quote Fernandez and DeCea (1986), "today a larger amount of
older vehicles operating at low occupancy rates transport the same total
number of passengers, at lower speeds, and higher fares..." One may indeed
wonder if a better solution could not be obtained, using a lower amount of
resources. In fact, the description of the public transport system in
Santiago raises two questions, which are clearly interrelated:
(a)   Why did the fleets continue to grow after 1981, while the demand
was going down?
(b)   How did shared-taxis operators manage to keep their fares
constant (eren with higher fuel prices) while bus and taxibus
fares increased dramatically?
27.      There seems to be one unique answer to these questions, which is
that the conditions of competition are noticeably uneven among the
different market segments. On one side, the shared-taxis market is clearly
very competitive, with high turn-over rates and no territorial monopolies.
This environment has led operators to be more innovative in finding ways to
cut cost. On the other hand, actual market freedom in the bus industry did
not last for more than two or three years. Until recently, entry was
restricted by MINTRATEL on those routes that were already saturated (almost
all routes passing through the center are now saturated). Second, route
associations have rapidly become cartels which control entirely the access
to the market, and always demonstrate their strong ability of "persuasion"
towards individuals who might be willing to compete for patronage by
charging lower fares. Bus operators compete on the street for patronage,
but they do not compete on fares. Therefore the freedom to set fares, in
the context of a restricted entry, has pushed up fares and produced higher
profit margins, which in turn has encouraged new ventures into the market
in spite of a general contraction of demand.
28.      Lastly, the fleet increases have produced negative externalities,
mainly congestion and air pollution, for which bus operators have not been
charged in proportion to their contribution.



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 8
29.      To conclude, the present situation is clearly not optimal from the
point of view of efficiency. But two important questions remain unaswered:
(i) If the policies implemented before the deregulation had been
pursued, would the resulting situation be more efficient than what
it actually is now?
(ii) What could have been done to maintain real competition in the bus
industry?
30.      Evidence suggests that the enswer to the first question is no.
Before the deregulation, bus services were overstretched, network coverage
was poor, and the State-owned bus company was draining public resources,
while enly serving 5 to 10 percent of the demand. Evidence also shows that
the monopolistic practices observed in the bus industry are not a direct
outcome of the deregulation policy, but a result of the Government's lack
of involvement in maintaining competition.
31.      The second question may be more difficult to answer, because the
route associations needed to offer a scheduled service provide a natural
setting where monopolistic practices can develop more easily. It seems in
this case that some innovative form of Government regulation is called for.



_ 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 8
Santiago: Basic Urban Transport Data
1.  Population (Greater Santiago) .............................. 4.3 million
2.  Rate of population growth (1970-1982) ................... 2.7% per annum
(1960-1970) ................... 3.4% per annum
3.  Metropolitan area            ........................... 490 km2
4. Total number of private cars .430,000
(exact number not available)
5. Private cars per 1000 inhabitants .100
6.  Rate of growth of private cars (1978-1982) .172 per annum
(1982-1986) .about stable
7.  Public Transport Fleet:  Microbuses (cap. 70-100) ................ 5,600
Taxibuses (cap. 35-50) ...2............... ,700
Share Taxis (cap. 4-6) .................. 4,200
Taxis          .      .      .............. 20,000
(30,000 in 1981)
8.  Buses per 1000 inhabitants (taxibus = 0.5) ..                            1.70
9.  Metro system:  line 1 ........................... 15.9 kms; 24 stations;
............................ 29.6 minutes ride time
line 2 ............................ 9.7 kms; 11 stations;
............................ 14.3 minutes ride time
10.  Metro fare (flat fare):  line 1 .Ch$45 (US$0.19)
line 2 .Ch$23 (US$0.10)
11.  Bus fare for regular passenger (flat fare) .Ch$60 (US$0.25)
12.  Street network:  expressways .................................... 91 kms
arterials ..................................... 583 kms
secondary streets ............................. 257 kms
13.  Modal Split:   Automobile ......................................... 152
Microbus .........................................   42%
Taxibus .........................................     23%
Metro .........................................            102
Taxi and shared-taxi ................................ 10%
14.  Retail price:  Gasoline, per litre .................. Ch$84.4 (US$0.34)
Diesel, per litre ..................   Ch$72.0 (US$0.29)
15.  Import duties: Buses ................. 102  (802 before the deregulation)
Automobiles ...................................... 35x
16.  Exchange Rate (September 1988) .............. tS$1 = Chilean Peso Ch$ 242



- 75 -                      ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
URBAN ROADS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Sector Documents
A.1   Memoria 1986; Division de Politica Habitacional MINVU.
A.2   Sector Issues Paper "Land Transport: Liberalization Process,
Current Problems and Possible Solutions"; IBRD; June 24, 1986.
A.3   La Liberalizacion del Transporte Urbano en Santiago de Chile;
CEPAL; September 9, 1985.
A.4   Transport Sector Memorandum; IBRD; June 7, 1988.
A.5   La Politica de Desregulacion del Transporte Colectivo en Santiago
de Chile; Institut National d- Recherche sur lee Transports et
leur Securite; March 1987.
A-6   Documento de Presentacion; Comision de Transporte Urbano;
Santiago, Chile 1987.
A.7   Mensaje del Presidente de la Republica; Ministerio de Economia,
Fomento y Reconstruccion, Subsecretaria de Economia, Gabinete
Ministro; Santiago, Chile.
A.8   Ley Organica de Procedimiento de Expropiaciones; Diario Oficial;
June 9, 1978.
A.9   Programa de Construccion y Mantencion de la Vialidad Urbana,
Trienio 1986-1988; Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, Chile;
February 1985.
A.10 Plan Comunal de Desarrollo 1984-1989; Municipalidad de Santiago;
Secretaria Regional de Planificacion y Coordinacion, XIII Region
Metropolitana.
A.ll Rol y Perspectivas de la Comuna de Santiago en el Crecimiento del
Area Metropolitana; Coporacion para el Desarrollo de Santiago.
A.12  Metro de Santiago 1987; Ministerio de Obras Publicas.
B. Selected Project-Related Studies
B.1   Traffic Signal Survey Summary Report; British Government
Department of Transport; November 1982.
B.2   Estudio de Sistema Tarifario Metro de Santiago; CITRA Ltda.;
Santiago, March 1986.



ANNEX 10                               - 76 -
Page 2 of 3
B.3   Estudio de una Red de Trolebuses en la Ciudad de Santiago;
Minsterio de Obras Publicas; August 1980.
B.4   "Uso Eficiente de Energia en Chile"; Direccion General de Metro;
Santiago, Chile; December 1982.
B.5   Mejoraoiento del Entorno de Estaciones; INTRAT Consultores;
Santiago, Chile; March 1988.
B.6   Proposicion de un Nuevo Indice de Calidad del Aire; Unidad
Coordinadora Proyecto BID 469/OC-CH; April 1988.
B.7   Estudio de Caracterizaciones Fisicas y Quimicas de Particulas en
Suspension en la Region Metropolitana; Universidad de Chile;
March 1985.
B.8   Investigacion, Diseno y Operacion de Ciclovias Urbanas, Tomo I:
Memoria; Secretaria Regional de Coordinacion y Planificacion;
May 1988.
B.9   Subprograma de Gestion de Transito; Comision de Transporte
Urbano; May 1988.
B.10  Estudio de Mantenimiento Vial Urbano; R&Q Ingenieria Ltda.;
February 1988.
B.11  Encuesta de Origen-Destino de Viajes en Metro; Ministerio de
Obras Publicas; November 27, 1985.
B.12  Viajes Combinados, Metro-Locomocion de Superficio; Ministerio de
Obras Publicas; January 1987.
B.13  Estudio de Investigacion de Metodologia de Analisis y Seguimiento
de Transporte Urbano; Comision de Transporte Urbano; August 1988.
B.14. Evaluacion del Proyecto de Cambio de Equipos de Control de
Semaforos en Ejes de la Red Vial Primaria Comunal; Municipalidad
de Santiago; 1987.
B.15  Sistema de Control de Trafico para El Gran Santiago; Comision de
Transporte Urbano; December 1982.
B.16  Analisis de la Factibilidad Economica de la Linea 3, Sector Stir-
Oriente Tramo Plaza de Armas-Plaza Nunoa: Red del Metro de
Santiago; December 1983.
B.17  La Linea 3 del Metro de Santiago; Ministerio de Obras Publicas;
October 1984.
C. Selected Proiect-Related Working Papers
C.1   Diagnostico del Sistema de Transporte Urbano; Comision de
Transporte Urbano; November 27, 84.



- 77 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
C.2   Diagnostico Sistema de Transporte Urbano del Gran Valparaiso;
1988.
C.3   Diagnostico Sistema de Transpor.e Urbano del Gran Concepcion;
1988.
C.4   Programa de Inversion Publica Sector Transporte Urbano 1988-1993;
Comision de Transporte Urbano; July 1987.
C.5   Project Working Papers including:
i. Organization
ii.  Vehicle Operating Costs
iii.  Economic Analysis
iv.  Financial Analysis
v. Development of Project Costs
vi.  Maps
vii.  Local Procurement Regulations
viii.  Local Design Standards
ix.  Terms .f Reference for Project Studies
Maintenance
xi.  Technical Assistance and Training
xii.  Pollution
xiii. It Program of Urban Road Projects



IBRD 21216
| ~~~~~~P  E  R  U                                                                                                              B-  2 l(}  4   
Si1                                       Pooc                                              1 11   Nb i 
TocoFina  rna   o )                                E  ODREGION  La  LiLua  Z  REGION  L imar,
DE        0         a El                     UE
ANO AGASTA )APRI~                                        V                                           II _g                                                                       Sou>Lnae>  y>  NENThOA  IROT
/                       OW/Iota                     c oo .  /  SEE INSET D                                                                           EXDoapN America
/   \2zAn-ot.gasts   *                                 u Q      t     <¢^ngeles  *                                                     tS             -PR             30UNDAuRIIota  oS
CD       ALPARk   lCiacabuc           <OIAIUc
%.--,       k~a/parais       0ONAG
REGIONA                                                                                                          REGION AISEN DEL           XI (.  l    ueO  B
REGION      lqj'Oue ~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn Antono                           XII(/      Vit Dsi Ma 6w
DE                                             Ta/a aA L PARASO A                                                   Elto  Es erna   GENERAL CARLOS
20     TAAPC                                           SonJ Anoi   ,,|           n A eRADNIArv\ -
DE           0P                                                0 =, emardo3*                                                  IB IANEZ DEL CAMPO
20'    ^M                                            Se   Anor0l  lI    Teaerl    Co'd"rno            Ct/\                                                                                   Df   ug
IGUIQUE  (                                                                                                                           General ~~~~~~~~~~CoCbIer
2l'7l/l   ap   REGION               C=                             § tY                                 Garnerara   i Cc
~~~~40                                              ME   P OSLAGStI  aa  ..<..D AATARTC                                                           HLNA  /4
720            VI                            Caro 
REGION DEL LIBERTADOlV,e-t'4r                                                                                     RAILROADS
Tocop~~~~~~~ua  '. ~~~~~~GENERAL BERNARDO O'HIIGGINS                           rc tg                8       ~CONTOURS (1.000 Metor Intervals)
22'               Tocopilln                                       22nu                                             CuriC                             Capitan Prat                           RIVERS
Morra Cun RO Ca stitucid"                                                                                                                                        CREG ON
REGION                      Ca                                                 /  Paena                                             TRANS ORT EGOJECSALINE LAKES
DE           ElLoa                                                                                                                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~E
REGION  El 08DE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINES
ANTOFAGASTA   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ones                                   36' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
1.PORTS. THROU!I.H.PUT
EXCEEDING 30.000 TONS
II bREGION DEL                                                                                                                                          PER YEAR
ANTOFAGAST1                                       /            810610  CO~Inxii                                                                         (0CPTI 
24'                                                         '     24'.                                                                                                                      NATIONCALIAL
Antotaata                                                               BISOPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
0'~~~.        REGION BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
<  .381  ~ ~ ~~MllC  VctrUltima Esperanza                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Taltal                                    Z                                                                       3-c
REGION         TEMUCO
26'                                                               28'-   LA ARAUCANIA         ui 
CloRavaI        Chabara:                      z
Magallanes   PM
LLJ        via                    z                                                      M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AENA"
cop"apc                               0           .40'             La                                 L J     4M-                                                           ir
REGION                              r1~
DE                                                                              ON                                                                                                        Tierra
ATACAMA                                                                                                                                                                                    De, Fuego
28'                                                                r      REGION                                                        S'                                                                               54
DE                                                             REGION DE MAGALLANES V
LOS AGO    /      to                                          DE LA ANTARTICA CHILENA
.4?           nu                                           42?                       C  H      I'  E              AnMartica Chdiena
'P. VI" a.*v IMF                              ~R E G                                    IO   N  S
d..*0* W . -A* W So
"W,, 1f of rTh 00*4m 90f                                                                5'
-30*         -1 -f M 0-d-1 0-   301-                                                                        URBAN               ROADS  AND
REGION                                         W (r.fd =', da/Vn                                                                              TRANSPORT  PROJECT                              95   0   5   0
DE                                                   me "V on.                                                                                                                                      KilOAMETR
77    ~ ~   ~    706*________7'76'                                                                                                                  74'            7?             ?0'
NOVEMBER 1988



IBRD 21215
A.                                            tLp U KA
J,
m
C H I L E
V ITO                                      GREATER SANTIAGO
q
URBAN TRANSPORT
IMPROVEMENTS
J
CA- V
44                                                                     TRAFFIC MANAGEW14T CORRIDORS
0 A_                                                                          ARFA TRAFrIC CONTROL
CANDIDATE EXCLUSIVE BUS-WAYS
lp U   H U E L                                      c                                                                                                                                             FOR PILOT SCHEME
PROPOSED BIKE-WAYS
EYJSTING BIKE-WAYS
PROVINCE BOUNDAFUES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAFJES
__:777                                            7%
x
-7 %
t"  L  LEN
107  I                                                                                       M
PERU/.\
J,                                                                                                       BOLIVIA
.20'                                            20-
BRAZIL
ui
PARAGUWY.
.,,%LA FLQ   D
PACIFIC-
OCfAN
U/
ARGENTINA                      300.
301
URUGUAY
Et E3                                                                                   SANTIAGO *e
&A
W,
400.
-409
PILIEN-TE
A Ti ANJ Ti
,SAN
0(1-/,'!
0                     4                                                                                                                              AM
K" TEJO                                    . .....                                                                                                                         f
0       SW       1000
= v nz                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOaRS
_iF
NOVEMBER 1988



