Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16228
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3028-CH)
January 7, 1997
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan 3028-CH)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (CH$)
(July each Year)
1989 IUS$ = CH$ 260
1990 IUS$ = CH$ 300
1991 IUS$ = CH$ 363
1992 IUS$ = CH$ 390
1993 IUS$ = CH$ 430
1994 lUS$ = CH$ 425
1995 IUS$ = CH$ 397
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Acting Vice President        Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Director            : Ms. Constance Bernard
Division Chief             : Mr. Asif Faiz
Task Manager                 Mr. Gerhard Menckhoff



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT                   Build, Operate, Transfer
CTU                   Comisi6n de Transporte Urbano (Urban Transport Commission)
IDB                   Inter - American Development Bank
IERR                  Internal Economic Rate of Return
MfNVU                 Ministerio de Vivienday Urbanismo (Ministry of Housing and Urban
Planning)
MOP                   Ministerio de Obras Putblicas (Ministry of Public Works)
NPV                   Net Present Value
SECTRA                Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comisi6n de Planificaci6n de Transporte
(Executive Secretariat of the Commission for Transport Planning)
SECTU                 Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comisi6n de Transporte Urbano (Executive
Secretariat of the Commission for Urban Transport)
SEREMI                Secretaria Regional Ministerial (Regional Ministerial Secretariat)
SERVIU                Servicio de Vivienday Urbanismo (Regional Housing and Urban Planning
Services)
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed hiLhout World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
Preface .............. 1
Evaluation Summary ...............ii
Part I        Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives          .I
B. Achievement of Objectives.                                 2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                      4
D. Project Sustainability.                                    5
E. Bank Performance.                                          5
F. Borrower Performance.                                      6
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                     7
H. Future Operations.                                         7
I. Key Lessons Learned.                                       8
Part H      Statistical Tables
Table 1   -   Summary of Assessments.                                     9
Table 2   -   Related Bank Loans .10
Table 3   -   Project Timetable .11
Table 4     -      Cumulative Loan Disbursements: Estimated
and Actual                                            11
Table 5     -      Project Implementation Schedule .12
Table 6A    -      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Physical Targets                                      13
Table 6B    -      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Institutional Monitoring .14
Table 7     -      Studies Included in Project .15
Table 8A  -  Project Costs .17
Table 8B  -   Project Financing .17
Table 9     .      Economic Costs and Benefits .18
Table 10    -      Status of Legal Covenants                             19
Table 11    -      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table 12    -      Bank Resources: Missions .21
Appendices:A.    Borrower's Evaluation      ..22
B.    Map IBRD 21216






- l -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3028-CH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Urban Streets and Transport Project
(Chile), for which Loan 3028-CH in the amount of US$75 million equivalent was approved on March 21,
1989 and became effective on September 7, 1989.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, one year after the original Closing Date of December
31, 1994. The government did not request disbursements for a balance of about US$1 million, which was
canceled on June 27, 1996. The last disbursement took place on March 26, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Sergio Miquel, consultant to LAIIU, under the supervision of Gerhard
Menckhoff, task manager, LAIIU, and reviewed by Asif Faiz, Division Chief, LAlIU, and Orville Grimes,
Projects Adviser, LAIDR. Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision mission in
August 1995. It is based on materials in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR; the Ministry of Housing and Urban and Planning (MINVU) by providing unofficially some basic data
and tables, and the Executive Secretariat for Transport Planning (SECTRA) by preparing its own evaluation
of project preparation and execution, which was sent to the consultant by letter SCT-96-0958 on May
31,1996.
The Borrower sent its comments to the Bank by letter dated August 27,1996. While SECTRA had no
comments, MINVU dissented strongly with some of the statements contained in the ICR, particularly with
what they felt to be an unfair comparison between MINVU and SECTRA. The consultant discussed these
objections with MINVU in November 1996. Although these discussions did not overcome all disagreements,
they gave MINVU a better understanding of the Bank's position and the judgrnents expressed in the ICR.
Some minor changes of wording were introduced, and a few figures of Table 6A were revised. The Borrower
expressed its no objection to the publication of the revised ICR version. Also in November 1996, the Bank
received the Borrower's Final Evaluation Report, the text of which is included in Appendix A.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3028-CH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Prior to this Loan, the Bank had provided assistance to Chile's rural roads subsector since 1961,
through one credit and six loans totaling US$360 million to the Ministry of Public Works (MOP). The first
four lending operations (1961-79) were characterized by implementation difficulties, slow execution of works
and cost overruns, while the last three projects (1980-90) were implemented effectively at significant lower
cost and in a timely manner, fully meeting their objectives. Based on this positive project implementation
experience, the recognized need for assistance in the urban transport sector, and the satisfactory
implementation of the Public Sector Housing Project (Loan 2482-CH) by the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Planning (MINVU), the government and the Bank agreed to extend their collaboration to the urban transport
subsector acting mainly through MINVU.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen institutional capabilities to plan, manage and
maintain urban transport systems in Chile in a cost-effective manner; (b) preserve and maintain the national
investment in urban street infrastructure; (c) facilitate the integration of urban transport modes, and reduce
congestion and air pollution; and (d) demonstrate the efficiency of alternative public transport modes,
including bikeways. These objectives remained substantially unchanged during project implementation.
Covenants 3.03 a), b) and c) required the Borrower to prepare Annual Urban Street Maintenance and
Improvement Programs and to increase the amount of the maintenance budget on a yearly basis. The project
objectives were an integral part of the Bank's assistance strategy to Chile: optimization of investment in
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, and reduction of environmental pollution, supporting the
government's stated overall policy objectives of increased efficiency in the delivery of public services and
reduced subsidies.
The definition of objectives and the organization of the project in three subprojects, as well as their
respective content, were adequate for the political and institutional conditions at the time of appraisal; the
actions proposed to achieve the project objectives and carry out the subprojects were correct. As a result of
the complexity of the Chilean urban transport sector, the project design was quite complex (paras 3 and 4).
MINVU was selected as administrator of the project and as executing agency for the urban street maintenance
and rehabilitation project component (82% of project cost), and SECTU, Executive Secretariat of the
Interministerial Urban Transport Commission, was selected as executing agency for the public transport and
traffic management components (18% of project cost). In early 1990, SECTU's responsibilities were
expanded from urban transport to general transport, its name was changed to SECTRA, and it was attached to
the Ministry of Planning, which under its charter cannot act as an execution agency for civil works.



- iii -
Implementation Experience and Results
The project was successful in the achievement of most of its objectives (para 5 to 14). MINVU
achieved fully, and even surpassed, the objectives related to investment and works execution for urban street
paving and maintenance. It developed lower-cost paving alternatives and a cost-sharing system for paving of
streets and alleys in low-income communities (para 17), as well as adequate systems for the planning and
administration of urban street rehabilitation works and maintenance activities.  These achievements
contributed to the reduction of air pollution in Santiago (para 12). Several studies carried out by SECTRA on
Public Transport and Traffic Management subjects and the later implementation of some of the resulting
projects contributed fundamentally to the achievement of the project objectives by facilitating the integration of
urban transport modes, reducing congestion and air pollution, improving traffic models and developing new
strategies for urban transport. The objective of demonstrating the efficiency of alternative public transport
modes was only partially achieved (para 9). While the institutional strengthening impact of the project on
SECTRA was highly satisfactory, it failed to achieve satisfactory results in MINVU (paraslO and 11).
Overall investment in urban street administration increased 129% above the targets agreed at
negotiations, contributing to a nine-fold increase in the urban streets actually maintained under the project and
a four-fold increase in street paving as compared to the agreed targets (paras 7 and 8). Implementation of civil
works related to the traffic management and public transport components experienced substantial delays and
reductions in their scope (para 9). The schedules for implementation of MINVU's training program and
SECTRA's ambitious studies and technical assistance programs also suffered substantial delays (para 10).
The remarkable expansion of the Chilean economy during project implementation, coupled with the
application of sound macroeconomic policies, and the substantial increase in the financing of the infrastructure
and social sectors, resulted in the above-mentioned increase in project financing (para 16). However, the
government's decision to modify the scope and the institutional attachment of SECTRA and to change
priorities of some public transport subprojects resulted in the postponement and partial cancellation of urban
traffic and transport-related civil works (para 15).
The performance of the Bank during preparation, appraisal and implementation of the project was
satisfactory (paras 20 to 22). The definition of objectives, as well as the scope and organization of the project
were adequate, but the evaluation of MINVU's performance capability and the timetable for execution of
SECTRA's studies proved to be overoptimistic. Supervision efforts were devoted mostly to solving project
implementation problems, and the supervision teams therefore could not exert adequate quality control over
works execution. The Borrower's performance was mixed (paras 23 to 27). MINVU was unable to sustain
its sense of ownership of the project and to overcome some inherent institutional weaknesses. Due to its
broad responsibilities, increased work load and staffing limitations, MINVU's performance as administrator of
the project and as executing agency of its own component was less than satisfactory. SECTRA achieved full
ownership of its project components and performed in a highly satisfactory manner.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The project outcome is satisfactory (para 28). It achieved and exceeded most of its objectives, but fell
short on others, failing for example to demonstrate the efficiency of bikeways as an alternative transport mode.
The economic indicators (NPVs and IERRs) could not be confirmed, but it can be shown that actual economic
results of the project are more favorable than those estimated at appraisal (para 14).  Satisfactory
sustainability of the MINVU project component is not ensured completely, whereas sustainability of the
SECTRA component is highly probable (paras 18 and 19).



- 1v -
Since the government has advised the Bank that it no longer requires the Bank's financial assistance,
future Bank collaboration in the urban transport sector, if any, may be restricted to technical assistance.
Nevertheless, both MINVU and SECTRA have formulated general operation plans for the future, comprising
programs and actions which would build on and expand achievements under the project thus ensuring their
economic, social and environmental sustainability (para 29).
The main lessons to be learned from this project are:
*     Availability of sufficient financial resources for satisfactory implementation of a project can be
ensured through favorable macroeconomic conditions, sound macroeconomic policies and adequate
sectoral allocation of budget resources.
*      Satisfactory project implementation is fundamentally determined by adequate project design, which
should be kept as simple as possible within the complexities of the sector and of the project objectives.
*     Inherent institutional weaknesses identified during project preparation should be dealt with not only by
requiring fulfillment of action plans and key indicators, but also by establishing well-designed and
clearly formulated loan covenants.
*      Following modem trends of other Chilean public infrastructure agencies, MINVU should seriously
consider implementation of a progressive transfer of its countrywide responsibilities to the municipal
and regional govemments and to the private sector, reducing its own role to regulatory, planning,
monitoring and quality assurance functions.
*      Scheduling of implementation of civil works, studies and technical assistance should not be
unrealistically ambitious and should take due consideration of the executing agency's implementation
capacity.
*      The importance of project ownership by the govenmment and by implementing agencies cannot be
over-emphasized, as clearly shown in this case, where the government's and SECTRA's ownership
remained constant, whereas MINVU's ownership diminished progressively during project execution.
*      Delays in project implementation caused by the restructuring of govenmient functions, such as
occurred with SECTRA, should be dealt with rapidly to maintain continuity in project implementation
and ensure achievement of important project objectives.
*      In addition to the performance of tasks related to general project administration and problem solving,
planning and budgeting of supervision missions should provide sufficient time in the field to allow
adequate supervision and quality control of works execution.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3028-CH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen institutional capabilities to plan, manage and
maintain urban transport systems in Chile in a cost-effective manner; (b) preserve and maintain national
investments in urban street infrastructure; (c) facilitate the integration of urban transport modes, reduce
congestion, and contribute to a reduction in air pollution; and (d) demonstrate the efficiency of alternative
public transport modes, including bikeways.
2.    These objectives were an integral part of the Bank's assistance strategy to Chile, which included
optimization of investment in infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, amelioration of the impact of
declining petroleum reserves, as well as help in reducing environmental pollution. They supported the
government's stated overall policy objectives of increased efficiency in the delivery of public services and
reduced subsidies. These objectives remained substantially unchanged during project implementation.
3.    The project design was quite complex. Out of a great number of government agencies involved in
urban transport, the two main ones were selected as implementing agencies for the project. The Ministry of
Housing and Urban Planning (MINVU), which is responsible for the planning, design, construction and
maintenance of the urban street network, was selected as the government's representative for administration of
the project and as executing agency for the project component dealing with the rehabilitation and maintenance
of urban streets (82% of project cost, Table 8A). Because MINVU, since its creation in 1965, had focused
progressively on housing to the detriment of its responsibilities for urban street management, the project
included substantial institutional strengthening and personnel training to enhance MINVU's capabilities in the
road sector. The Executive Secretariat (SECTU) of the Interministerial Urban Transport Commission (CTU),
created in 1982, was selected as the implementing agency for the Public Transport and Traffic Management
components of the project (18% of project cost). Since there had been scant collaboration between MINVU
and SECTU in the past, the project aimed at the establishment of better working relationships between these
two agencies and among all agencies involved in urban transport.
4.     Compliance with the above objectives and project design was quite demanding for MINVU. Its basic
organization for the execution of the big urban streets rehabilitation and maintenance component proved to be
even weaker than forecast during appraisal. MINVU was unable to put together the strong Project Unit
needed for execution of the project, its regional secretariats (SEREMIs) and service units (SERVIUs) often
acted independently and without due knowledge or consideration of commitments under Bank financing; its
Financial Department had difficulties in establishing adequate financial and accounting control of project
expenditures (paras 24 and 25).  SECTU, on the other hand, proved to have the professional and
organizational strength for the execution of traffic engineering and policy-oriented studies addressing urban
transport issues (para 26). However, its function as a works executing agency, as envisaged at project
appraisal, was curtailed by structural changes introduced in early 1990. The new incoming government
expanded SECTU's planning responsibilities from urban transport to general transport, renamed it SECTRA
and attached it to the Ministry of Planning, which under its charter cannot act as a works executing agency. It



- 2 -
took the Ministries of Finance, Housing and Planning and the Contraloria General de la Repiublica three years
to agree on a procedure to entrust execution of the project's traffic management works to MINVU and to
transfer funds from one Ministry to the other.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
5.     Macroeconomic policies. Through a substantially increased execution of urban street paving and
maintenance works (Table 6A), as well as through the development of more efficient traffic control schemes,
the project contributed to increasing the capacity of the urban street network, to reducing fuel consumption,
and to decreasing transport costs, thus supporting the economic development of the country. Between 1989
and 1995 the Chilean economy experienced substantial growth, as demonstrated by the following rates of
increase: vehicle fleet 56%, average traffic at toll stations 69%, value of exports 86% and value of imports
105%. The macroeconomic objective of increasing the efficiency of the delivery of public services was
formulated in a general manner and was not quantified. The achievement of this objective was mixed and is
discussed in paragraphs 10 and 11 below. The reduction of subsidies was partially achieved by MINVU in
the later stage of project implementation through the introduction of the "participatory paving program" (para
17). On the other hand, SECTRA contributed to the reduction of subsidies to the urban transport subsector by
assisting in the development of several "Build, Operate, Transfer" (BOT) concession projects for main urban
transport corridors and highly congested urban areas, the implementation of which is expected to start in late
1996.
6.    Transport sector policies. In the achievement of the sectoral objective to preserve the national
investment in street infrastructure, MINVU succeeded in substantially increasing investment for maintenance
and upgrading of the urban street network (para 7 below). The enactment of Law No 19175 on Regional
Governments and Administration (March 1993) enhanced the participation of regional governments in the
selection of specific urban street investment projects to be financed under the MINVU budget, thus supporting
decentralization of the decision taking process. The numerous studies carried out by SECTRA on Public
Transport and Traffic Management subjects (Table 7) and the later implementation of some of these projects
helped fundamentally to facilitate the integration of urban transport modes, reduce congestion and air
pollution, improve traffic models and develop new strategies for urban transport.  The objective of
demonstrating the efficiency of alternative public transport modes was only partially achieved (para 9).
7.     Financial objectives. Although not expressly stated, the project concept implied the objective of
securing adequate financing for the implementation of an extensive urban street maintenance, rehabilitation
and paving program. This objective was fully achieved and even exceeded, because the increased emphasis
placed by the incoming democratic governments on investments for the infrastructure and the social sectors
provided for a substantial increase in MINVU's budgets from 1991 on. This resulted in an overall investment
increase for urban street administration of 129% above the physical targets agreed at negotiations (Table 8A).
General funding of the SECTRA component remained at the same level envisioned at appraisal. However,
due to difficulties in the implementation of works, financing was shifted from civil works execution to
expansion of the technical assistance and studies.
8.    Physical objectives. The substantial growth in MINVU's funding, coupled with higher productivity
and with enhanced execution of low-cost routine maintenance activities, increased total surface of urban
streets actually maintained under the project nine times above the physical targets agreed at negotiations
(Table 6A). The compliance with physical targets for rehabilitation under the project is registered as only
28%, including the extensive rehabilitation works accomplished by MINVU using about a third of the
proceeds provided by IDB Loan 559-OG-CH for US$45.5 million approved on March 20, 1989. This loan
was jointly executed by MINVU, using US$15 million from loan proceeds for rehabilitation works (total
surface 796,000 m2), and by the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), using the balance for new construction.



The low compliance with rehabilitation targets may be partially explained by inaccurate recording of actual
rehabilitation works as maintenance works in many regions, combined with deficient technical evaluation of
submitted records at headquarters. Finally, additional financing and the adoption of lower-cost paving
solutions during project implementation contributed to a four-fold increase in urban street paving under the
project beyond the physical targets agreed at negotiations.
9.    SECTRA, on the other hand, complied with and exceeded targets set for execution of all public
transport studies and most traffic management studies, thus contributing in a fundamental way to the
consolidation of urban transport and traffic planning in Chile. However, for reasons explained in paragraph 4
above, implementation of traffic management works was delayed by three years; four contracts were
completed under the project and one was completed thereafter. The original plan to build an exclusive
bus/tramway along Vicunia Mackena Avenue (about 18 km) was scrapped, because the government decided to
build a subway instead. It was replaced by the construction of a much shorter exclusive busway project along
Grecia Avenue (about 3 km), which was inaugurated on July 20, 1995. The engineering study for the bikeway
(about 8 km) along Americo Vespucio Avenue (Santiago Beltway) was completed in 1989, but found far too
expensive by MINVU and the Bank. MINVU's reluctance to go ahead with this project, which it did not
consider to be a priority, postponed execution of the redesign until 1994. Finally in 1995, the government
dropped this project completely, because it decided to upgrade the existing ring road to a high-capacity
beltway, including exclusive buslanes, to be built under a concession scheme. This high-priority project will
occupy the full width of the existing right-of-way and will leave no space for the bikeway. In the meantime,
MINVU built, with its own funding, two other experimental bikeways, one 2.3 km and the other 8.4 km long.
The evaluation study of this alternative transport mode will be carried out within a general study on the
expansion of the bikeway program in the Santiago metropolitan area.
10.   Institutional development. The achievement of this objective, closely linked to the objective of
increasing the efficiency of the delivery of public services (para 5 above), was mixed. MINVU succeeded in
managing over the project period a 129% increase in its urban streets investment program without expanding
its physical and human resources. However, the institutional strengthening impact of the project was not
satisfactory due mainly to: (i) strong restrictions on MINVU's administrative expenditures, (ii) fiscal policies
curtailing engagement of new staff, and (iii) lack of incentives of the existing staff due to low salary levels.
The central Urban Roads Department remained understaffed and the specialized units for road administration
in the regions were not created. Works execution is not efficiently distributed during the year, it is extremely
low during the first quarter and heavily bunched towards the end of the year. Adequate quality control of
works is not consistently carried out. Financial auditing has detected repeated weaknesses in the accounting
system (para 25). Compliance with the timeliness of project reporting has been unsatisfactory. The training
component, which was meant to assist in overcoming these shortages, was delayed more than two years, did
not address all the required subjects and attained only 80% of its physical targets.
11.   As explained in detail in paragraph 26 below, SECTRA was substantially strengthened under the
project and successfully carried out all studies and the related technical assistance and training programs.
Although SECTRA was able to transfer to MINVU the implementation of the traffic management and public
transport civil works included in the project, it could not carry out, for reasons given in paragraph 9 above, the
bikeway subproject and was therefore unable to demonstrate the efficiency of this altemative public transport
mode. The working relationship between MINVU and SECTRA improved during project implementation, but
has still not reached a fully satisfactory level. Coordination with other agencies involved in the urban
transport sector and with public services is still weak.
12.   Environmental objectives. The objective of reducing air pollution in Santiago was achieved by
substantially expanding the urban street maintenance and paving programs. A notable expansion of the paving
program was possible through the adoption of lower-cost paving solutions as an attempt to reduce air pollution



- 4 -
caused by particulates in suspension originated by traffic over unpaved streets.  Reduction of traffic
congestion through improvement of traffic control and management also contributed to a reduction in air
pollution. Continuous measurements of air quality show clearly that, despite substantial traffic increases, the
level of air pollution is at present lower than five years ago.
13.   Economic results. Table 9 shows the summary results and the basic assumptions of the economic
analysis performed at appraisal by a Bank consultant. This analysis comprised MINVU's Street Maintenance
and Rehabilitation and the Traffic Management components (about 87% of project cost) and mainly
considered benefits derived from savings in vehicle operation costs (VOC). It yielded a combined Net Present
Value (NPV) of US$47.4 million for investments of US$118.9 million and an average Internal Economic Rate
of Retum (IERR) of 26.9%. The sensitivity analysis results were also satisfactory. An ex-post examination
was made of the cost parameters affecting the economic viability of the project, with the following results: (a)
the unit cost records established by MINVU during project implementation, starting with those used at
appraisal, show that actual maintenance costs in real terms were about 35% lower than those estimated at
appraisal; (b) labor costs for vehicle repair were higher; (c) fuel costs and vehicle and spare parts acquisition
costs remained fairly constant in real terms during project implementation; and (d) the actual rates of traffic
increase (7% per year between 1989 and 1995) were on the average higher than those used for appraisal
estimates (5%). The project did not call for the detailed monitoring of traffic flows by street category, which
could have provided the base date for a detailed economic re-evaluation.
14.    Since with poorly maintained streets vehicles need to be repaired more often, it follows that the project
reduced vehicle repair and operating costs; these cost savings were actually greater than anticipated because of
higher traffic demand. In sum, benefits were higher than calculated at appraisal whereas maintenance costs
were lower. Since there were no elements in the benefit-cost analysis that would have pushed the IERR below
the highly satisfactory 26.9% calculated at appraisal, it was concluded that the actual economic results of the
project were more favorable than those estimated at appraisal.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   There were no major changes in project scope or objectives. However, there were several factors that
affected project implementation. The main one was the decision of the 1990 incoming government to expand
SECTU's responsibilities from urban transport to general transport, change accordingly its name to SECTRA
and attach it to the Ministry of Planning. This decision was highly positive for the implementation of the
studies and technical assistance component of the project, but affected detrimentally the implementation of
related civil works (para 4). Implementation of the public transport related works was further affected by the
govermment's decisions to: (i) build a subway along the alignment originally chosen for the exclusive busway,
which resulted in a downgrading of the size and traffic density envisaged for the implementation of the pilot
exclusive busway project; and (ii) upgrade the existing ring road, which resulted in the cancellation of the pilot
bikeway project.
16.   During project implementation, the Chilean economy experienced a remarkable expansion, bringing an
unexpectedly strong flow of foreign currency into the country. These developments motivated the government
to restrain the inflow of additional foreign funds, which were encouraging domestic inflation. Simultaneously,
the govemment successfully carried out a reform of the intemal revenue system, which substantially increased
the availability of local funding and allowed the govemment to replace foreign with local financing. The
application of this macroeconomic policy to the project, coupled with an expansion of financing for the
infrastructure and social sectors, resulted in an increased availability of local funds for project implementation
and slower disbursements of loan proceeds. Since the implementation of the public transport civil works had
been delayed and the execution of the MINVU's street maintenance and rehabilitation program had
experienced a substantial expansion, the Bank and the Borrower agreed on December 2, 1993 on a loan



- 5 -
amendment to accelerate disbursements by reassigning funds among certain categories and extending the Loan
Closing Date from December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1995.
17.   Internal factors affecting project implementation were mainly decisions taken by MINVU to modify
the structure of its street paving program. In 1990 it carried out a study on low-cost alternatives for street
paving and implemented its recommendations in 1991, thereby increasing substantially the total surface of new
paving under the project with a major impact on the reduction of air pollution. By Decree 114 of 7/12/94,
MINVU initiated an innovative "participatory paving program," under which neighbors of low-income
communities and the respective municipalities would each contribute 14% toward the cost of residential streets
and alleys paving. The remainder was funded from MINVU's own resources, i.e. outside the loan. A special
methodology was developed to apply economic and social criteria to the selection of projects to be
implemented. Up to April 1996, about 2,100 operations had been implemented benefiting 67,700 dwellings by
paving 211 km of streets and 220 km of alleys. Execution of this program had a substantial social impact by
improving accessibility to low income dwellings.
D.    Project Sustainability
18.    Equitable judgment of the project's sustainability requires separate assessments of the MINVU and of
the SECTRA components. The institutional weaknesses of MINVU discussed in paragraph 10 above do not
guarantee satisfactory sustainability of its capacity to manage adequately the constantly expanding demand for
planning, design, construction and maintenance of the aging and growing urban street network in addition to
the execution of civil works required for the implementation of traffic management and alternative public
transport infrastructure. To ensure a satisfactory response to this challenge, MINVU should consider
following the example set by other Chilean public infrastructure agencies and implement a progressive transfer
of its countrywide responsibilities to the municipal and regional governments and to the private sector,
reducing its own role to regulatory, planning, monitoring and quality assurance functions. Sustainability of
the training program, which could have been an effective tool to achieve the above objective, is unlikely. The
organization of annual training courses stopped with project completion; funding proposed for the training
program was deleted from the 1996 budget.
19.    SECTRA's proven capacity to adjust to changing conditions and to meet successfully the challenge of
expanding responsibilities suggest a satisfactory sustainability of the project component managed by this
institution. The strong government commitment to strengthen transport infrastructure and to increase the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of urban transport has enhanced SECTRA's role in the sector and has helped
to support the consolidation of its technical and professional capacity, providing additional incentives to
support and expand the project's objectives and actions.
E.    Bank Performance
20.    Project Identification and Preparation: Satisfactory. During identification and preparation of the
project the Bank correctly selected, among many other agencies involved in the transport sector, the two most
likely to successfully implement the project. However, it failed to recognize the full extent of MINVU's
inherent weaknesses. The definition of objectives and the organization of the project into three subprojects, as
well as their respective content, were adequate for the political and institutional conditions at that time, and the
actions proposed to achieve the objectives and carry out the subprojects were correct.
21.    Project Appraisal: Satisfactory. Project appraisal properly identified most key arrangements needed
for successful project implementation. In hindsight it must be recognized that the requirement of creation of
adequately staffed urban road units at headquarters and in the regions should have been upgraded from key
indicator to a properly defined loan covenant. The appraisal mission was staffed with diversified skills



- 6 -
appropriate to the task. It effectively assisted the Borrower in strengthening the organization for project
implementation and initiating a closer collaboration between MINVU and SECTRA. The project design was
kept as simple as possible within the complexity of the Chilean urban transport sector. The schedule proposed
for the implementation of the studies, the technical assistance and the training was unrealistically ambitious
(Table 5). It did not foresee the delays to be brought about by MINVU's weakness and by the bunching of
too many SECTRA studies in the first two years of project implementation. Delays in the execution of civil
works produced by government decisions to modify SECTRA's scope of responsibilities, and to change the
assignment of priorities to two subprojects, could not have been foreseen during project preparation.
22.   Supervision:  Satisfactory. The Bank did provide considerable support to the Borrower during
project implementation. Fifteen supervision missions took place over the six-year implementation period.
However, most of the time spent in the field was devoted to discussing, analyzing and trying to overcome the
modifications in project concepts and frequent delays in execution of project components caused by the
circumstances described in paragraphs 24 through 26 below, leaving insufficient time for supervision of works
execution outside Santiago. The Bank's operational budget restrictions throughout project implementation
made it impossible for supervision missions to devote sufficient time for adequate review of works execution
and quality control in other urban areas.
F.    Borrower Performance
23.   Preparation of the Project: Satisfactory. During project preparation the government developed
progressively full commitment to the project objectives and took adequate measures to assist in project
preparation. While MINVU required assistance of Bank and independent consultants for the preparation of
technical aspects and of the economic and financial analyses, SECTRA was able to carry out project
preparation fully in-house.
24.   Project Implementation: Satisfactory. The government's successful macroeconomic performance
(para 15) was an important factor in ensuring continuity and satisfactory financing of project implementation,
allowing both agencies to exceed many of the physical targets agreed at negotiations. MINVU's sense of
ownership of the project diminished notably during project implementation. Its performance as administrator
of the project and as executing agency for its own component was less than satisfactory. The required creation
of Urban Roads Units at headquarters and in the regions was fulfilled only to a minimum extent. A unit was
created at headquarters with one year delay, but it was not staffed with the sufficient technical personnel
needed for efficient project execution. Since no road units were created at the regional level, the absence of
sufficient technical personnel fully committed to the project's objectives curtailed effective management of
project execution. Moreover, the central roads unit lacked direct authority over the road professionals working
in the regions, and the line of communications between them passed through higher MINVU administrative
levels, which, according to MINVU policies, assigned maximum priorities to the housing sector and to
regionalization of decision-making. The resulting weakness of communications and lack of countrywide
uniform reporting, accounting, and even contracting procedures made accurate monitoring of project
implementation extremely difficult. At least the central unit succeeded in establishing adequate management
of the diverse procedures used in different regions for procurement of smaller civil works, identified some
cases that did not comply with Bank guidelines and omitted them from Bank financing. Transmission of
quarterly progress reports, which was initially adequate, became progressively delayed until turning irrelevant
for satisfactory project supervision.
25.   The above-described difficulties in the line of communications and of authority, coupled with initial
lack of preparation of MINVU's Finance Department to manage loan disbursements, caused difficulties in the
establishment of satisfactory financial and accounting control of project expenditures. These shortcomings
were detected early on by the independent auditor, the Contraloria General de la Repuiblica, which repeatedly



submitted partially qualified reports. Some of the procedural or accounting errors incurred in 1991 and 1992
that caused these qualifications were corrected by the Finance Department only in October 1995, after much
prodding by the Bank. The 1995 audit report maintains its qualification of these errors and adds a new
qualification on a 1995 accounting error. Belated and partial execution of the training program prevented its
needed early impact on the capacity of MINVU's administrative and technical personnel. Training activities
started only in the third year of project implementation, did not cover all required subjects and were
discontinued in 1996. It must be recognized that, despite the above-described shortcomings, MINVU was able
to successfully carry out a complex and ambitious civil works program  substantially exceeding physical
targets agreed at appraisal. In addition, it independently took the initiative to design and implement innovative
actions such as the low-cost paving and participatory paving programs.
26.    SECTU-SECTRA, on the other hand, identified itself with the project objectives, exerted full
ownership of its two project components and deployed its best efforts to carry them out efficiently and in a
professional manner. With the support of local consultants hired under the technical assistance program, it
completed most studies agreed during negotiations and carried out a great number of additional studies which
are providing basic support for the further updating and development of urban transport and are contributing
to reduced congestion and pollution in urban areas. A well-developed program of technical visits abroad
inspired and supported the above achievements. The special circumstances described in paragraph 4 above,
which were not of SECTRA's responsibility, prevented it from carrying out the civil works related to
alternative public transport modes. According to its commitment to project objectives, SECTRA contributed
decisively to the efforts which finally led to the implementation of the traffic management and the exclusive
busway civil works by MINVU.
27.   All works were executed by local contractors, which performed in general satisfactorily. Most works
were completed to adequate standards and according to schedule. Only a few of the smaller contractors failed
to perform satisfactorily; MINVU took appropriate action to ensure adequate completion of works in these
cases.  Although foreign consultants were shortlisted for submission of proposals for studies, their
participation was negligible and all contracts were awarded to local consultants. Some contracts included
participation of foreign experts. Performance of all consultants was satisfactory.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
28.    Overall rating: Satisfactory. As discussed in the previous paragraphs, the project achieved and
exceeded most project objectives, but fell short on others and failed to achieve the objective of demonstrating
the efficiency of bikeways as an alternative transport mode. The economic indicators (NPVs and IERRs)
could not be confirmed, but it can be safely concluded that actual economic results of the project are more
favorable than those estimated at appraisal. Satisfactory sustainability of the MINVU project component is
not assured completely, while sustainability of the SECTRA component is highly satisfactory.
H.    Future Operations
29.    Because of the highly positive macroeconomic circumstances described in paragraph 16 above, the
government has advised the Bank that it no longer requires the Bank's financial assistance. Therefore, future
Bank collaboration in the urban transport sector, if any, may be restricted to technical assistance.
Nevertheless, both MINVU and SECTRA, at the Bank's request, have formulated general operation plans for
the future, which would help ensuring the project's economic, social and environmental sustainability.
MINVU's plan considers: (i) further expansion and diversification of the urban street maintenance,
rehabilitation and paving program; (ii) improvement of quality control of execution of works, including, in
particular, development and implementation of five-year contracts for maintenance of specific urban street
networks to be monitored for compliance with quality standards; (iii) increased participation of owners and



- 8 -
municipalities in the financing of street maintenance and upgrading schemes, including further strengthening of
the participatory paving program; (iv) increased efficiency of urban street investment management by
modifying and improving the procedures for preparation, formulation, approval and implementation of urban
street investment budgets; and (v) increased investment in traffic management projects to facilitate and
prioritize public transport.
30.    Based on the experience gained during project implementation, SECTRA's operation plan for the
future considers several programs to be applied mainly to the metropolitan areas of Santiago, Valparaiso and
Concepci6n: (i) implementation of specific exclusive busway projects (seven in Santiago and one each in
Valparaiso and Concepci6n); (ii) use of existing railways for commuter services; (iii) development of BOT
schemes for high-traffic urban transport corridors; (iv) development of an integrated automatic toll system to
be used in urban BOT projects as well as in road pricing schemes for reduction of traffic congestion; (v)
consolidation of the street network in urban areas and further strengthening of maintenance programs; and
(vi) formulation of policies to improve land use and more efficient coordination of urban transport modes.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
31.    The above analysis of project implementation suggests that the main lessons to be leamed from this
project are:
--  Availability of sufficient financial resources for satisfactory implementation of a project can be ensured
through favorable macroeconomic conditions, sound macroeconomic policies and adequate sectoral
allocation of budget resources.
-  Satisfactory project implementation is fundamentally determined by adequate project design, which should
be kept as simple as possible within the complexities of the sector and of the project objectives.
-  Inherent institutional weaknesses identified during project preparation should be dealt with not only by
requiring fulfillment of action plans and key indicators, but also by establishing well-designed and clearly
formulated loan covenants.
e  Following modem trends of other Chilean public infrastructure agencies, MINVU should seriously
consider implementation of a progressive transfer of its countrywide responsibilities to the municipal and
regional governments and to the private sector, reducing its own role to regulatory, planning, monitoring
and quality assurance functions.
*  Scheduling of implementation of civil works, studies and technical assistance should not be unrealistically
ambitious and should take due consideration of the executing agency's implementation capacity.
*  The importance of project ownership by the government and by implementing agencies cannot be over-
emphasized, as clearly shown in this case, where the government's and SECTRA's ownership remained
constant, whereas MINVU's ownership diminished progressively during project execution.
*  Delays in project implementation caused by the restructuring of government functions, such as occurred
with SECTRA, should be dealt with rapidly to maintain continuity in project implementation and ensure
achievement of important project objectives.
*  In addition to the performance of tasks related to general project administration and problem-solving,
planning and budgeting of supervision missions should provide sufficient time in the field to allow
adequate supervision and quality control of works execution.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
URBAN STREETS AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3028-CH)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES






- 9 -
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial     Partial       Nealiaible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                             D           L I 1
Sector policies                                    N               D 0    
Financial objectives                  N            LI              LI          LI
Institutional development             LI           N               LI          LI
Physical objectives                                N               L           LI [
Poverty reduction                     0I           L               O 
Gender concerns                                    LI 0            0
Other social objectives                                            L           L 0  I
Environmental objectives              L            N               L           L
Public sector management                                           LI          LI
Private sector development                                         LI          LI
Other (specify)                                    LI              LI          LI
B. Proiect sustainability         Likely             Unlikelv          Uncertain
MINVU                                 0I                 LI
SECTRA                                                   L                L I
C. Bank performance          Highly Satisfactorv     Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                        NL 0I
Preparation assistance                                    I               L I
Appraisal                             L]                                    I 
Supervision                                                                D V  C
D. Borrower Performance      Hiahly Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                          [I                                   LI
Implementation                                           N                LI
Covenant compliance                   D1 xi
E. Assessment of outcome    Hiahly Satisfactorv      Satisfactorv      Deficient
LI                 N



- 10-
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title   Purpose               Yearof       Amount       Year of     Information
Approval      US$ M       closing       source
Preceding Operations
1927-CH     Highway                  1980          42          1984      PAR(12983)a
Reconstruction
Project
2297-CH      Second Highway          1983         128          1990      PAR(12983)2
Reconstruction
Project
2589-CH     Road Sector              1985         140          1990      PAR(12983)a
Project
2482-CH      Public Sector           1984          80          1988       PAR(1 0448)
Housing Project
Parallel Operations
3030-CH     Second Housing           1989         200          1993      PAR(14801)
Sector Project
3120-CH     Second Road              1989         224          1994      ICR(15146)
Sector Project
Following Operations
3426-CH     Transport                1992          71          1999      SAR 9846-CH
Infrastructure
Project
3833-CH     Third Road               1994         120          1999     SAR 12159-CH
Sector Project
a) Consolidated Project Audit Report for the three projects



- 11 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                      Date planned            Date actual
Identification - Preparation                    04/87                05/07/87
Initial executive project summary               06/87                06/16/87
Preappraisal                                    04/88                05/13/88
Final executive project summary                 07/88                08/26/88
Appraisal                                     09/12/88               09/12/88
Negotiations                                    01/89                01/31/89
Board Presentation                            03/31/89               03/21/89
Signing                                         05/89                05/12/89
Effectiveness                                   08/89                09/07/89
Project completion                            06/30/94               12/31/95
Loan closing                                  12/31/94               12/31/95
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimate             21       39      55      66      73      75
Actual                          15     25       39      56      61      69      74
Actual as % of estimate        71      64       71      85      84      92      99
Date of final disbursement   March 26, 1996



- 12-
TABLE 5: Project Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR AND SEMESTER
1988    1989    1990  11991  1992   11993    1994  1995
COMPONENTS                                1  2    1  2    1  2    1  2    1 |2    1  2    1  2    1  2
MINVU SUBPROJECT
Maintenance
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .L  ......    .,:,,,,___
Rehabilitation
=     _    _   YY  '  'Y - -T-t- Y 2  ,,I......=.  .......T.......I.......I..... . .......l
Paving
Training Study                                 was orrieut
Training Activities
Maintenance / Rehabilitation Studies
Training Evaluation Studies                                      wasnot ;arri ou_
Maintenance Advisor                             was not c ntra ted
PUBLIC TRANSPORT SUBPROJECT
Concepcion U.T. Study
Santiago U.T. Study
Pilot Bus/Tramway
Bus/Tramway Evaluation                                           is bein ca i olu  
Training
TSM SUBPROJECT
Traffic Management                     _| 
Bus Priority
Pilot Bikeway                           _                           ngir | |rit  g
Bikeway Evaluation                                          was not c rriei out
Technical Assistance                    _       |=                                       _
Estimation Staff Appraisal Report
Actual



- 13 -
TABLE 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Physical Targets
Key Indicators           Unit        Appraisal      Actual              Comments
MINVU Subprolect
- Investment in street paving,  US$M           124           283      Additional expenditures of
rehabilitation and                                                  US$55 million under IDB
maintenance                                                         Loan 559-OG -CH
- Maintenance                 m2 (000)        2911          26.649    Compliance 915%
- Rehabilitation              m2 (000)        4743          1.290    Compliance 27% including
rehabilitation financed by IDB
- Paving                      m2 (000)        1480          6101      Compliance 412%
- Training Study             % complete  100% in 1989         0       Was not carried out
- Training Activities        % complete  100% in 1991   80% in 1995 Comprised 15 courses
with 240 participants
- Maintenance/Rehabilitation    % complete  100% in 1993  85% in 1995 Much delay, some still missing
Studies
- Training Evaluation        % complete  100% in 1993         0       Was not carried out
Public Transport
Subproiect
- Urban Transport Studies
Santiago                   % complete  100% in 1990  95% in 1995
Concepci6n                 % complete  100% in 1991  100% in 1995
Valparaiso                 % complete                 100% in 1995 Added to Program
- Pilot Bus/Tramway          % complete  100% in 1991  100% in 1995 A much smaller project was
executed
- Bus/Tramway Evaluation     % complete  100% in 1992                 In process
- Training                   % complete  100% in 1991  100% in 1995
Traffic Management
Subprolect
Traffic Management         % complete  100% in 1991   64% in 1995
Bus Priority               % complete  100% in 1990  57% in 1996
Pilot Bikeway              % complete  100% in 1990         0       Was not carried out
Bikeway Evaluation         % complete  100% in 1991         0       Was not carried out
Technical Assistance       % complete  100% in 1991  100% in 1995



-14-
TABLE 6B: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Institutional Monitoring
Key Indicators           Unit        Appraisal         Actual              Comments
MINVU Subproiect
1. Improve Focus on Road
Maintenance/Rehabilitation
- Creation of specialized units   % complete   100% in 1990  20% in 1990   A weak unit was created at
at headquarters and in all                                               headquarters, none in the
regions                                                                  regions
- Assignment of appropriate  % complete   100% in 1990      50% in 1992   Existing personnel was
professionals to posts                                                  reassigned, none was hired
- Adequatly funded              US$M            44              97        Compliance 220%
maintenance budget
2. Improve Quality of
Service Provided
- Professionals attending   Professionals       300             240       Compliance 80%
training courses
3. Improve Planning of
Program
- Preparation of Annual        Number            4               6        Compliance 150%
Investment Program
- Introduction of pavement/  % complete   100% in 1991    100% in 1992  Execution of surveys
maintenance management                                                   still in process
systems in each Region
SECTU-SECTRA Subproiect
1. Improve Delivery of Urban
Transport Services
- Development of urban       % complete   100% in 1991    100% in 1995
transport policy recommen-
dations
- Physical presence and       completed    Santiago 1990    Santiago 1990
funding of professionals                 Valparaiso 1991  Valparaiso 1995
Concepci6n 1991 Concepci6n 1996
- Study tours to other       Participants        9              39        Compliance 433%
countries



- 15 -
TABLE 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at appraisal     Cost   Impact of study
or when incorporated              US$ 000
MINVU Subproject                                           1.750
1. Maintenance of the  Development of a maintenance         201     Allowed development of the five-year
urban street network   planning and evaluation tool.                maintenance and rehabilitation
program.
2. Research on urban   Evaluation of urban street roughness.  21    Introduced the use of the simple
street roughness       Development of an adequate                   MERLIN equipment for measurement
roughness measurement tool.                 of street roughness.
3. Axle load profile of    Research of axle load charac- teristics  73  Established axle load profiles in three
urban streets          of urban traffic.                            pilot cities.
4. Development of Urban  Design of a simplified Urban       133    Designed the simplified SAMPU system
Pavement Management   Pavement Management System.                   and introduced it in all regions.
System
5. Analysis of         Design of a system to define, evaluate  31   Creation of the SANCO system,
maintenance costs      and update urban street maintenance          development of a Cost Data Bank being
costs.                                      continuously updated.
6. Low-cost paving     Research on need for low-cost paving  68     Developed an adequate program for
alternatives           alternatives and development of most         execution of low-cost pavements.
adequate solutions.
7. Diagnosis of eight  Provide basic data for preparation of  480    Preparation of maintenance program for
urban street networks  street network maintenance                   six regions and two major
programs.                                   municipalities in the metropolitan area.
8. Redesign of pilot   Simplification and cost reduction of  97     Modified design was completed, but
bikeway                original design.                             works were not executed.
9. Five programs for   Provide basic data for and prepare   377    Preparation of maintenance programs
maintenance of urban   street network maintenance                   for five regions.
street networks        programs.
10. Four training      Execution of annual training         269    Execution of four annual training
programs               programs to upgrade MINVU's                  programs comprising 14 courses with a
technical personnel.                        total of 240 participants.



- 16 -
TABLE 7: Studies Included in Project (continuation)
Study                   Purpose as defined at ppraisal      Cost    Impact of study
or when incorporated             US$ 000
Public Transport                                             5109
1. Segregated mass      Investigate less expensive            99      Demonstrated benefits of exclusive
transport lanes.         alternatives for mass transport.             busways.
2. Six general transport    Provide basic information for    1820    Provision of data on traffic counts,
studies                 transport management.                         Origin and Destination Surveys,
justification of Traffic Regulation and
updating of Design Manual.
3. Six Studies of transport  Upgrading of existing models and  2.150    Updating and expansion of the model
planning models          development of new models.                  for Santiago and development of the
Valparaiso model.
4. Four Studies for      Review of street design and         954      Preparation of projects for improvement
improvement of transport  upgrading and coordination of               of traffic conditions along four
corridors               traffic signalization.                        corridors.
5. Training abroad       Participation of traffic planners in  86     Provided inputs for further
courses and seminars abroad linked           development.
with technical visits.
Traffic Management                                          3.903
1. Bikeway design       Design of a 8 Km bikeway.            69      Proposed design was too expensive, was
subject to later redesign.
2. Bus-priority lanes    Determine benefits of and design     92     Identified several eligible avenues.
bus priority lanes along specific            Original Av. Grecia design was turned
main avenues.                               into an exclusive busway.
3. Three Signalization   Improve traffic control of a specific  944   Improved traffic control in high traffic
design studies including    high-density urban area.                  density areas.
provision of signals
4. Study and execution   Study and execution of a pilot      2108    Improved traffic control in a high traffic
of a pilot traffic control    traffic control project and later       density area including six main avenues
project                  evaluation of its results.                   and 72 signals.
5. Three Traffic control    Improve traffic control of specific  690  Established general guidelines for such
studies in specific areas    urban areas based on experience of       projects and developed three specific
(4) above.                                   projects involving 120 signals.



- 17 -
TABLE 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual US$M
Subproject and Component         Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Variation
Costs I Costs         Costs  Costs         Percentage
MINVU Street Maintenance           61.7  61.6  123.3  140.2  142.5 282.7        +129
and Rehabilitation
1. System Development including     2.1   0.9    3.0    0.8    0.3   1.1         -61
Technical Assistance and Training
2. Maintenance and Rehabilitation  59.5  60.5  120.0  139.4  142.1 281.5        +135
3. Equipment                        0.1   0.2    0.3         -    0.1   0.1      -69
Public Transport                    6.7   6.6   13.3    6.6    5.8  12.4          -7
1. Segregated Bus/Tram Ways         5.1   5.6   10.7    3.6    3.8   7.4         -31
2. Technical Assistance and Training  1.6   1.0    2.6    3.0   2.0   5.0        +89
Traffic Management                  6.6   6.8   13.4    7.0   6.1  13.1           -2
1. Traffic Management               5.2   5.7   10.9    5.0    5.4  10.4          -4
2. Pilot Bikeway                    1.0   0.9    1.9    0.1         -   0.1      -96
3. Technical Assistance and Training  0.4   0.2    0.6    1.9    0.7   2.6      +380
Total Cost                         75.0  75.0  150.0  153.8  154.4 308.2        +105
TABLE 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual (US$M)
Local Foreign  Total  Partici-  Local Foreign Total  Partici-
Source                   Costs  Costs          pation %  Costs  Costs        pation %
IBRD                          -   75.0  75.0   50.0          -   74.0  74.0      24.0
Government                  75.0      -  75.0   50.0  153.8   80.4 234.3         76.0
Total                       75.0   75.0  150.0  100.0  153.8  154.4 308.2    100.0



- 18 -
TABLE 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
1. Annex 8 of the SAR shows the following table of the Summary Results of the Economic
Evaluation
Project Component             Market Cost a      NPV b, c       B/C d       rERRd
(US$M)           (12%)         (12%)          %
MINVU Street Maintenance and     109.0             38.7          1.6          25.4
Rehabilitation
Traffic Management                9.9              8.7           2.0          43.7
Total or Average                118.9             47.4           1.6          26.9
a) Base cost plus physical contingencies
b) Based on samples described in text
c) Economic prices
d) Weighted by investment cost
2. The above economic evaluations for the MINVU Street Maintenance and Rehabilitation and
for the Traffic Management components (87% of project costs) were performed at appraisal by
a Bank consultant. Economnic prices included physical contingencies, and excluded price
contingencies, domestic taxes and direct import duties. Shadow prices were used for unskilled
labor costs of civil works (0.5) and for direct foreign exchange costs (1.13)
3. According to the summary presentation in Annex 8 of the SAR, the benefits of the MINVU
Street Maintenance and Rehabilitation component consisted of savings in vehicle operating
costs (VOC) and in postponed major investment in rehabilitation. The associated costs are the
higher maintenance expenditures. The methodology developed for the analysis was applied in
three pilot cities. The benefits of the Traffic Management component consisted of VOC saving
due to faster and more uniform traffic flows. The calculations assumed a five-year useful life
and zero residue value. To that extent, the economic returns were understated. The sensitivity
of the calculations for a 20% increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits were acceptable.
4. As stated in Annex 8 of the SAR, the feasibility studies and the details of the economic
evaluation were documented in a working paper. As this working paper could not be found
either in the Bank's or in the Borrower's files, the calculations cannot be confirmed.
Nevertheless, unit cost records established by MINVU during project implementation, starting
with those used at appraisal, show clearly that: (a) actual maintenance costs in real terms were
35% lower than those estimated at appraisal; (b) labor costs for vehicle repair were higher; (c)
fuel costs and vehicle and spare parts acquisition cost remained fairly constant in real terms
during project implementation; and (d) actual traffic increase rates (7% per year between 1989
and 1995) were higher than those used for appraisal estimates (5%). Since with poorly
maintained streets vehicles need to be repaired more often, it follows that the project reduced
vehicle repair and operating costs; these cost savings were actually greater than anticipated
because of higher traffic demand. In sum, benefits were higher than calculated at appraisal
whereas maintenance costs were lower. Since there were no elements in the benefit-cost
analysis that would have pushed the IERR below the highly satisfactory 26.9% calculated at
appraisal, it was concluded that the actual economic results of the project were more favorable
than those estimated at appraisal.



- 19 -
TABLE 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section      Covenant2        Present 3
type           status                 Description                       Comments
2.02(b)           I               C         Open and maintain special Account
in Central Bank
2.04            2               C         Payment of Commitment Charge
2.05(a)           2               C         Payment of interest                              _        
2.07            2               C         Repayment of Principal
3.01(a)           5              CP        Carry out project with due diligence    Several components were not
& efficiency                      carried out
3.02            2               C         Full cost recovery in Transportation                              l
Sector
3.03(a)          5                C        Prepare Urban Streets Maintenance
Program before November 1 of each
year
3.03(b)           5               C         Prepare satisfactory Urban Streets
Improvement Program before
December 31 of each year
3.03(c)          2               C         Increase Urban Streets Maintenance   There was a 10% shortfall in
Program every year to reach        1990. Program for 1991 was on
US$13.5M in 1993 & US$14M each  target. Programs for 1992 through
year thereafter                    1995 were far above original
targets.
3.03(d)           5              CP        Adequate maintenance of investment  Urban road maintenance has
including equipment               improved but should be improved
further.
3.04            9               NC        Progress Reports                   Transmission of quarterly reports
was progressively delayed until
they became irrelevant for project
supervision
3.06            10              CD        Studies under the Project          Implementation of studies was
delayed, but most were finally
carried out.
3.07            10              CD        Satisfactory completion of part l(a)   Implementation of the system in
of Project (Urban Street Pavement  all regions was delayed by one
and Maintenance Management        year.
System in each region) not later than
1 year from Effective Date
3.08            10              C         Procurement as described in
Schedule 4



- 20 -
TABLE 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Continuation)
Section      Covenant 2      Present 3
type           status                Description                      Comments
4.01(a)          1               C        Maintenance of records
4.01(b)          I               C        Auditing requirement               1994 Report was received with
some qualifications. MINVU
corrected existing observations in
October 1995, but Audit Report
for 1995 maintained its
qualification.
5.01(a)          10              C        Acquisition of land               Complied with.
5.01(b)          7              n/a       Resettlement of population        No population was displaced by
project.
1) Loan Agreement
2) Covenant type:
I = Accounts/audits                    8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/revenue       9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
generation from beneficiaries           reporting
3 = flow and utilization of            10 = Project implementation not covered by
project funds                          categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5 = Management aspects of the              other resources
project or executing agency        12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Enviromnental covenants                policy/regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement           13 = Other
3) Present Status:
C  = covenant complied with           CP  = complied with partially
CD = complied with after delay        NC    not complied with
n/a = not applicable



- 21 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project            Planned                     Revised a                    Actual
cycle             Weeks        US$(000)       Weeks       US$(000)       Weeks       US$(000)
Preparation to
appraisal                    n/a           n/a          n/a           n/a         46.2         76.8
Appraisal to
Board approval               n/a           n/a          n/a           n/a         28.3         45.0
Supervision                  37           11.8          17.7         43.5         64.3         176.6
Completion                   7.0          7.0           4.2           9.7      -iO5:OF-         200b
Total                                                                            148.8         318.4
a) original and revised plan data available for FY94-96 only.
b) Input for completion estimated until approval of ICR in FY97.
TABLE 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                 Number    Days    Specialized                                    Types
Project       Month/    of           in       Staff skills         Performancer g         of
cycle         year        persons    field    represented      Implementa-   Develop.   Problems
l ___________   I   ________   J   _________  _______  _____________   tion   status   j    Imtion     status  Im pact
Through appraisal
Identification  05/87         1         6           En               -             -
Preparation     09/87         3         7         Ec, 2En            -
01/88        3         10        2En, F.A            -
Preappraisal    04/88         5         13      Ec, 3En, F.A         -
Appraisal       08/88         3         22       2En, Tr.S           -
l___________    09/88         4         12      Ec, 2En, F.A          -
Supervision
Supervision     10/89         3         4         Ec, 2En            1             1
01/90        1         3            En               1            1              -
05/90        2         6          Ec, En            2             1     |
08/90        3         5        Ec,En,Tr.S          2             1        Fin,Proc,Train
11/90        1         4           En               2             2        Fin,Proc,Train
04/91        1         5           En               2             2        Fin,Proc,Train
09/91        1         5            En              2             2        Fin,Proc,Train
02/92        1         6            En              2             2          Fin,Train
07/92        2         5          Ec, En            2             2           general
04/93        1         5           En               2             2           general
10/93        2         5          Ec, En            2             2           general
07/94        2         4           2En              2             3           general
10/94        1         3           En               S             S           general
05/95        1         2            En              S             S           general
08/95        1         5            En              S             S           general



I



REPUBLICA DE CHILE
MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO
DIVISION DE DESARROLLO URBANO
DEPARTAMENTO DE VIALIDAD URBANA
COMISION DE PLANIFICACION DE INVERSIONES
EN INFRAESTRUCTURA DE TRANSPORTE
SECRETARIA EJECUTIVA
PROYECTO DE VIALIDAD Y TRANSPORTE URBANO
PRESTAMO BIRF  No 3028 - CH
INFORME FINAL
NO VIEMBRE 1996






MINISTERIO DE VtVIENDA Y URBANISMO
DDU . DEPTO. OE VIALIDAD URBANA
PROYECTO DE VIALIDAD Y TRANSPORTE URBANO
INFORME FINAL
Introducci6n
El Contrato de Prestamo N 3028 - CH suscrito entre el Banco Mundial y la
Repu3blica de Chile el 12 de Mayo de 1989, consultaba un cr6dito por 75
Millones de D61ares destinado a financiar un Programa de Vialidad y Transporte
Urbano.
La administraci6n del citado Programa fue muy exitosa, ya que como se vera
en el desarrollo del Informe, se utiliz6 un 99% de los recursos externbs
asignados al Programa, siendo el aporte local sustantivamente superior al
estimado en el Staff Appraisal Report.
Por otra parte, se lograron importantes avances en el conocimiento y aplicaci6n
al caso chileno de materias relacionadas con la vialidad y el transporte urbano,
a traves de la realizaci6n de una serie de estudios que Ilev6 'a cabo la
consultarfa chilena bajo la direcci6n de profesionales del Ministerio de Vivienda
y Urbanismo y de SECTRA.
Cabe destacar como otro de los logros del Proyecto, la capacitaci6n de los
funcionarios relacionados con el tema, la cual se llevo a cabo en ambas
instituciones prestatarias elevando en forma apreciable el nivel tecnico de los
profesionales que laboran en las areas de vialidad y transporte urbano en todo
el pais.
En cuanto a las obras, en el Subproyecto de Mantenimiento y Rehabilitaci6n
de calles urbanas del MINVU en general se superaron con creces las metas
fisicas, excepto en la linea de Rehabilitaci6n, que fue abordada con mayor
intensidad bajo el Programa de Mejoramiento de la Infraestructura Vial Urbana,
financiado parcialmente con credito BID NO 559/OC-CH. En el Subproyecto de
Transporte Publico no fue posible, por decisiones tomadas por el Supremo
Gobierno,. ejecutar la obra que se tenia planificada y por ultimo, en el
Subproyecto de Gesti6n de TrMfico se realizaron importantes obras en la Regi6n
Metropolitana y en la Vill Regi6n, tendientes a lograr una mayor eficiencia de
los sistemas de transporte urbano y a priorizar el transporte publico.



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO                                            2
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
En cuanto a las categorias de Bienes y de Diseno y Supervisi6n de Obras, si
bien no se alcanzaron los niveles de desembolsos provenientes del Banco
Mundial originalmente planteados, se logr6 la adquisici6n de equipos
computacionales de gran utilidad para el desarrollo de  los programas
financiados con el Credito y la contrataci6n de consultores que apoyaron de
manera importante la labor efectuada por los funcionarios del Sector Vivienda
y Urbanismo y de SECTRA.
Teniendo en consideraci6n que el Credito fue otorgado para desarrollar
programas en dos instituciones, se ha estructurado el presente informe en dos
partes, la primera correspondiente al Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo
(MINVU) y la segunda correspondiente a la Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comisi6n
de Planificaci6n de Inversiones en lnfraestructura de Transportes (SECTRA).



i
PAR TE MIINVU






MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO                                           3
DDU DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA                                                3
1.-   Analisis de los obietivos del Proyecto
En el Staff Appraisal Report se plantearon los siguientes objetivos del proyecto:
a)    Fortalecer las capacidades institucionales para planificar y mantener el Sistema
de Transporte Urbano en Chile con un costo eficiente.
b)    Preservar y mantener la inversi6n nacional en infraestructura de vias urbanas.
c)    Facilitar la integraci6n de los elementos de transporte urbano, con el objetivo
de reducir la congesti6n y poluci6n del aire.
d)    Demostrar la eficiencia de los modos alternativos de transporte pu5blico,
incluyendo ciclovfas.
En lo que se refiere al primer objetivo, en el Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo,
por decisi6n del gobierno democratico que asumi6 en Marzo de 1990, se
redistribuy6 las responsabilidades para la ejecuci6n del Prestamo, eliminando
la Oficina Coordinadora de Creditos Externos y ubicando la responsabilidad
administrativa y tecnica del Proyecto de Vialidad y Transporte Urbano en la
Divisi6n de Desarrollo Urbano y la responsabilidad financiera y de desembolsos,
en la Divisi6n de Finanzas. En la Divisi6n de Desarrollo Urbano se cre6 el
Departamento de Vialidad Urbana, el cual asumi6 entre otras, la tarea de
coordinador para la ejecuci6n del Prestamo.
Debido a la escasez de profesionales en el MINVU capacitados para desarrollar
las labores asignadas al Departamento de Vialidad Urbana y a las limitaciones
presupuestarias, no fue posible reforzar el mencionado Departamento en la
forma que hubiese sido deseable para abordar mas integralmente los objetivos
planteados en el Proyecto.
No obstante, con el escaso personal disponible se trabaj6 arduamente para
cumplir con las metas de administraci6n de un presupuesto de inversi6n en
obras de pavimentaci6n urbana que fue creciendo anio tras anio, pasando de
18,7 millones de d6lares en 1990 a 76,4 millones de d6lares en 1995 (ver
complemento Tabla No 5). A esto habrfa que agregar lo invertido en obras de
vialidad urbana que pas6 de 8,5 millones de d6lares en 1990 a 40,4 millones
de d6lares en 1995.
Respecto de las oficinas regionales del MINVU, tampoco fue posible la
contrataci6n de mas personal, por lo cual se adopt6 la politica de asignar mayor
dedicacion a los temas viales por parte de los profesionales existentes en
SEREMI y SERVIU.
La contrataci6n de estudios, de asesorias tecnicas y de cuatro programas de
capacitaci6n, permitieron en alguna medida fortalecer la capacidad institucional



MINISTERIO OE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO                                           4
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
del Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto. No
obstante es necesario, reconocer que se requiere reforzar tanto la instancia
central como las instancias regionales en forma permanente, como asimismo,
proporcionar la infraestructura de apoyo adecuada a los actuales niveles de
exigencia.
Respecto del segundo objetivo del proyecto, gran parte de los esfuerzos
desplegados por el MINVU estuvieron destinados. a preservar y mantener la
inversion en infraestrucura vial urbana, elevandose 8 vepes la cantidad de obras
ejecutadas en mantenimiento entre 1989 y 1995 (Ver tabla N 6). Ademas de
lo anterior, se elabor6 una metodologia para evaluar la rentabilidad de los
proyectos de mantenimiento y se disefn un sistema computacional (SAMPU)
que permite a partir de los diagn6sticos viales, elaborar los programas de
inversiones mas eficientes desde el punto de vista social. Paralelamente se
desarrollaron otros estudios destinados a perfeccionar la medici6n de algunas
variables claves para el procesamiento de la informaci6n requerida por el
programa SAMPU. (Ver Tabla N' 7).
En lo que se refiere al tercer y cuarto objetivo, como se vera mas adelante, a
traves de los subprogramas de Gesti6n de Transito y de Transporte P1ublico a
cargo de SECTRA, se abordaron una serie de tareas relacionadas con los
referidos objetivos.



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
2.-   Logro de los objetivos del Provecto.
Se obtuvo un exito sustancial en ejecutar los principales objetivos del Proyecto,
seg6n se vera mas adelante.
En cuanto a las politicas macroecon6micas, se esta logrando internalizar los
costos de construcci6n de las vias locales dentro de los costos que debe asumir
el sector privado. El deficit hist6rico de pavimentos en zonas poblacionales se
esta reduciendo con aportes directos de los beneficiarios y de los municipios
mediante la implementaci6n del Programa de Pavimentos Participativos, el cual
ha tenido una excelente acogida a nivel nacional.
Referente a las politicas del Sector Transporte, se ha tenido gran exito en la
meta de resguardar la inversi6n en infraestructura vial urbana, ya que como se
puede apreciar en la Tabla N 6, se increment6 fuertemente la cantidad de
obras ejecutadas y la inversi6n pas6 de 10 millones de d6lares en 1990 a 21
millones de d6lares en 1995 en proyectos de mantenimiento vial por parte del
Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo.
En relacion a los objetivos fisicos del Proyecto se sobrepasaron con creces las
metas establecidas en las negociaciones en lo que se refiere a m2 construidos
de obras de mantenimiento y pavimentaci6n, no asi en lo que respecta a
rehabilitaci6n, lo cual se debe como se explic6, a que esta linea fue abordada
prioritariamente bajo otro Programa.
Con resperto a los. objetivos financieros del Proyecto, en lo que se refiere al
Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, estos se superaron en forma importante,
ya que de una inversi6n estimada de 102,1 millones de d6lares, establecida en
el Appraisal, se lleg6 a una inversi6n real de 282,8 millones de d6lares, es decir
un 276,9% superior (ver tabla N 8 A).
En cuanto al desarrollo institucional que tenfa como objetivo aumentar la
eficiencia en la forma de operar de los servicios, este se logr6 solo en parte.
Las fuertes restricciones presupuestarias en el gasto corriente que afectan al
Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo no permitieron contratar nuevos
profesionales ni en el nivel central ni en las SEREMI y SERVIU, como tampoco
aumentar los recursos f[sicos necesarios para desarrollar las labores
correspondientes. Con todo, se tuvo exito en administrar un volumen de
inversi6n creciente, en contratar y supervisar una gran cantidad de estudios
(ver Tabla N 7) y en Ilevar a cabo cuatro programas de capacitaci6n ademas
de algunos cursos asociados a estudios especificos.



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA                                             6
3.-   PrinciDales factores que afectaron el Proyecto.
Durante la ejecucion del Proyecto se produjo en el pals un cambio politico
importante, Io que se tradujo en el campo de la Vialidad y el Transporte Urbano
en  la adopci6n de nuevos enfoques que afectaron en cierto modo el
cumplimiento de las metas de los Subprogramas, al existir nuevas prioridades.
En raz6n de lo anterior, se acord6 modificar el Convenio de Prestamo, en primer
termino para posibilitar la ejecuci6n de los proyectos de Gesti6n de Transito a
traves de los SERVIU de las regiones en que se contemplaban obras, y en
segundo termino, para reasignar recursos entre categorias, permitiendo asf
acelerar los desembolsos. Lo senialado fue propuesto al Banco en Ayuda
Memoria de Noviembre de 1993 y acordado en Febrero de 1994. Por otra
parte, se pospuso la fecha de cierre del Prestamo desde el 31 de Diciembre de
1994 al 31 de Diciembre de 1995.
A las obras del Subprograma de Mantenimiento y Rehabilitaci6n de calles
Urbanas, a cargo del MINVU, se le asignaron 10 millones de d6lares adicionales
par parte del BIRF, los cuales fueron utilizados en su totalidad y auin mas, se
emplearon 3,5 millones de d6lares adicionales (Ver Tabla N 8-B Complemento).
Lo anterior debido al fuerte incremento que experiment6 la inversi6n en
proyectos de mantenimiento y pavimentaci6n nueva.
Respecto de los estudios, la asistencia tecnica y la capacitaci6n no fue posible
cumplir las metas de inversi6n establecidas en el Appraisal, debido
principalmente a la extensa tramitaci6n que se debe efectuar para contratar
este tipo de tareas, tanto por parte del Banco Mundial como por parte del
Estado Chileno.
En cuanto al Equipamiento, las restricciones presupuestarias que afectan al
MINVU no hicieron posible alcanzar los montos de inversi6n que se habian
definido en las negociaciones del credito. Sin embargo, cabe destacar que con
gran esfuerzo se logr6 adquirir equipos computaciones para la operacion del
Sistema SAMPU a nivel de todo el pais, lograndose la instalaci6n del mismo y
la capacitaci6n de los profesionales designados para abordar su aplicaci6n.



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO                                          7
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
4.-   Sustentabilidad del Provecto
En lo que se refiere a los programas de obras viales urbanas, a cargo del
Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, la sustentabilidad de los mismos se
encuentra completamente asegurada (Ver Tabla N 9).
El anterior y el actual Gobierno han otorgado prioridad a la inversi6n en
infraestructura, en atenci6n a los niveles de desarrollo econ6mico que ha
alcanzado el pais. Dentro de este marco, la inversi6n en infraestructura vial
urbana se ha visto fuertemente incrementada desde el aflo 1990 en adelante,
como se senial6 en el punto 1 del presente informe.
Por otra parte, cabe seuialar que el MINVU ha incorporado una nueva linea de
inversion en su presupuesto, que es la referida a los proyectos de Gesti6n de
Transito, lo cual esta asegurando la sustentabilidad de otro Subprograma del
Credito, originalmente a cargo de SECTRA.
Sin embargo, es necesario hacer'notar que se reconoce la necesidad de reforzar
profesionalmente tanto el nivel central como regional del Sector Vivienda y
Urbanismo a fin de poder responder en mejor forma a los nuevos desafios,
como tambien continuar con la capacitaci6n del personal y dotar al Servicio
con la infraestructura de apoyo necesaria.
En cuanto al Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento de Pavimentos
Urbanos, disefnado durante el Proyecto, se estima que se continuara elaborando
las bases de datos y los programas de inversiones en las regiones del pals que
auin no los han desarrollado y se iran cubriendo cada vez mas ciudades, en las
que ya han avanzado en el proceso.
Paralelamente se esta intentando poner en practica contratos de mantenimiento
de vias urbanas de largo plazo, de modo lograr una mejor calidad de las obras,
una mayor regularidad en su ejecuci6n y menores costos unitarios.



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
5.-   DesemDefio del Banco.
La evaluaci6n que efectu6 el Banco de la situaci6n del Sector Transporte
Urbano en el anio 1988 fue acertada. Lo mismo, la selecci6n de las entidades
con mayor capacidad institucional para poner en marcha el Proyecto. Sin
embargo, se equivoc6 al asignar a SECTRA responsabilidad de unidad ejecutora
de los proyectos incluidos en los Subprogramas a su cargo, puesto que dicho
organismo no tiene atribuciones para la ejecuci6n de obras.
La definici6n del Proyecto a ser financiado parcialmente por el Banco fue
correcta, si bien se demostr6 posteriormente que la distribuci6n de fondos entre
categorfas fue demasiado optimista respecto de lo que era posible ejecutar en
las lfneas de estudios, asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n por parte del MINVU,
debido a las razones ya expuestas.
Respecto de las misiones de supervisi6n del Banco, estas resultaron muy
provechosas para el buen desarrollo del Proyecto, a la vez que permitieron
intercambiar conocimientos y experiencias sobre de los temas de Transporte y
Vialidad Urbana. Sin embargo, estas misiones debieron haberse efectuado con
mayor regularidad y destinando mayor tiempo al apoyo tecnico.
6.-   Desemnefio del Prestatario
Como se ha seiialado en parrafos anteriores el Prestatario, representado en este
caso por dos institucionales del Estado que son MINVU y SECTRA,
desarrollaron todas las acciones a su alcance para cumplir con los objetivos y
metas del Proyecto.
Es asi como el Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo llevo a cabo un exitoso
programa de obras de mantenimiento, mejoramiento y pavimentaciones nuevas
que supero con creces tanto las metas fisicas como financieras establecidas
en el Staff Appraisal Report.
En cuanto al fortalecimiento institucional, el MINVU tuvo dificultades para lograr
un Departamento de Vialidad Urbana de nivel central con la dotaci6n de
personal y medios de apoyo suficientes para cumplir su labor de administrador
del Proyecto. Sin embargo, con notable esfuerzo de los profesionales
integrantes se logr6 ejecutar gran parte de las tareas requeridas.
Respecto de la comunicaci6n con las oficinas regionales del Ministerio (SEREMI
y SERVIU) dado la falta de profesionales y recursos para viajar, fue dificil dar
a conocer en profundidad las normas del Banco para la contrataci6n de estudios
y asesorias t6cnicas, produci6ndose dificultades con algunas regiones, lo que



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO                                            9
DDU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
llev6 a la subutilizaci6n de los recursos existentes en las categorias 3 a) y 3 b),
los cuales debieron reprogramarse.
Otro de los objetivos que se pretendia alcanzar se refiere al mejoramiento de las
relaciones de trabajo entre el MINVU y la SECTRA, lo cual se logr6 en gran
medida a partir del advenimiento del gobierno democratico en el anio 1990.
7.-   Evaluaci6n de los resultados.
Los resultados del Proyecto fueron satisfactorios. Tal como se ha seflalado en
puntos anteriores, en lo que se refiere a ejecuci6n de obras, el Ministerio de
Vivienda y Urbanismo super6 con creces las metas establecidas, sin que ello
haya significado descuidar los aspectos tecnicos de los proyectos.
Por otra parte, se logr6 importantes avances en el conocimiento de temas
relacionados con la vialidad y el transporte urbano y su aplicaci6n a la realidad
de nuestro pafs. Tambien se contribuy6 al perfeccionamiento profesional de los
funcionarios del MINVU y SECTRA, a traves de los programas de capacitaci6n
y viajes al exterior.
8.-   Operaciones futuras
No se visualiza en el futuro inmediato la posibilidad de un nuevo Cr6dito para
las areas de Vialidad y Transporte Urbano. Lo anterior, debido a que por la
positiva situaci6n econ6mica del pais no se ha considerado necesario contraer
nuevos compromisos financieros en esta area.
De haber existido esta posibilidad se estima que para el MINVU deberia haberse
canalizado hacia el financiamiento de estudios, capacitaci6n y asesorias
t6cnicas, con mayor colaboraci6n por parte del Banco.
9.-   Principales lecciones aprendidas.
En cuanto al desarrollo del Proyecto de Vialidad y Transporte Urbano, las
lecciones aprendidas son las siguientes:
-     Es muy importante que durante el periodo de negociaciones del credito,
se realice un buen diagn6stico de la situaci6n del sector, se identifique
a los organismos involucrados y se verifique las atribuciones de cada
uno de ellos, antes de asignarles responsabilidades.
-     Los objetivos y las metas que se establezcan en el Staff Appraisal Report



MINISTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y URBANISMO
DOU - DEPTO. DE VIALIDAD URBANA
deben ser realistas,  teniendo en consideraci6n que hay  ciertos
problemas muy dificiles de solucionar o cuya soluci6n toma un tiempo en
general mucho mayor que el lapso que dura un proyecto financiado por
el Banco.
Se sugiere al Banco revisar los procedimientos exigidos para la
contrataci6n de estudios y asesorias tecnicas, ya que en general resultan
dificiles de comprender y mas auin, de divulgar y son excesivamente
laboriosos.
Durante las negociaciones del Credito debe configurase el equipo tecnico
que estara a cargo de la administraci6n del mismo, debiendo el
prestatario asumir el compromiso que lo mantendra durante todo el
periodo de ejecuci6n del Proyecto a financiarse. Asimismo, se debe
otorgar el apoyo de infraestructura que ese equipo requiera para llevar a
cabo su tarea en buena forma.
El intercamb:o de conocimientos y experiencias que se produce entre los
fundionarios de gobierno del pais prestatario y los funcionarios del
Banco, resulta altamente enriquecedor y provechoso para los primeros
y por ende, para el pais.



PARTE SECTRA






Fpgine 1
Resumen de la Evaluaci6n
BIRF 3028 - CH
CHILE
IntQoduccidn
El presente informe resume tanto los objetivos como los resultados globales obtenidos
a traves de la realizaci6n de los estudios ejecutados con el financiamiento parcial del
Credito 3028-CH del Banco Mundial. Los resultados cualitativos que se presentan en
el texto, quedan cuantificados en las tablas anexas a este documento. Asimismo, se
hace entrega en forma adjunta, de la evaluaci6n ex-post de uno de los proyectos
importantes del prestamo "Experiencia Piloto Sistema de Control de Transito", llevado
a cabo en la ciudad de Santiago.
La Prestataria, y en particular esta Secretaria Ejecutiva detalla ademas, una serie de
lecciones aprendidas durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, algunas de las cuales serfa
deseable considerar con mayor detalle en los siguientes prestamos con el Estado de
Chile.
Finalmente, se detallan los Planes de Transporte que el Gobierno actual esta llevando
a cabo en las tres grandes ciudades del pais, con el fin de mostrar la
complementariedad del Proyecto con  las Politicas y Planes de Infraestructura
emprendidos en el pais. Lo anterior deja ver la sustentabilidad del Programa, tanto en
sus objetivos especificos; coma en sus lineas de acci6n.
Corwnpleleiito al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Phgins 2
OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
De acuerdo a lo establecido en el Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), los objetivos del
Proyecto propuesto son los siguientes:
. Fortalecer la capacidad institucional para planificar, gestionar y mantener los
sistemas de transporte urbano en el pais de un modo que permita estimar su
costo - efectividad.
* Preservar la inversi6n nacional en infraestructura vial urbana
* Facilitar la integraci6n de los elementos de transporte urbano, reducci6n de la
congesti6n y contribuir a la reducci6n de la poluci6n, y
* Demostrar la eficiencia de los modos de transporte publico alternativos.
En este sentido y tratando de alcanzar los objetivos anteriormente planteados, el
Prestamo se estructur6 en los siguientes subprogramas:
-Subprograma MINVU
-Subprograma de Gesti6n de Trafico - SECTRA
Subprograma de Transporte Publico - SECTRA
En lo que concierne a la parte de SECTRA, la Prestataria ha hecho efectiva la ayuda
del Banco, en el fortalecimiento de la capacidad institucional, ya que debido a
inconvenientes suscitados bn el curso del Prestamo (problemas respecto a la
construcci6n de las obras, los que se detallan en el punto 7 de la Tabla N7), fue
necesario llegar a ciertos acuerdos institucionales que permitieron ejecutar la
construcci6n de los proyectos de Gesti6n de Transito evaluados por esta Oficina y
reforzar el marco de acci6n de esta Secretaria Ejecutiva.
Por otra parte, dentro del programa de Gesti6n de Trafico se consider6 el estudio
"Analisis y Seguimiento Experiencia Piloto Sistema de Control de Trnnsito", ejecutado
por la Unidad Operativa de Control de Trafico (U.O.C.T), organismo integrante al igual
que SECTRA del Programa 02 de MIDEPLAN. Este estudio ha permitido justificar la
necesidad de contar en otras regiones del pais, con organismos tecnicos
especializados en estas materias. En efecto, a traves de la UOCT de Santiago, se
esta Ilevando a cabo la Implementaci6n Proyecto SCAT, cuya implementaci6n
finalizar6 en noviembre de 1996 y con un monto estimado de inversi6n de US$ 27
millones. Asimismo, en la Va regi6n comenz6 la operaci6n del proyecto SCAT - Viiia
del Mar durante el anlo 1995, y se tiene contemplado iniciar durante 1996 la
implementaci6n de un proyecto similar en la Vlllh regi6n.
Cornplcimicato al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



pFiina 3
El informe ejecutivo de la evaluaci6n ex-post de la Experiencia Piloto del Sistema de
Control de Transito se entrega dentro de los antecedentes adjuntos al presente
informe. Lamentablemente no es posible entregar la evaluaci6n ex-post de los otros
proyectos implementados del Subprograma Gesti6n de Trafico. En particular, la
evaluaci6n de los tiempos de viaje, velocidades y tasas de ocupaci6n de los buses en
el proyecto "Habilitaci6n Via Segregada de Buses de Avenida Grecia", debido a que
los antecedentes respectivos aun estan siendo analizados.
Exceptuando las obras de la Red Centro Nunioa, la cual finaliz6 en Diciembre de 1995,
el resto de las obras de Gesti6n de Trafico de Santiago y Concepci6n se encuentran
en ejecuci6n, por cuanto, no es posible realizar todavia evaluaci6n ex-post alguna.
Cabe hacer presente que las obras en Santiago han permitido elaborar la base de lo
que es la implementaci6n del Proyecto SCAT en la Regi6n Metropolitana, por cuanto
permitieron prever oportunamente problemas puntuales antes de la implementaci6n
del mencionado proyecto. Situaci6n similar ocurre en ia en la Vl11 Regi6n con la
construcci6n de las obras de Gesti6n de Transito de la Red Centro de Concepci6n y
Diversos Ejes Concepci6n - Talcahuano, respecto de lo que sera el Sistema de Control
de Transito del Gran Concepci6n.
Un numero importante de los proyectos ejecutados, se insertan dentro de algun
programa de los Planes Maestros de Transporte, sean 6stos del Gran Santiago, Gran
Valparaiso o del Gran Concepci6n, por ende, queda con esto asegurada la
sustentabilidad de su implementacion en el mediano y largo plazo.
Claramente los objetivos definidos en el SAR estan ampliamente cubiertos con el
desarrollo de los proyectos senialados anteriormente, los que ademas estuvieron en la
misma linea de acci6n del Gobierno, en el sentido de impulsar el desarrollo de mejoras
sustantivas del transporte publico, como tambi6n de entregar un rol especial a la
instituci6n coordinadora de las inversiones en infraestructura de transporte - SECTRA,
fortaleciendo el ya alto nivel de desarrollo y eficiencia de sus profesionales. Cabe
destacar, que los objetivos del Prestamo, tambien estan en la misma Ifnea de acci6n
de las politicas macro - econ6micas del pais, a trav6s del fortalecimiento de la
inversi6n publica y privada de la infraestructura de transporte y, del incremento de la
eficiencia de los servicios de las instituciones publicas.
Comolertieiito al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Credito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Pgign. 4
ImPLEMENTACIo6N - EXPERIENCIA Y RESULTADOS
El proyecto fue altamente exitoso en el alcance de sus objetivos (ver tablas
estadrsticas) alcanzando los objetivos e incluso sobrepasando algunos de ellos,
particularmente aquellos relacionados con el desarrollo de los estudios de transporte
puiblico y de gesti6n de trafico, como tambi6n en el fortalecimiento institucional.  En
forma importante, permiti6 consolidar el progreso alcanzado en planificaci6n, gesti6n,
mantenci6n, ejecuci6n y seguimiento de proyecto que son prioritarios dentro de las
Ifneas de acci6n del Gobierno, permitiendo innovar tanto en metodologias de
planificaci6n como tambien, incursionar en las politicas de desarrollo urbano de las
grandes ciudades.
Aun cuando no fue posible construir la Via Segregada de Transporte Masivo en la
Avenida Vicunia Mackenna, el proyecto mas importante a desarrollar dentro del
Subprograma de Transporte Publico (explicaci6n en el punto N9 de la Tabla N7), la
Prestataria reorient6 estos esfuerzos a la ejecuci6n de varios estudios relacionados
con este tema, a trav6s de los cuales se analizaron por ejemplo, puntualmente los
problemas de disenio de vias exclusivas de buses en cada proyecto, permitiendo con
esto, sentar las bases para implementar un Plan de Vias Segregadas de Locomoci6n
Colectiva en Santiago.
Los alcances anteriores, sugieren a juicio de la Prestataria, que la sustentabilidad de
este proyecto sera altamente satisfactoria.
El rendimiento del Banco durante [a preparaci6n, estimaci6n economica e
implementaci6n del proyecto fue altamente satisfactoria, en especial las relaciones
interpersonales con el personal del Banco y la correspondencia mantenida con la
Prestataria.
CornDlefyicmito al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Credito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Pigina 5
RESUMEN DE JUICIOS. OPERACIONES FUTURAS Y LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Los  resultados   generales  del  Proyecto  fueron   altamente  satisfactorios.
Lamentablemente, no es posible realizar la evaluaci6n econ6mica del Proyecto como
un todo, ya que para ello serfa necesario disponer de los antecedentes originales a
trav6s de los cuales se calcularon las rentabilidades de corto y largo plazo de cada uno
de los proyectos. Sin embargo, a juicio de la Prestataria, y en base a la experiencia
que se dispone, cualquier mejora en la gesti6n del sistema de transporte y
especificamente, mejoras en proyectos de Gesti6n de Trafico no incluidos en este
Pr6stamo, en ciudades como Santiago, Valpa.faiso o Concepci6n, ha demostrado ser
en la practica altamente rentables.
Ahora bien, los proyectos desarrollados a traves del Credito, excluyendo aquellos
relacionados con la investigaci6n de metodologfas, los cuales han sido y seran utiles
para perfeccionar las herramientas computacionales necesarias para la planificaci6n
del sistema de transporte, se insertan en mayor o menor medida en los Planes
Maestros de Transporte para el Gran Santiago, Gran Concepci6n o Gran Valparaiso.
Estos ultimos se detallan en el punto: Sustentabilidad del Proyecto (pagina N7). La
aprobaci6n de estos planes por parte del Comit6 de Ministros, asegura la
sustentabilidad de los proyectos, de los objetivos y de las lineas de accion del
Pr6stamo que se trataron de conseguir a traves de los programas implementados.
De la experiencia recogida durante este Prestamo, las principales recomendaciones
validas de ser incorporadas en los siguientes cr6ditos son las siguientes:
. Disenio de programas coherente y flexible, basado en su importancia y
factibilidad de implementaci6n, como asimismo en los componentes de los
proyectos.
* Fuerte compromiso de parte del Gobierno, de las instituciones del sector y de
sus beneficiarios.
* Definici6n clara de los rendimientos y estado de avance especifico de los
objetivos que se quieren lograr en cada proyecto individual y en el Programa
completo.
. Clara definicion del financiamiento, de las obligaciones y derechos que le
competen a cada institucion involucrada en el Prestamo.
* Condiciones macro - econ6micas favorables
Complemenito al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Papina a
* Definir en mayor grado los acuerdos con las componentes co - financieras del
Prestamo y, claramente  el conducto a trav6s del cual se efectuaran los
desembolsos.
* Definir los formatos y planillas de control de gasto por proyecto y programa,
tanto trimestral como acumulado anual.
* Relaciones entre la Prestataria y el Banco mas efectivas, con participaci6n
mas activa de la Prestataria en la ela.boraci6n del Appraisal. Estas relaciones
se deberfan mantener en el tiempo, aun cuando el credito en particular
finalizase,  de  modo  explorar  y  desarrollar  nuevos  financiamientos,
metodologias administrativas y tecnicas.
Complernmeito al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Pigina 7
Sustentabilidad del Proyecto
Durante la vigencia del Prestamo, el Gobierno de Chile aprob6 tres programas globales
de transporte, los cuales corresponden al Gran Santiago, al Gran Valparaiso y al Gran
Concepci6n.   Ellos se enmarcan en mayor o menor medida en la definici6n de los
siguientes instrumentos para materializar las politicas definidas en el sector:
Sistema Tarifario Integral
-     Tarificaci6n Vial
-     Concesiones Urbanas
Modernizaci6n del Transporte Publico
Gesti6n del Uso del Suelo
Institucionalidad, intersectorialidad, coordinaci6n, capacidad  de ejecucion,
Comisi6n Interministerial de Planificaci6n en Inversiones de Transporte (CIPIT),
descentralizaci6n.
A modo de comprender c6mo se insertan los distintos proyectos del Programa, se
detalla a continuaci6n las principales caracteristicas de los Planes de Transporte
mencionados.
1)    AREA METROPOLITANA DEL GRAN SANTIAGO
En el mes de Diciembre de 1 994, la Comisi6n de Planificacion de
Inversiones en lnfraestructura de Transporte (CIPiT), aprob6 el Plan de
Desarrollo del Sistema de Transporte Urbano de la ciudad de Santiago
para el periodo comprendido entre los anios 1995 y 2010. Este plan fue
desarrollado por SECTRA, y contempl6 un calendario de acciones e
inversiones para el periodo 1 995-2000, muchas de las cuales estan hoy
en ejecuci6n, y otras comenzaran a ejecutarse en los pr6ximos anios.
Este plan ha sido estructurado  en funci6n de 8 programas, cuyo
financiamiento sera aportado por el Estado y los usuarios, a trav6s de
fondos sectoriales, la tarificaci6n vial y el programa de concesiones
urbanas. La inversion total considerada es de 2.800 millones de d6lares.
En sintesis, para el perfodo 1 997-2000, el plan contempla la
materializaci6n de los siguientes programas y proyectos (entre parentesis
se indica la instituci6n responsable):
Compleniento al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Piglna I
*     Programa 1: Modernizaci6n del Transporte Publico (MINVU).
Contempla la construcci6n de 7 vfas segregadas para el transporte
publico. Adicionalmente, y considerando que no existe precedente
reciente respecto del nivel de intervenci6n urbana que significan
estos proyectos, se ha dispuesto la creaci6n de una unidad
especializada dentro del SERVIU de la Regi6n Metropolitana
(similar a la Gerencia del proyecto Linea 5), con recursos
adicionales a objeto de coordinar la ejecuci6n de los estudios de
ingenierfa de detalle de las.vfas segregadas, asi como su posterior
construcci6n.
*     Programa 2: Ampliaci6n de la Red de Metro (METRO S.A.).
Considera la construcci6n de la prolongaci6n de la Linea 5 del
Metro al centro de la ciudad.   Ademas, se prev6 iniciar la
construcci6n de una linea adicional entre Estaci6n Central y el
centro de Maipu. Cabe sefialar que esta en curso la adquisici6n de
material rodante adicional para la Red de Metro, decisi6n que se
adopt6 en el anio 1 995.
*     nPrograma 3: Trenes Urbanos (Estado de Chile).
Se concesionara la habilitaci6n de un servicio de tren suburbano
para el corredor Melipilla - Santiago.  El material rodante sera
financiado por el concesionario a traves del cobro de tarifas.
*     Programa 4: Concesiones Viales Urbanas (MOP).
Contempla concesionar al sector privado la construcci6n de los
siguientes proyectos: Sistema Oriente-Poniente, Sistema Norte-Sur
y Sistema Am6rico Vespucio. La inversi6n estimada para el
conjunto de estos proyectos sera aportada por el sector privado.
Complemento ml IMPLEMENTATION CONMPLETION REPORT del Credito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



PUgina 9
*     Programa 5: Sistema Tarifario Integral (MINTRATEL).
Contempla definir y establecer un sistema tarifario integrado para
la ciudad, que de cuenta de la necesaria compatibilidad entre los
cobros por tarificaci6n vial y concesiones. Adicionalmente, se
impulsara el establecimiento de un sistema integrado de tarifas en
el transporte publico para las combinaciones bus-bus y bus-metro.
*     Programa P: Ampliaci6n de. la Red Vial (MINVU-MOP).
Se contempla continuar con el programa de ampliaci6n de la red
vial Ilevado a cabo hasta la fecha.
*     Programa 7: Mantenimiento Vial Urbano (MINVU).
Este   programa   contempla   inversiones   adicionales   en
mantenimiento vial urbano.
*     Programa 8: Iniciativas de Politicas (MINTRATEL-MINVU).
Este programa reune las iniciativas de polifticas en los ambitos de
transporte y gesti6n del uso del suelo. En este sentido el Gobierno
impulsara decididamente la aprobaci6n de la Ley de Tarificaci6n
Vial, actualmente en tramite legislativo.
Por otra parte, se encuentran en proceso de licitaci6n los estudios
necesarios en los ambitos de transporte publico y uso del suelo,
que permitir6n establecer las bases para una nueva estructura de
los recorridos de superficie, asi como una adecuada gesti6n del
uso del suelo.
Comolemento al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Pg9Ina 10
b)    AREA METROPOLITANA DEL GRAN VALPARAISO
En el mes de Enero de 1 996, la Comisi6n de Planificaci6n de Inversiones
en lnfraestructura de Transporte (CIPIT), aprob6 el Plan de Desarrollo del
Sistema de Transporte Urbano del Gran Valparafso para el periodo
comprendido entre los anios 1 996 y 201 0.
El plan fue desarrollado por SECTRA, y contempl6 un calendario de
acciones e inversiones para el perfodo 1.996-2000, algunas de las cuales
estan hoy en ejecuci6n, y atras comenzaran a ejecutarse en los pr6ximos
anios.
Este plan ha sido estructurado en funci6n de 7 programas, cuyo
financiamiento sera aportado por el Estado y los usuarios, a trav6s de
fondos sectoriales, la tarificaci6n vial y el programa de concesiones
urbanas.  Adicionalmente,  el  Estado  destinara  fondos  para  el
mantenimiento vial urbano.
En sintesis, para el periodo 1 997-2000, el plan contempla la
materializacion de los siguientes programas y proyectos (entre par6ntesis
se indica la instituci6n responsable), que mas adelante se detallan.
Especial mencidn merece el corredor Villa Alemana - Valparaiso.  En
efecto, este corredor es el mas importante en terminos de la cantidad de
viajes en transporte publico.    De acuerdo a las proyecciones de
crecimiento del area metropolitana del Gran Valparaiso, en el futuro, su
rol sera mas relevante aun.   Por tales razones, los primeros tres
programas planteados para el Gran Valparaiso consideran la construcci6n
de proyectos complementarios en el corredor en cuesti6n.
Complemerito al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Cr5dito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



P6gins II
*     Programa 1: Modernizaci6n del Transporte Publico (MINVU).
Contempla la construcci6n de 1 via segregada para el transporte
publico en el actual Camino Troncal Vinia del Mar - Quilpue - Villa
Alemana.
*     Programa 2: Trenes Urbanos (MINVU - EFE).
Considera la habilitaci6n. de un servicio ferroviario de pasajeros
(semimetro) en el corredor Villa Alemana - Valparaiso, atravesando
la ciudad de Vinia del Mar mediante un tunel de casi 4 kil6metros.
*     Programa 3: Concesiones Viales Urbanas (MOP).
Considera la construcci6n del Troncal Sur, que unira las comunas
de Villa Alemana, Quilpue y Vifia del Mar. Este proyecto formarb
parte integrante de la concesi6n de la Ruta 68.
*     Programa 4: Proyectos Especiales (MOP-EMPORCHI).
Contempla habilitar el acceso sur al Puerto de Valparaiso,
modificando la actual estructura operacional del puerto. Al
respecto, se considera desafectar del uso portuario los terrenos
ubicados entre Bar6n y Muelle Prat.
Al respecto, se debera analizar en detalle la posibilidad de entregar
en concesi6n al sector privado la construcci6n y explotaci6n de
esta obra.
*     Programa 5: Sistema Tarifario Integral (MINTRATEL).
Contempla definir y establecer un sistema tarifario integrado para
la ciudad, que de cuenta de la necesaria compatibilidad entre los
cobros por tarificaci6n vial y concesiones. Adicionalmente, se
impulsara el establecimiento de un sistema integrado de tarifas en
el transporte publico para las combinaciones bus-bus y bus-metro.
CornDlemInto al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



Pigina 12
*     Programa 6: Ampliaci6n de la Red Vial (MINVU-MOP).
Se contempla continuar con el programa de ampliaci6n de la red
vial llevado a cabo hasta la fecha.
*     Programa 7: Mantenimiento Vial Urbano (MINVU).
Este   programa    contempla   inversiones   qdicionales   en
mantenimiento vial urbano, para el perfodo 1 997-2000.
Complemento al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crgdito 3028 CH
SECTRA



Pigina 13
c)    AREA METROPOLITANA DEL GRAN CONCEPCION
En el mes de Julio de 1 994, la Comisi6n de Planificaci6n de Inversiones
en lnfraestructura de Transporte (CIPIT), aprob6 el Plan de Desarrollo del
Sistema de Transporte Urbano del. Gran Concepci6n para el periodo
comprendido entre los ahos 1 995 y 2005.
Este plan fue desarrollado por SECTRA, y contempl6 un calendario de
acciones e inversiones para el periodo 1 995-2000, algunas de las cuales
estan hoy en ejecuci6n, y otras.comenzaran a ejecutarse en los pr6ximos
aiios.
El plan ha sido estructurado en funci6n de 7 programas, cuyo
financiamiento sera aportado por el Estado y los usuarios, a trav6s de
fondos sectoriales, la tarificaci6n vial y el programa de concesiones
urbanas.   Adicionalmente, el Estado  destinara los fondos para el
mantenimiento vial urbano.
En sintesis, para el periodo 1 997-2000, el plan contempla la
materializaci6n de los siguientes programas y proyectos (entre par6ntesis
se indica la instituci6n responsable):
*     Programa 1: Modernizaci6n del Transporte Publico (MINVU).
Contempla la construcci6n del mejoramiento del Eje Los Carrera.
Adicionalmente, se impulsara el establecimiento de un sistema
integrado de tarifas en el transporte publico.
*     Programa 2: Trenes Urbanos (MINVU - EFE).
Considera iniciar los estudios de prefactibilidad orientados a
habilitar un servicio ferroviario de pasajeros (semimetro) en el
corredor Chiguayante - Talcahuano.
*     Programa 3: Concesiones Viales Urbanas (MOP).
Considera la construcci6n de un Tercer Puente sobre el rio Bio -
Bfo.
Complemento al IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Crddito 3028 - CH
SECTRA



P*&a 14
Programa 4: Sistema Tarifario Integral (MINTRATEL).
Contempla definir y establecer un sistema tarifario integrado para
la ciudad, que de cuenta de la necesaria compatibilidad entre los
cobros por tarificaci6n vial y concesiones.
Programa 5: Ampliaci6n de la Red Vial (MINVU-MOP).
Se contempla continuar cpn el programa de ampliaci6n de la red
vial llevado a cabo hasta la fecha, para lo cual se destinara los
recursos cturante el perfodo 1 997-2000.
*    Programa 6: Mantenimiento Vial Urbano (MINVU).
Este programa contempla inversiones en mantenimiento vial
urbano, para el periodo 1 997-2000.
Tomando en consideracion que SECTRA continua analizando y evaluando estas
fneas de accidn, pone de manifiesto la sustentabilidad del Programa ejecutado con
financiamiento del Crddito BIRF 3028 - CH.
Complemseto c1 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT del Cr4dito 3028 * CH
SECTRA



IBRD 21216
PERf                                           p. /   o   // ,- )  <  SonC -     $                                                                   4   POERXTCSEeTDING    TONS44.
-l 1-..8.%                                          REGION     LOI50Z                         REGION L *
N     Psr,o.OOE>             g0                      Sa,, F.I,.O -          DE                                                                                              D
A,oo  IA     -      VALPARAISO ~~~~~~~~~~~V  e  -       --    COOUIA4BO                                                 A     IS out
\ /) 14 > < Ar uco 33. ~~~~~Ultm  prna     --ITRAINL3DAREP1SO 
A6.                             VA            to /                        SE INSE D                                                                              A -52  e r  c2.
H<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....Do / Cr'so  ..                                               I.=.:.
APIC<                                     Ov42- Aood   0L*2'ACH I L                                                                                                 A mtertkzcaln
dVS       ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ GIVa    CLOo A                                                                      UBA  RAD AND5'
m      ALP= ROlsA
REGION  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~IM0REGION AISEN DEL                                                                            cIZ)WB
REGION                                                                                 v~~' 4D' /PraSTASOTPOETKLMTR
DE                                        San /- v                                                                   GENERAL CARLOS - 7                               -               N     E
fl~~~    0    0   S.nS.rn.rd0 ~~~~~~IBANEZ DEL CAMPO
-0~~~~*      MAIN ROADS
REGION DEL USER                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
d              GENERAL BERNARDO O'HIGGINS                                                                 > 48'           CONTOURS (11000 M.t.~II,vov
22'  T-wil                 22'.                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CgptRA plat  ~-   RIVERS
REGION C-alt"                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SALINE LAKES
DEL                                                       77          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICE FIELDS
DE         El I                                                                                                                          It~~~~~~ao  ~o   MINES
ANTOFAGASTA                                                      Ca                                   36' \                                  j        4   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
.L  PORTS, THROUGH-PUT
REGION DEL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~~ -             / ~~~~EXCEEDING 300,000 TONS
GONCEPCI                 -50. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* NATIONAL CAIL58
21-                24'.                                                                                                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* EGOON CAPITALS
POVINCE BOUNDARIES
RE:GION BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
<  38'                                        31'           U~~~~~~~~~~~~Llt""O Esp0~anZ0          INTERNATIONAL BOUNOARIES
T.1   -  z                         TEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaI.. 
REGION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~REINDEEAALAE 
26'                                         26~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ LOS LAROAPUCADENIARTCACILN
REGION ~ ~ ~         ~            ~            ~           ~           ~ ~ ~ REIN
Drz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dv
LA 00RENA  &Vq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  rvA.                                                                   UD L ATRB IAN   ROLEAD         AN
REGION                                                                                                                             TRANSPORT PROJECT                           05  E  5
7.0-  ~ ~ ~ 6'  7.4'      7.2-         7.0' ~~~~~NOVEMBER 19R8









MI, -  Jt   -
Ki     I I D'S .tA



