Page  1
April 21, 1993
Mr. Alejandro Foxley
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Re:
Loan No. 3028-CH (Urban Streets
and Transport Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Foxley:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated May 12, 1989, between Republic of 
Chile and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the 
above Project, as amended.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees with the request made by Mr. 
Jose Pablo Arellano in the letter dated March 26, 1993 to amend the Loan Agreement in 
order to reflect certain institutional changes in the execution of the Project.  
Because we have not received a countersigned copy of our letter dated March 26, 1990, 
which proposed a few other amendments to the Loan Agreement, we are disregarding that 
letter and propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02
 
(a)
Paragraph (c) is amended to read as follows:
 
"(c) 'SECTRA' means Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comision de Planificacion 
de Inversiones en 
Infraestructura de Transporte, the Executive Secretariat of the 
Planning Commission for 
Invesments in Transport Infrastructure;"
 
(b)
Paragraph (f) is amended by replacing the word "SECTU" by the words 
"SECTRA, MIDEPLAN, SERVIU".
(c)
The following paragraphs (p) and (q) are added:
 
"(p)  'MIDEPLAN' means Ministerio de Planificacion y Cooperacion, the 
Ministry of Planning 
and Cooperation; and
 
(q)   'SERVIU' means MINVUS's Servicios de Vivienda y Urbanismo (Housing 
and Urbanism 
services) in the regions where the Project will be carried out."
 
2.
Section  3.01
 
Paragraph (b) is  amended by replacing the words "SECTU and the Intendencias" by 
the words "SECTRA, MIDEPLAN, SERVIU and the Intendencias".
3.
Section 3.03
Paragraph (a) is amended by replacing the words "Comision de Transporte Urbano" 
by the words "Comision de Inversiones de Infraestructura de Transporte".
4.
Schedule 2
 
Part B is amended by replacing, in paragraphs 1 (b) and 2 (b) thereof, the words 
"SECTU and the Intendencias" by the words "SECTRA, MIDEPLAN, SERVIU and the 
Intendencias".
5.
Schedule 6
 
In paragraph 3 of the "Training" component of the implementation Plan, the word 
"SECTU" is replaced by the word "SECTRA".
Page  2
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Director
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Alejandro Foxley Rioseco
Ministro de Hacienda
Authorized Representative
Date: Mayo, 05 de 1993.
