Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3028 CH
(Urban Streets and Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 12, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3028 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"MINVU" means the Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, the Ministry of 
Housing and Urbanism of the Borrower;
(b)
"CREDEX" means Oficina  de Coordinacion de Credito Externo, the Office of 
Coordination of External Credit of MINVU;
(c)
"SECTU" means Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comision de Transporte Urbano, 
the Executive Secretariat to the Urban Transport Commission of the Borrower;
(d)
"MOI" means Ministerio del Interior, the Ministry of Interior of the 
Borrower;
(e)
"Intendencias" means the government of each of the following of the 
Borrower's political subdivisions: Gran Santiago, Gran Concepcion and Gran Valparaiso, 
and "Intendencia" means any one of the Intendencias;
(f)
"Project Implementation Agencies" means collectively MINVU, CREDEX, 
SECTU, and the Intendencias, and "Project Implementation Agency" means any one of the 
Project Implementation Agencies;
(g)
"Sub-project" means any sub-project included under Part A of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be partially financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan;
(h)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central de Chile, the central bank of the 
Borrower;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Peso" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
 
(k)
"National Transport Sector" means all activities pertaining to the 
movement throughout the Borrower's territory of people and goods including, without 
limitation, planning, design, construction, acquisition, operation and maintenance of 
all transportation equipment, material, facilities, infrastructure and operational 
systems;
(l)
"National Urban Transport Sector" means such part of the National 
Transport Sector which pertains to the movement of people and goods in the urbanized 
areas of the Borrower's territory, "urbanized areas", for purposes of this paragraph 
(l) only, to include all cities and urbanized population centers with at least 2,500 
inhabitants;
(m)
"Urban Streets Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's annual program 
for the routine and periodic maintenance of the urban streets under its jurisdiction;
(n)
"Urban Streets Improvement Program" means the Borrower's annual program 
for improvements to urban streets under its jurisdiction including, without 
limitation, paving, geometric and operational improvements, rehabilitation, 
construction, planning, design, studies and supervision of contracts; and 
(o)
"Major Urban Transport Investment" means any investment related to the 
National Urban Transport Sector, including, without limitation, the execution of civil 
works or the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy five million dollars (US$75,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Banco Central on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Project Implementation Agencies, as applicable, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the 
following Project Implementation Agencies shall have primary responsibility for 
carrying out the stated Part of the Project:
Parts A.1 (a), (b) (i), 
- 
MINVU (acting through
(c) and (e)
its central and regional
offices, as applicable)
Parts A.1, (b) (ii),
- 
SECTU and the
Page  4
(d) and A.2
Intendencias
 
Parts A.3 (a), (b),
- 
SECTU and the
(c) and (e)
Intendencias
 
Part A.3 (d)
-
MINVU (acting through its
central and regional
offices, as applicable)
Parts B.1 (a), (c)
-
MINVU
and  B.2 (a)
Parts B.1 (b), (d)
-
SECTU and the
and B.2 (b) 
Intendencias
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower agrees to maintain full cost recovery in respect of 
the National Transport Sector and will advise the Bank of any changes of policy or 
actions which would adversely affect such cost recovery, and afford the Bank an 
opportunity to review and comment on such changes. Upon the Bank's request, the 
Borrower  shall  provide the Bank information, satisfactory to the Bank, indicating 
the level of cost recovery in respect of such Sector.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
Before each November 1, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comments, 
the proposed Urban Streets Maintenance Program, approved by MINVU, and the proposed 
Urban Streets Improvement Program, approved by Comision de Transporte Urbano, the 
Borrower's Urban Transport Commission, both for the following fiscal year;
(b)
before each December 31, prepare and furnish to the Bank, the Urban 
Streets Maintenance Program and the Urban Streets Improvement Program for the 
following fiscal year, which shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
for each of its fiscal years, after the fiscal year ending December 31, 
1988, increase the yearly amounts allocated in its national budget to the Urban 
Streets Maintenance Program, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, so as to reach the 
minima of thirteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($13,500,000) in the fourth 
year of the execution of the Project, and fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000) in 
each year thereafter; and
(d)
(i) cause all urban streets under the jurisdiction of the Borrower to be 
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in 
accordance with appropriate economic, engineering and environmental practices; (ii) 
cause all urban street maintenance equipment and workshops, owned by or under the 
control of the Borrower, to be adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate economic and 
engineering practices; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds required for 
the foregoing.
Section 3.04. The Borrower through CREDEX shall, on the basis of information 
provided by each Project Implementation Agency, prepare and provide to the Bank no 
later than within 45 days of the end of each quarter ending December 31, March 30, 
June 30 and September 30, of each year until the Closing Date, a written report on the 
progress achieved in the execution of, inter alia, the physical, financial and 
institutional aspects of the Project. Each such report shall be of such scope and 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request and shall include inter alia, information 
indicating progress achieved, measured against key monitoring and evaluation 
indicators acceptable to the Bank. The first such report each year shall also include 
information, satisfactory to the Bank, concerning the allocations in the Borrower's 
budget for the Borrower's then current fiscal year of the funds required for the 
Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, prior to commencing any Major Urban Transport 
Investment advise the Bank of such planned investment, furnish to the Bank such 
information thereon as the Bank may reasonably request and provide the Bank an 
opportunity to comment on such planned investment prior to its commencement. 
Page  5
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out the 
studies, plans and programs described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement promptly in 
accordance with the implementation timetable set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall furnish, or 
cause to be furnished, to the Bank for its review and comment the results of each such 
study, plan and program.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the Borrower's obligations under Section 
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall complete Part A.1 (a) of the Project in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank not later than one year from the Effective Date.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the Project 
Implementation Agencies and other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for carrying out the Project, or any part thereof, including, without limitation, 
separate records and accounts to reflect resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Urban Streets Maintenance Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall ensure, or cause to be ensured, that all 
acquisition of land needed for the execution of the Project shall be carried out in 
accordance with policies, rules and criteria acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, should implementation of the Project 
require displacement or resettlement of population, the Borrower shall notify the Bank 
thereof, and upon the Bank's request shall present a resettlement plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, prior to any such displacement or resettlement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower shall have 
commenced a Major Urban Transport Investment which in the opinion of the Bank shall 
materially and adversely affect the execution of the Project or of any Sub-project or 
the economic or financial viability of the Borrower's Urban Streets Maintenance 
Program or Urban Streets Improvement Program.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
6.01 above shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date ninety days is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower (Ministro de Hacienda) is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Teatinos 120
Santiago de Chile
Chile
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MHDA-CL
241334 MHDA-CL
Santiago, Chile
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Enrique Seguel
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of
the Controller General and
of the Treasurer General
of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the  Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated         Percentage of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  (a)  Works under          48,400,000      70% of amounts
          Part A.1 of                          paid by the
          the Project                          Borrower in
                                               1988 and 1989,
                                               60% in 1990,
                                               50% in 1991,
                                               44% in 1992,
                                               35% in 1993, and
                                               30% in 1994.
     (b)  Works under           4,100,000      47%
Page  8
          Part A.2 of
          the Project
     (c)  Works under           4,600,000      47%
          Part A.3 of
          the Project
(2)  Goods                      1,300,000      70%
(3)  (a)  Studies,              4,500,000      80%
          Technical
          Assistance
          and Training
          under Parts A
          and B of the
          Project
     (b)  Design and            4,600,000      80%
          supervision
          of works
          under Part A
          of the
          Project
(4)  Unallocated                7,500,000
                                _________
          TOTAL                75,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of seven 
million five hundred thousand dollars (US$7,500,000), may be made in respect of 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures  before that 
date but after September 23, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the Borrower's 
institutional capabilities to plan, manage and maintain its urban transport systems in 
a cost-effective manner; (b) preserve the Borrower's national investment in its urban 
street infrastructure; (c) facilitate the integration of the Borrower's urban 
transport elements, reduce congestion and contribute to a reduction in air pollution; 
and (d) demonstrate the efficiency of alternative public transport modes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Execution of the following individual Sub-projects. 
1.
A MINVU urban street maintenance and rehabilitation Sub-project consisting of 
the following:
(a)
Development of urban street pavement and maintenance management systems 
in each of the Borrower's thirteen (13) geographical regions ("Regiones");
(b)
Preparation and annual updating for each of the Borrower's thirteen (13) 
geographical regions, of five-year programs for: (i) urban street maintenance and (ii) 
urban street improvement generally based on the management systems referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above;
(c)
Execution of the annual program for routine and periodic maintenance of 
Page  9
urban streets referred to in subparagraph (b) (i) above; and
(d)
Evaluation, selection and preliminary design of urban streets to be 
included in the Urban Streets Improvement Program (including paving of unpaved 
streets);
(e)
Execution of the annual urban street improvement program referred to in 
subparagraph (b) (ii) above.
2.
A public transport Sub-project consisting of the following: 
 
(a)
Carrying out of studies on alternative public transport modes in the 
metropolitan area of Gran Santiago;
(b)
Design and construction of a pilot bus/tramway alternative public 
transport mode selected on the basis of the studies referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above; and
(c)
Carrying out of a study to evaluate the technical, economic and financial 
performance of the pilot bus/tramway alternative public transport mode referred to in 
subparagraph (b) above.
3.
A traffic management Sub-project consisting of the following: 
 
(a)
Carrying out of urban transport and traffic management studies;
 
(b)
Execution of urban traffic management programs, including bus priority 
lanes, selected on the basis of the studies referred to in subparagraph (a) above; and 
(c)
Carrying out of a feasibility study and the design of a pilot bikeway 
scheme in the metropolitan area of Gran Santiago; 
(d)
Execution of the bikeway scheme selected on the basis of the study and 
design referred to in subparagraph (c) above; and
(e)
Carrying out of a study to evaluate the technical, economic and financial 
performance of the bikeway scheme referred to in subparagraph (d) above.
Part B:
1.
Provision of technical assistance:
 
(a)
For the institutional strengthening of MINVU's central and regional 
offices, including assisting MINVU in carrying out Part A.1 of the Project;
(b)
To assist SECTU and the Intendencias in carrying out Parts A.2 and A.3 of 
the Project;
(c)
Acquisition and utilization of equipment for carrying out the activities 
under subparagraph (a) above.
(d)
Acquisition and utilization of equipment for carrying out the activities 
under subparagraph (b) above.
2.
Execution of training programs including overseas courses and technical 
meetings:
(a)
For MINVU's managerial, professional and technical staff, and related 
personnel of the Borrower's National Urban Transport Sector, for the carrying out of 
the activities under paragraph 1 (a) above; and
(b)
For the managerial, professional and technical staff of SECTU and the 
Intendencias, and related personnel of the Borrower's National Urban Transport Sector, 
for the carrying out of activities under paragraph 1 (b) above. 
* * *
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning July 15, 1994
     through   January 15, 2006                     3,125,000
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 
3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but                         0.88
     not more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
     before maturity
Page  11
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding:
 
Subject to paragraph 3 below, computer hardware and software may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis 
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in  accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
2.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Subject to paragraph 3 below, goods, other than those referred to in paragraph 1 
above, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the 
equivalent of $300,000, and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more but less than the equivalent of 3,500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $122,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Shopping:
 
Goods, other than those referred to in paragraph 1 above, civil works estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,100,000; and computer hardware and software 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $50,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts and related documents for the 
procurement of works and goods by each Project Implementation Agency up to the first 
$1,000,000 aggregate worth of said procurement for each such Agency in respect of 
Parts A.1 (a), (b) (i), (c), (e) and A.3 (d) of the Project, and up to the first 
$500,000 aggregate worth of said procurement in respect of Parts A.1 (b) (ii), (d), 
A.2 and A.3 (a), (b), (c) and (e) of the Project; (ii) without limitation to the 
foregoing, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,500,000 or 
more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more; and (iii) all contracts for the carrying out of studies, plans and programs, and 
for the provision of technical assistance and training under the Project, the 
Page  12
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to seven 
million dollars ($7,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  13
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been made out of 
the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Plan
Page  14
1.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the following shall be the schedule for 
implementation of the studies, plans and programs described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
                                               Propose
                                               plan of    Begin
                                      Review   action    imple-
                                      results  accept-  mentation
                            Com-       with    able to   of plan
    Activity   Begin by   plete by    Bank by   Bank    of action
     Studies
1.   MINVU Train-   6/30/89   9/30/89  10/31/89  11/30/89   1/31/90
     ing Study
2.   MINVU Annual   1/31/--   9/30/--  10/31/--  11/30/--   1/31/--
     Regional
     Maintenance
     Studies (com-
     mencing in
     the year
     1990)
3.   Concepcion     6/30/90  12/31/91  3/31/92   6/30/92    9/30/92
     Urban
     Transport
     Study
4.   Santiago      11/30/89  12/31/90   6/30/91   9/30/91  12/31/91
     Urban
     Transport
     Study
5.   MINVU Annual   6/30/--   7/31/--   9/30/--  10/31/--   1/31/--
     Training Eva-
     luation (com-
     mencing in
     the year
     1990)
6.   Bus/Tramway    3/31/92   9/30/92  12/31/92    N/A       N/A
     Evaluation
7.   Bikeway Eva-   6/30/91  12/31/91  3/31/92     N/A       N/A
     luation
     Training
1.   MINVU          3/01/90  12/31/91
     Training
2.   MINVU Study    9/30/89  12/31/89  3/31/90    4/30/90   6/30/90
     Visits
3.   SECTU Study    6/30/89   8/31/89  9/30/89   12/31/89   1/31/90
     Visits
     Technical
     Assistance
1.   MINVU Main-    6/30/89   5/31/90    N/A       N/A        N/A
     tenance
     Advisor
2.   Traffic        6/30/89  12/31/91  Annually
Page  15
     system man-
     agement
     develop-
     ment in In-
     tendencias
