Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14944-DON
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 1995
Country Department III
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC)
EC 1.00 = US$0.37
US$ 1.00 = EC2.7
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - June
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACEO          Assistant Chief Education Officer
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDB           Caribbean Development Bank
CDC           Clifton Dupigny College
CDU           Curriculum Development Unit
CEE           Common Entrance Examination
CEO           Chief Education Officer
CGCED         Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CO            Curriculum Officer
CXC           Caribbean Examinations Council
DEO           District Education Office
EC            Eastern Caribbean
EMU           Educational Materials Unit
EO            Education Officer
EPU           Education Planning and Statistics Unit
ESL           Education Strategy Letter
ETX           Educational Testing and Examinations Unit
GCE           General Certificate of Education
ICB           International Competititive Bidding
JSP           Jumior Secondary Program
MOE           Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NCB           National Competititive Bidding
OECS          Organization of the Eastern Caribbean States
OERS          OECS Education Reform Strategy
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development (Japanese Government Grant)
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PMU           Project Management Unit
SEO           Senior Education Officer
SCL           Single Currency Loan
SLS           Schools Library Service
TTC           Teacher Training College
UWI           University of the West Indies



COMMONWELTH OF DOMINCA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND CREDIT PROJECT SUMMARY ........................                                                               .............................. iii
BASIC DATA SHEET ...................................................... iv
1. BACKGROUND .......................................................1
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT .......................................................2
A. CURRENT EDUCATIONAL SITUATION .......................................................2
B. THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK .................................................4
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .......................................................6
A. ISSUES .......................................................6
(1) Quali4y  and Effectiveness of Teaching  and Learning ..................                                            ..................................6
(2) Efficiency of the Educational System ....................................................                                                                11
(3) Fquity ofAccess to Educational Opportunities ....................................................                                                         11
B. GOVERNMENT SECTORAL POLICY AND FINANCING .                                                    ...................................................... 12
4. SECTORAL ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ......................................................                                                                             14
A. THE BANK'S ROLE AND STRATEGY ......................................................                                                                            14
B. BANK  SECTOR  EXPERIENCE AND  LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................15............................... I5
5. THE PROJECT .........................................                                                                                                          18
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPT .........................................                                                                                       18
B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................... 19
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN .........................................                                                                                       28
A. PROJECT COSTS .........................................                                                                                                        28
B. RECURRENT COSTS AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................                                                                           29
C. FINANCING PLAN .........................................                                                                                                       30
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................................                                                                                               32
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION .........................................                                                                                  32
B. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS .........................................                                                                                            32
C. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM .........................................                                                                                                33
D. PROCUREMENT .........................................                                                                                                           33
(1) Civil Works ........................................                                                                                                     34
(2) Goods ........................................ 35
(3) Technical Assistance ........................................                                                                                             36
(4) IBRD and IDA Review ........................................                                                                                             37
E. DISBURSEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS .........................................                                                                                            37
F. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITS .........................................                                                                          39
G. PROJECT MONITORING  AND  EVALUATION  .........................................                                                                                 40
(1) Project Performance Reporting ........................................                                                                                   40
(2) Project Reviews ........................................ 40
H. PROJECT SUPERVISION .........................................                                                                                                  41
I. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .........................................                                                                                                  41



8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................................                 42
A. BENEFITS ....................................................                                    42
B. RISKS ....................................................                                       42
9. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................................... 44
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED ....................................................                          44
B. RECOMMENDATION ....................................................                              45
ANNEXES AND APPENDICES ....................................................                         46
This report is based on sector discussions over the period 1993-1995 between the Government and the Bank
and Association and CDB. A team of international and local consultants and counterparts conducted studies
of various aspects of the sector between May 1994 and February 1995. Those reports then formed the basis
of the proposed project. A reconnaissance/identification mission of February 1995 was followed by a
preparation mission of April 1995. In June/July 1995, a Bank/IDA mission comprising Ms. Karen
Lashman, Principal Operations Officer (LA3HR), Messrs. Ralph Romain, Principal Education Specialist
(HDD), and Marco Mantovanelli, Consultant (LA3HR) visited Dominica and appraised the proposed
project. Ms. Marie-Christine Theodore provided support in document production. Peer reviewers, Ms.
Marlaine Lockheed (HDD) and Mr. Richard Cambridge (SA2DR), reviewed the IEPS for the OECS Basic
Education Project from which this project was developed. The Department Director, Project Adviser and
Sector Division Chief were Messieurs Paul Isenman, Robert Crown, and Julian Schweitzer, respectively.
11



COMMONWELTH OF DOMINICA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Commonwealth of Dominica
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports
Beneficiary:               Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    Loan of US$ 3.07 million equivalent
Credit of SDR2.10 million (US$3.07 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard amortization term grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate
US dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement period of
3-6 years; and Credit repayment in 35 years including a grace period of
10 years, at standard IDA terms.
Commitment Fee:            For loan, 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver; for credit 0.50% on undisbursed credit
balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:            Government US$ 1.8 million equivalent; IBRD/IDA US$6.1 million
equivalent
Net Present Value:         Not Applicable
Map:                       IBRD No. 27486
Project Identification
Number:                    DM-PA-6969
. . 



BASIC DATA SHEET
A. General Country Data                                              Year           Source
1. Population Estimate (thousand)                            72      1993           b
3. GNP per Capita (US$)                                      2,680   1993           b
4. GNP per Capita -- Real Growth Rate (%)                    4.8    1985-93         b
B.     Social Indicators
1. Crude birth rate                                          25.5   1992            a
2. Crude death rate (per 1,000)                              7.9    1992            a
3. Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)              -0.3    1985-1993      b
4. Total Fertility Rate (births per woman)                   2.5    1992            b
5. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)             18      1992           b
6. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                          72      1992           b
C.     Education Data
1. Net Enrollment Rates (% of age group enrolled)
Primary                                                    98      1993           C
Secondary                                                  54      1993           C
Higher                                                     n.a
2. EMciency Data
Student/Teacher Ratio (public schools)
Primary                                              21.6   1994/95          c
Secondary                                             16.6   1994/95        c
Dropout Rates (% per year)
Primary                                              n.a
Secondary                                            2.0    1991/92          c
Repetition Rates
Primary                                              n.a
Secondary                                            9.3    1991/92          c
Mliteracy Rates
Female                                               n.a
Total                                                n.a
3. Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending as a % of GNP              5.2    1993            e
Total Public Recurrent Education Spending as a % of Central
Recurrent Govt budget                                      17.1   1994            d
Shares of Public Recurrent Education Expenditures
Primary                                              52.7   1994            d
Secondary                                            27.3   1994            d
Higher                                                11.7   1994           d
Other                                                8.3    1994            d
Sources
a              Commonwelth of Dominica, Demographic Statistics, 1993
b              The World Bank Atlas, 1995
C              Commonwealth of Dominica, Education Statistics, 1994
d              Budget Estimates of Dominica 1994/95
e              National Accounts Statistics of the Commonwealth of Dominica
iv



COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1   The Commonwealth of Dominica is one of the member countries of the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States (OECS), with a current population of 71,1831. A small island economy with difficult
terrain, a paucity of financial and human resources, and a narrow production base (primarily bananas),
Dominica is also subject to natural disasters. Production of bananas, the main agricultural crop, is not
competitive with Central American bananas and exports depend upon preferential access to the United
Kingdom under the Lome Convention. The Government which came into power in 1980 confronted
major rehabilitation efforts following hurricane damage. Reconstruction of infrastructure was financed
with the assistance of donors, including IDA. This reconstruction program was accompanied by a
stabilization program supported by the IMF. The reforms brought about improvement in public finances,
but these were temporary and did not invoke a sufficient response from the rest of the economy.
1.2   The stagnation of the economy in 1985 (GDP growth of 1.3% compared with 5.5% in 1984),
due mainly to diminished agricultural and manufacturing exports, prompted the launch of a Structural
Adjustm-ent Program in 1986. During the first two years of the program, macroeconomic targets were
exceeded. The end of 1989, however, marked a shift in the performance of the economy and the
Government's ability to respond rapidly to changes in the external environment. Hurricane "Hugo"
(September 1989) caused considerable damage to banana production and exports, slowing growth
significantly. Additionally, with the turn of the decade, unfavorable movements in the pound
sterling/EC$ exchange rate had a negative impact on export performance. Fiscal discipline weakened as
the Government granted a large civil service wage increase of 21% and started financing major
investment projects through borrowing from domestic banks and bilateral agencies. In 1994 the
Government managed to improve its fiscal performance slightly by stepping up its tax collections,
reducing the size of civil service through attrition by about 8% and containing its expenditure on goods
and services. Tourism has also expanded recently and there are reasons for some cautious optimism.
However, the country is still facing a difficult period of economic transition coupled with a stringent
fiscal situation worsened by severe storm damages to infrastructure and agriculture occurred during the
1995 hurricane season. The indications are that, while the situation is difficult, Dominica needs to invest
its way out of the problem.
1.3   To this end, the Government recognizes that it must accelerate diversification while rapidly
increasing the efficiency of banana production. The success of this desired economic transition will
depend in part on human resource development, to ensure the labor force required for an increasingly
competitive international economy. To secure the requisite modem labor force, standards of education
and learning must be raised significantly. This will necessitate a major reform of its education sector,
with special attention to enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the system, and the equity of
access to educational opportunities.
'Figure from the 1991 National Census
I



2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Current Educational Situation
2.1    Despite the severe fiscal crisis, Government commitment to education in Dominica is strong.
As a proportion of total government expenditure, Dominica has allocated, on average, just over 17
percent of its recurrent budget to education annually over the 1989-1994 period, a level generally above
world averages. However, recurrent expenditure in the education sector over the period rose at a slower
pace (44.8 percent) than the total recurrent budget, (56.6 percent). The sector suffered its share of budget
cuts, especially in areas such as maintenance of school plant and the provision of school supplies and
materials that can entail long term weaknesses. Yet, universal coverage at the primary level has been
attained, with a gross enrollment rate of 121.2% in 1994/5 representin g an enrollment in public and
private schools of 14,320 pupils compared to a 5-11 cohort of 11,818.
2.2    The primary network consists of 59 public schools (of which 5 are government assisted) and 5
private schools. Though primary school coverage has increased, the actual number of children enrolled
in primary schools has been falling slightly but steadily in recent years (amid a slowdown in population
growth to a current annual negative rate of 0.3% percent) from a peak enrollment of 16,833 in the
1984/85 academic year (Annex 2, Figure IA). At present population growth rates, the 5-14 age group is
projected to decline further until around the Year 2001, and then remain more or less constant.
Table 1.1: Primary Level Enrollment
(Including JSP)
2 0 0 0 0   _ ..- ...     ..~;.\\..
15000                               _ _ _ _ _ _
10000                                                     lNo. of lnfantsj
5000         *
'O)  (D    r    CO    ) O 0           cN   ce          L )
cOD  coD    D   CD   CO   0)   0>   0)   0)   0)   0)
.    Lo   cD   I      0-  CD 0)   0  N-      e 
COD  CD    o    CD  COD  OCD   0)   0)   0)   0)   0)
Source: Commonwealth of Dominica, Education Statistics, 1994
2.3    The attainment of almost universal coverage at the primary level, however, masks serious
inequities in access to learning opportunities. A recently completed school mapping exercise, observed
the under-utilization of many facilities (with the notable exception of the schools in the North-West )
while many of the schools of the capital (Roseau) are overcrowded. Much of the physical infrastructure
is in poor condition, in some cases posing safety and health dangers to children and teachers. About 25%
2The approximately 21 percent excess enrolltnent over population appears to be due to the repetition rate, to a small
number of children under the age of five enrolled in primary school, and to the enrollment of students of age
12+ , including 1,976 students enrolled in the three years of the Junior Secondary Program (JSP), in the
primnary "all-age" schools.
2



of a total of 554 classrooms at primary level should be replaced, and about 35% are in need of serious
rehabilitation works.
2.4    Serious access problems exist at the secondary level of the education system, with transition
rates from primary to secondary education among the lowest in the OECS. Of every 1,000 children
entering primary school, only about 400 continue their education into the secondary cycle. In 1994/95,
only 4,289 students were accommodated in the nation's 13 public secondary schools (which comprise 5
government and 8 government-assisted), (Annex 2, Table 1C) while the only private secondary school
accommodated an additional 222, altogether representing about 54 percent (net of repeaters over 16
years of age) of the 12-16 age cohort. There is also an uneven distribution of school places (the 13
public schools are located in only 5 of the 10 parishes) with high concentration of schools--about 47% of
the places-- in the Roseau area, thus imposing high school transport costs on families living in areas of
the island more remote from the capital.
2.5    The low transition rates from primary to secondary reflect constraints in the supply of secondary
places, not in the demand for them. This demand has been met in recent years, by expanding existing
schools or converting lower cycle junior secondary schools into five-year schools (Annex 2, Table 4).
The 98 percent completion rate for those who enter secondary schools reflects the high value attached to
such education by those students who gain entry and their families.
2.6    Notwithstanding progress made to date in expanding access to secondary education, the overall
shortfall in places remains significant. With a current cohort of secondary school age (i.e., 12-16 years)
of some 7,500 youth, even with the planned addition of 735 secondary places under this proposed
project, universal coverage would not be attainable until well into the first decade of the next century
unless significant additional resources can be mobilized and/or efficiency measures instituted to release
resources for further expansion of places.
2.7   In the light of the shortage of secondary school places, access to secondary education depends, as
in the other OECS countries and elsewhere in the Caribbean, on performance in the competitive
Common Entrance Examination (CEE) (Annex 2, Table 2A), commonly known as the 11+ exam, given
at the end of Standard 7, equivalent to Grade 6. Since only about one in two children gains entry to
secondary education, the stakes on this exam are exceptionally high, as perceived by students, parents
and teachers alike. Consequently, succeeding in the CEE becomes the driving force of primary
education, particularly at the upper grade levels, thereby substantially distorting teaching practices away
from mastery of the curricula and toward the areas to be tested by the exam.
2.8    Each year significant numbers of the children who do not win a place in the secondary school
continue in all-age primary schools enrolled in the Junior Secondary Program (JSP) which is
supplemented by practical subject centers for home economics and industrial arts. For the vast majority
of these students, this schooling reflects the terminal point in their formal education, except for a
fortunate few who receive a second chance in the 14+ exam known as the Dominica Junior Secondary
Program Examination (JSPE), on the results of which they may be placed in available places at the Form
3 level at regular secondary schools, in effect repeating one year of schooling, thus graduating from
Form 5 one year later than if they had entered through the CEE.3
3In 1994 about 600 candidates sat the exam and only 120 gained access to Fonn III in the five-year secondary
school cycle.
3



2.9    The shortages of qualified teachers in the upper grades at the all-age schools, coupled with the
noted lower standards applied in the curricula, suggest limited value-added to the education of youth
within the program, thus also exacerbating problems of their absorption into the labor force upon leaving
school.
B. The Organizational Structure and Institutional Framework
2.10   As in other countries in the sub-region, the education system of Dominica is organized into four
principal levels--pre-school, primary, secondary and tertiary education (Annex 2, Chart 1). For the
purposes of this Report, Basic Education comprises the primary grades (age 5-11) and the lower cycle of
secondary education (age 12-14). Pre-school education is voluntary and still in its early stages of
development. In 1992-1993, 2,369 children were enrolled in pre-school programs, which are privately
financed, with a small Government contribution (EC$ 42,000 in the 1994/95 Estimates) to selected
centers. Compulsory education applies to children aged 5-15. The primary level comprises seven grades
called "standards", ending at "Standard 7" which corresponds to Grade 6 in the international
terminology.4
2.11   Those students who obtain the best scores on the CEE taken at the end of Grade 7 are assigned to
secondary schools where they pursue a five-year course of study, organized into Forms 1-5. Upon
completion of Form 5, those students who perform well enough in the Caribbean Examinations Council
(CXC) and/or the General Certification Examination (GCE) have the option of moving into tertiary
education; the remainder move into the labor market.
2.12   At the tertiary level, the Clifton Dupigny College (CDC) offers associate degree courses in Arts
and Applied Arts and Science and Applied Sciences, courses towards Craftsman and Technician
certificates and classes in Adult and Continuing Education. The Teacher Training College (TTC) offers
GCE advanced level courses, towards a Teacher's Diploma. Those students wishing to pursue more
advanced studies attend overseas institutions, colleges and universities.
2.13   Primary responsibility for educational policy and programs is vested in the Ministry of
Education, Youth Affairs and Sports (MOE). Beyond its role in formulating education policy and
standards, it oversees operation of the school system, consistent with its mandate under a pre-
independence Education Ordinance.
2.14   Organizationally, the Ministry comprises seven sections: Administration (Personnel and
Accounts), Education, Sports, Library Services, Tertiary Education, Project Development and Youth
Affairs(Annex 2, Chart 2). The Administration Section is responsible for all financing and budgeting
activities of the sector. The Education Section is under the management of the Chief Education Officer
(CEO), assisted by a team of professional and support staff, including two Senior Education Officers
(Secondary and Teacher Training College}, an Education Officer (EO)/Coordinator for Curriculum, a
Coordinator for TechnicalVocational Education, six Assistant Education Officers who are subject
specialists (family life education, music, special education, physical education and arts and crafts) and
four District Education Officers (DEOs) responsible for overseeing primary school operations in their
4 Ihis is because the infants (ages 5 and 6) effectively go through a kindergarten and Grade I stage in the first two
years, but these are counted as two standards in Dominica.
4



assigned district--North, East, South and West. 5 Under the direct management of the CEO are a small
examinations unit, a statistics assistant, and a Stores and Supplies clerk.
2.15   The most serious obstacle to improvement in the sector lies in the weakness of the MOE Head
Office. The Ministry has offered a modicum of leadership to the school system only through the
dedicated work of a small number of persons. Supporting a reform will require significant strengthening
of the MOE staff at all levels. The various technical services of MOE (curriculum, statistics, testing etc.)
lack basic equipment and trained specialists and are grossly understaffed. Strengthening school
supervision to play an important role in leading the system towards reform and greater efficiency, will
require appropriately trained administrative and curriculum supervisors, and a rational and duly applied
system of annual evaluation of teachers and principals that encourages good performance. This will
require the elimination of anomalies such as the salary of the Senior Education Officer (secondary) being
graded below that of the secondary school principals that the SEO supervises. Inadequate education data
collection, processing and reporting, and feedback to the system has hampered the development of
planning functions. Financial and personnel management suffer similar weaknesses in terms of the level
of staff, training and equipment. Finally, overall, MOE is badly housed in the Governmental
Headquarters building, coping with serious shortage of office and storage space , and modern office
equipment.
2.16   The role played by the church in education in Dominica is significant. Although there are only
five assisted denominational primary schools, compared to 54 Government schools, these five account
for almost 20 percent of public school enrollment. At secondary level, however, there are eight assisted
denominational schools (compared to five Government schools) accounting for 47 percent of public
school enrollment.
5A fifth post of EO/Pre-school is sanctioned but has remained vacant
5



3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. Issues
(1) Quality and Effectiveness of Teaching and Learning
3.1    Student Achievement. Educational testing to date has been conducted on a national basis only
in the form of terminal examinations of attainment or aptitude, with the results serving some screening
purpose for admission to the next level of education or, in the case of the CXC examination and some
craft and technician exams, for entry into jobs as well. Hence, no reliable indicators exist to measure the
quality of primary or secondary education within the respective cycle, either in individual schools or
across schools. There is no professionally designed test of achievement at the end of each grade and,
hence, no marker of an individual student's mastery of subject matter until the end of the cycle, when the
CEE selects students for available secondary places on the basis of their score. In addition, the absence
of a statistical unit and full time testing staff within the MOE, hampers the production of comparative
data of achievement across schools and years.
3.2    Student scores on the CEE suggest low overall achievement levels. CEE scores also indicate
wide disparities in student achievement and hence, most likely, in teaching and learning quality across
schools and districts. Review of the overall performance of candidates for the period 1989-1993, reveals
that girls are outperforming boys in all subjects on the CEE. The percentage of boys "passing" the CEE
is consistently below of the percentage of boys in the group that sat the examination, suggesting some
kind of under-achievement on the part of this gender group. (Annex 2, Table 2A)
3.3    As at the primary level, inadequate information exists to adequately assess the quality of
secondary education. Students with the highest scores on the CEE are assigned to available secondary
places. The relatively high secondary school completion rates belie the significant obstacles to learning
that most encounter, including a large proportion of untrained teachers and inadequate equipment and
supplies in key subject areas, such as the sciences, and the poor condition of some physical plant.
Roseau secondary schools enroll the highest CEE ranking students and tend to achieve the highest
average CXC score.
3.4    Like the CEE, the CXC, is an imperfect measure of student achievement or the overall quality of
education. Table 2 Annex 2B provides data on CXC subject passes in selected secondary schools for
1984 and 1992. Generally there has been a decline in pass rates, denoting low levels of student mastery
of cuITicula throughout the system. Significant inter-school differentials exist in student achievement
and, thus, possibly in education quality. One Roseau school, for example, although showing a decline in
passing rates over the period, displayed the lowest fall in rates, submitted 61 percent more student per
course entries in 1992 compared to 1984, and performed well above the national average. While pre-
selection of students through the CEE must be a factor in the superior performance, there is also the
advantage of a larger supply of university trained teachers at that school and of better provisions of
supplies and materials.
6



3.5    An important equity issue in Dominica concerns the provision for education of the population
residing in the poorer sections of the island. Small rural schools are often at disadvantage coping with
the system-wide weak provision of trained teachers and supplies . A case in question is that of the
minority Carib population. The Caribs (about 3,000 people) reside largely in the reserved territory in the
North-East of the country. The four primary schools serving this territory (Atkinson, Salybia, Sineku,
and Concord) suffer from a shortage of trained teachers and a particularly deficient supply of materials
and books, accentuated by the absence of parental means to purchase books. Thus, the schools are ill-
equipped to deliver a primary program that would allow Carib children to compete on equal terms with
their fellow students for secondary school places. In 1994 a total of 79 children from the Carib area sat
the CEE and only 9 (II percent) were able to enter the secondary program, compared to 48 percent
nation-wide.
3.6    Factors Contributing to Low Achievement.    No systematic analysis has been undertaken of
the causes of low student performance in many schools. Existing information, however, suggests several
key contributing factors. These include: (a) quantitative and qualitative problems with regard to major
education system inputs, particularly the teaching cadre, educational equipment and supplies, and
facilities; (b) inadequate supervision of instructional delivery by school supervisors and principals;
(c) poor articulation of curricula and educational standards within and between grades; (d) distortion of
the primary curriculum by the pressure of competition for secondary school places; and (e) weak
institutional capacity to plan, manage or monitor performance of a system that will respond to the needs
of students of wide ability ranges.
3.7    Teacher Qualifications. Project preparatory studies have highlighted a state of crisis with regard
to the quality of teachers and teaching throughout basic education. High proportions of unqualified
teachers are engaged in the system--only 37 percent at primary level are trained. At secondary level,
only 28 percent of the teachers have university degrees and many of these (62 percent) have not been
professionally trained. The situation is particularly critical at the primary level, adversely affecting
teaching and learning in the core subjects--English, mathematics, social studies and sciences.
3.8    The TTC has ten full-time teacher trainers for the compulsory subjects, and six part-time trainers
for the optional courses. Of the full-time staff, four hold a Master's degree, while the other six have
completed a Bachelor's degree program. All of them need to be trained in the training of teachers. The
science and language laboratories of the Department are short of equipment and supplies, and the library
is short of audio-visual aids and reading materials for both the trainees and the tutors. The TTC program
is a two year one. Trainees spend roughly four of the six school terms within the college; the last two
terms are spent in practice teaching in the schools after which the trainees return to the TTC for a few
weeks to review the work they have done and take the final examinations.
3.9    The conclusion of observers within the system is that the performance of the bulk of trained
teachers, in terms of their mastery of content and method, is barely distinguishable from that of untrained
teachers. Several factors, other than the difficult conditions under which the college operates, contribute
to such a poor outcome:
(a)    the UWI curricular requirements that are not well related to realities in the schools, with
too much emphasis placed on research;
(b)    the inability of the Ministry (for whom the teachers are being trained) to influence
program content, and
7



(c)   the insufficiency of supervised practice teaching in the training program.
3.10   Throughout the system, teacher performance is also adversely affected by poor working
conditions. The lack of basic educational materials and equipment to complement and support classroom
teaching and learning, and of minimum physical plant requirements, including electricity, water and
sanitation facilities, constitutes an obstacle to efficient performance. In some schools, especially the
most disadvantaged ones in terns of resources, teacher absenteeism and attrition rates are marked, the
latter particularly problematic among many younger, better qualified teachers who have employment
alternatives. Partly because of low morale, teachers are said to resort excessively to taking sick leave
and traditionally many of them take a day off--in effect a self-given paid holiday-- on pay-day at the end
of the month to settle their bills.
3.11   In Dominica, as elsewhere in the OECS, most candidates for primary teacher training are drawn
from the teaching service, that is from among those already employed by the MOE. The generally low
academic qualifications for entry into the system limit the number of candidates who can easily master
the curriculum of the TTC. The average trainee barely attains the passing grade in the final examination
of the teacher training program; thus, the comparatively high unit cost of teacher training has limited
payoff, in fact perpetuating a vicious cycle of low achievement among primary school students, because
in part, they are being taught by many teachers who, even when trained, have limited attainment
themselves. Finally, teacher training problems are compounded by the limited outreach of the teacher
trainers and the limited availability of in-service training programs for the trained teachers upon their
return to the education system
3.12   More rigorous teacher training program admission requirements, such as at least four CXC
passes, including English and Mathematics, are needed. Complementary steps will need to be taken to
raise the entry level for recruitment into the teaching profession, and establish some greater MOE
influence (as employer) over the training program.
3.13   Perfornance Evaluation.     Educational research has shown that the quality of education is
highly correlated with the intensity of supervision and monitoring and feedback in the system. In
recognition of this, Dominica is preparing measures to strengthen performance monitoring of the public
servants generally. For example, a new reporting form has recently been introduced. The institution of
regular, system-wide school performance review is necessary. Although some performance evaluations
of teachers and principals are conducted, allowing, in theory, for follow-up action in case the teachers in
question did not improve their performance, in practice, the system does not carry much weight and it is
not rigorously applied.
3.14   Curricula.    The Curriculum Unit is charged with developing curricula, teaching materials,
and tests. The Unit is seriously understaffed for its functions and responsibilities, and has no technical
expertise in production and publishing of educational materials and design of tests. The staff comprises
one EO, an Assistant EO, and a secretary. The lack of modern equipment and functional office space
hampers the efforts of the unit. With the exception of science at secondary level, none of the other
syllabi has been fully developed and implemented. Trained curriculum specialists are needed in each of
the core curricular areas--science, social studies, mathematics and English.
3.15   In Dominica, as in other OECS countries, teaching tends to focus on basic facts with limited
attention given to developing critical thinking skills or fostering student research and investigation, even
in such subjects as science. Expert analysis has indicated that particular attention should be paid to the
8



language arts policy, especially to the potential in the primary school years to build bridges between
English, the official language of Dominica, and the French and English creoles most commonly spoken
by the students.
3.16   Curricula at both the primary and secondary levels have become overloaded. In an attempt to
respond to demands for more diversified courses, particularly in the technical and vocational areas,
subjects have been added in an ad hoc manner, without adequate attention to their cost implications or
the integrity of the whole curriculum. As a result, primary schools are insufficiently focused on the
basic, core subjects. The curriculum needs to be coordinated between levels and consolidated to avoid
the tendency towards proliferation of subjects and the consequent high cost of covering a too fragmented
curriculum, particularly at secondary level.
3.17   Educational Materials. MOE has prepared a list of approved school text books which are
produced by the major British publishers. Published prices for books are fixed by these publishers in the
United Kingdom, with annual price increases that often exceed the local inflation rate without any real
control by the MOE or the local booksellers. There is also no control on the mark-up on textbooks and
other imported books, although indications are that it is set at an average of 25 percent over the
published price. The burden posed by the cost of textbooks on families is heavy. Although the recent
standardization of basic textbooks and the sale and purchase of used ones helped to alleviate the pressure
on family budgets, in some primary schools in the outlying areas the majority of pupils do not have all
the books required. This problem is particularly acute in the schools of the Carib territory where it is
exceptional for children to have any books. In the secondary schools the situation is less severe as a
result of the Government grant of scholarships and bursaries to about 900 students, amounting to
approximately US$175,000 equivalent per year.
3.18   The Government, has indicated its desire to provide free text books in all primary and secondary
schools. In view of the current fiscal constraints, this proposal requires careful analysis of the scope of
coverage intended ( range of subjects, grade levels, number of books per student) and the management
arrangements--accounting, distribution, and financial--required under various options that might be
entertained. A study of the issue will be required in order to fully assess the intended scale and nature of
the textbook supply mechanism that could be successfully applied to Dominica. The management,
institutional, and logistical arrangements required by a subsidy scheme should be carefully weighed,
together with the associated costs.
3.19   Supplementary reading materials and various forms of teaching apparatus are urgently needed to
support teachers in the early grades, if standards of student and teacher performance are to be raised.
Expert review suggests that it would be feasible to establish a nucleus of a unit for preparing and
producing such materials to supplement what can be purchased in the stores, to determine Government's
procurement policy on such materials, and to contribute to any sub-regional effort in production of such
materials, especially at primary level.
3.20   To fulfill its significant potential to produce supportive educational materials, particularly at the
primary level, and thus contribute to desired improvements in the quality of education, MOE requires: (i)
technical staff capacity in educational materials editing and publishing, which will assist the Ministry to
become more market-wise in its contracting processes; (ii) furniture, equipment and supplies to permit to
desk top publishing, as appropriate, as well as advance the publishing readiness of material it produces,
thereby reducing costs of external publication and manufacturing; (iii) improved methods of selection of
9



textbooks from the broad choices available on the international market which are responsive to the CXC
syllabi.
3.21   Testing and Measurement.    MOE designs and administers the CEE and the JSPE, and
administers the external examinations (i.e. CGE, CXC). The Curriculum Unit is charged with the CEE,
the Technical-Vocational officer with the JSPE, and the Examinations Unit with the administration of
the CXC and CGE. The CEE is designed by a committee within MOE on the basis of the content of
primary school syllabi. The tests are printed and scored entirely in Dominica. A team of teachers marks
the scripts and the marks are processed in the Government Computer Center. The need exists for a
professionally designed testing system to improve the CEE and to expand the testing program to include
at least one national test within the primary cycle (about two years before the CEE) and one within the
secondary cycle (at Form 3 level), thus facilitating the diagnosis of learning and teaching problems in
time to take corrective measures.
3.22   Schools Library Service.   The Public Library Service in Dominica is under the direction of
MOE. Aware of the poor reading situation, especially in rural areas, the government instituted the
School Library Extension Scheme (SLS) to serve the schools, beginning with the primary schools. The
SLS provides technical assistance to the schools in the establishment of varying types of book
collections and training of teachers in the management of the materials. To date 16 primary schools
have been assisted through this program. Services are also offered to 19 rural schools by the single
Mobile Library Unit which visits the schools on a two week circuit offering loan services to the
students.
3.23   SUpplieS.    The Stores Clerk, who reports directly to the CEO, places catalog bulk orders for
basic supplies for all public primary schools during the month of July. The supplies are then stored in a
rented building and delivered to the schools twice a year at the beginning of a new term, depending on
the availability of the truck owned by MOE. Only one percent of the recurrent budget for education is
spent in supplies, clearly not satisfying the pressing needs of the schools. Each Government secondary
school has its own provision for supplies in the budget estimates but the release of these funds must be
approved by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The supply of materials to the schools on a regular basis is
needed in order to provide a more suitable learning and teaching environment; however, under the
present stringent fiscal situation, the funding should come from a gradual reallocation of sector budget
resources.
3.24   State of Physical Plant. The current state of much of the physical plant is not conducive to
adequate teaching or learning. Many primary schools were constructed in the l 970s when, with
substantial assistance from the Canadian Government, the country embarked on a major education
expansion program. The two decades that have since passed, with minimal maintenance or repair of
facilities, have taken their toll. Deterioration is widespread, with half of all schools in need of repair or
renovation with regard to plumbing, roofing, ceilings, electrical wiring, corrosion of metal frames and
columns (exacerbated by constant sea blast), drainage, lighting and fencing. Many lack working toilets.
3.25   School maintenance jobs are contracted out to private firms, under the oversight of the MOE's
maintenance unit, which includes a Project Supervisor and two regional maintenance officers, one for the
Southem and Eastem and one for the Northem and Westem education districts. In actuality, the limited
budgetary allocation to maintenance, coupled with limitations on the monthly travel allowance permnitted
for these maintenance officers, severely circumscribes preventive as well as repair-oriented maintenance
of plant.
10



(2) Efficiency of the Educational System
3.26   Current teacher to student ratios in public schools are 1:21.6 at the primary level and 1:16.6 at
the secondary level. The primary ratio exceeds the reasonable Government prescribed standard of 1:35.
At the secondary level, in schools without a sixth Form, a ratio of 1:25 would be more appropriate. The
relatively high existing ratios reflect the absence of close monitoring of costs and efficiency and the lack
of detailed planning and programming in regard to school enrollments and the recruitment and
deployment of teachers.
3.27   High teacher to student ratios have exacted a heavy financial as well as qualitative toll on the
education system. The high proportion of the recurrent education budget expended on salary and other
personal emoluments (representing about 97 percent of recurrent allocations to primary schools in
1993/94), seriously constrains resource availability for other key educational inputs, particularly
improved management, educational equipment and supplies, and the maintenance of school plant and
equipment. Extensive research has shown that, except at the extremes, lower teacher to student ratios do
not adversely affect either the quality of education provided or the levels of learning and achievement.
3.28   The implications of the proposed reductions in teacher to student ratios are significant. At the
primary level, there will be a continuing decline in enrollments over the next few years, reflecting
demographic change. Consequently the demand for teachers will decline. Special measures will,
therefore, need to be carefully programmed to cope with the reduced demand for primary school places.
At the very least, there will be a need to reduce sharply the recruitment of new teachers over a period of
about five years, to transfer some primary teachers to the secondary level, and to adopt revised strategies
for teacher training, focusing on attaining a 100 percent trained service and improving educational
standards.
3.29   On the other hand, the implications of not effecting these changes to the ratios are serious. In
their absence, either qualitative improvements such as those to be supported under the Basic Education
Reform Project will not be able to be financed, or the Government will have to raise the education sector
share of the national budget, which is highly unlikely given current and projected fiscal constraints
associated with the banana crisis.
(3) Equity of Access to Educational Opportunities
3.30   Significant gender inequalities in access to education exist in Dominica, as elsewhere in the
OECS. Of increasing social concern are the gender differentials in student achievement, commencing at
the primary level, with girls outperforming boys on the CEE and subsequently at the CXC (Annex 2,
Tables 2A, 2B). On the basis of the CEE raw scores used to select students for secondary places, girls
are securing the predominant share of such places, comprising 57.8 percent of public secondary
enrollment in 1994/95. Neither the underlying causes nor the long term consequences of this
phenomenon are known, but the potential negative ramifications for economic and social development
warrant careful study.
11



3.31   Poorer families face special geographic constraints to access to good quality education. The
heavy concentration of secondary schools in Roseau limits their availability to many poor, rural families.
At the same time, the weak CEE performance of many students attending schools outside Roseau
restricts their access to secondary education.
3.32   While public education is provided free, with no official Government imposed tuition fee, other
annual education-related expenditures which must be borne by the household can be considerable. These
include uniforms, school bus transport, which can average over US$400 equivalent per student per
academic year; textbooks and other educational materials which outlays have been estimated to range
from around US$100 per student at the primary level to US$370 equivalent at the secondary level; and
various levies imposed by individual secondary schools.
B. Government Sectoral Policy and Financing
3.33   Education Polcy.     National development policy for the education sector has been
elaborated in various documents. The most recent one, the Government's Medium-Term Strategy Paper
of April 1994, consistent with the OECS Education Reform Strategy, emphasizes the provision of skills
to the labor force to increase labor productivity and facilitate economic diversification. To achieve these
results, "higher" priorities are given to organization and management concerns of the sector ministry as
well as to increase the ratio of expenditures on supplies and equipment in education budgets. The
primary and secondary school curricula will be revised, and made more uniform throughout the system.
More classroom places will be made available at the seconidary school level, giving priority to expanding
existing high perfortning schools". The Paper mentions also the need to increase the average primary
student to teacher ratio to at least 30:1.
3.34   The new Government that came into power in June 1995 is developing its sector policy.
However, it has indicated support for the priorities inherent in the project: expanding access to school
places, improving the quality of sector management and of teaching, and improving the supply of
materials and maintenance services to the schools.
3.35   Notwithstanding the political commitment to sector reform, it will be necessary to undertake
institutional and policy reforms to attain desired improvements in the effectiveness and efficiency of the
system, and enhance equity of access to educational opportunities and, ultimately, learning outcomes.
The current weakness in the administration of the sector suggests the need to increase the number of
senior level staff, to establish a permanent capacity for the conduct of sector planning, efficiency studies,
and implementation of project and program, and to establish discrete units for curriculum development,
testing and measurement and education materials. Proposed changes in structure are shown in Annex 3,
Chart 3.
3.36   Sector Financing.    Annual outlays in education over the past five years have averaged
around 17 percent of total recurrent expenditures 6 while the sector provision in the 1994/5 Estimates
amounted to 17.1 percent of the national total (Annex 3, Tables I and 2). The share of the public budget
allocated to education is not likely to increase significantly over the near term. Thus, the Government
6 This does not include the subvention to the University of the West Indies--UWI
12



recognizes the need to assign high priority to improving the efficiency of use of education sector
resources.
3.37   Traditionally, approximately 60 percent of recurrent education expenditures was allocated to
primary, and 20 percent to secondary. However, since at least 1990/91 there have been modest
fluctuations in the allocations to secondary education, including a rise to about 28 percent of the
recurrent budget. This increase reflects in part the expansion of enrollment due to the expansion of
secondary places, with the phasing out of some technical-vocational programs at Goodwill and St.
Martin's schools. According to the 1994/95 Estimates the sub-sector shares of the sector budget
(including the contribution to UWI), were as follows:
Percent of
Sub-Sector                                Amount             Total
EC$
Administration                           1,717,530           5.7%
Pre-Primary                                 42,000           0. 1%
Primary (Including Special Educ.)       15,727,180          52.7%
Secondary (Govt. and Assisted)           8,144,480          27.3%
Tertiary (CDC,TTC and UWI)               3,495,775          11.7%
Public Library                            648,930            2.5%
TOTAL                                  29,775,895          100.0%
Source: Dominica Budget Estimates 1994/95 (including the vote for the contribution to UWI)
3.38   In the absence of a proper plan for the sector, it is impossible to forecast the evolution of these
intra-sectoral allocations. In the public financing of primary and secondary schools, the mix of salary
and non-salary allocations is grossly inefficient. Salaries consume 97 percent of total recurrent
allocations to primary schools and 95 percent of the allocations to secondary government schools.
3.39   Significant variations exist in the per student recurrent expenditure by level of education. Unit
costs in 1994/95 were US$419 equivalent per student at the primary level, and US$652 equivalent at the
secondary government level . Differences exist among Government secondary schools, ranging from
Dominica Grammar with US$709 equivalent per student to Goodwill with U$367 equivalent. Ironically,
the Assisted secondary schools, have generally a much higher per student cost financed by the
Government than the Government schools (Annex 3, Table 3B).
3.40   Capital investment on education represented about 7 percent of the Government's capital budget
in 1994/95, in line with the OECS regional average. The focus of past investment programs has been
rehabilitation or extension of primary and secondary schools.
13



4. SECTORAL ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Bank's Role and Strategy
4.1   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the OECS countries, including Dominica (Report
No.14295-LAC dated April 10, 1995), falls within the parameters of the regional OECS assistance
strategy. The Bank continues to rely on the coordinating role of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development (CGCED) for the implementation of economic and sector work and financial
assistance in the region, and on close cooperation with the CDB. In recognition of the small size of the
OECS economies, the World Bank Group provides its lending on a 50/50 IDAfIBRD blend.
4.2   The Bank seeks to support the Government efforts aimed at: (i) accelerating private sector-led
economic diversification; (ii) restructuring the banana industry, improving competitiveness and
agriculture diversification (iii) restructuring the public sector to ensure sustained adequate levels of
public savings, while promoting greater regional collaboration; (iv) promoting human resource
development and poverty alleviation; and (v) sustaining natural resource management. To these ends, the
Bank is pursuing a three-pronged approach in Dominica, as elsewhere in the sub-region. First, through
the Economic and Sector Work (ESW), it is providing intellectual leadership, in collaboration with the
IMF and CDB, to strengthen the institutional capacity of the country to identify priority policies and
programs and effectively implement them. Second, the Bank is strengthening CDB capacity in human
resource development and environmental management, so that in full partnership with the Bank, it
increasingly can undertake ESW and lending in these key development areas, including the channeling of
increased Bank resources to these sectors through CDB. Third, the Bank is proactive in donor
coordination, including mobilizing the scarce external financing available to OECS countries, the main
forum for which coordination will continue to be the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development (CGCED).
4.3   The proposed project supports fully the CAS targeting the priority area of human resource
development, catalyzing an education sector adjustment process to improve efficiency of public resource
use and providing a reform that is consistent with the regional efforts being adopted elsewhere in the
OECS sub-region. Through sector analysis carried out during the preparatory phase, the Bank has
sought to strengthen Dominica's institutional capacity to identify and implement priority development
policies and programs. To this end, with financial support from a grant from the Government of Japan,
multi-disciplinary teams comprising international consultants and a consulting firm, local consultants
and local counterparts, assessed in depth key issues within the education sector, and collaboratively
identified cost-effective approaches to address them.
4.4   The project is one segment in a larger program of assistance to the other four active Bank
member countries in the OECS -- St. Lucia, Grenada, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and St. Kitts and
Nevis -- to meet their human resource development needs. A Loan and a Credit were approved in
January 1995 for a Basic Education Reform Project (3837 SLU; CR2676 SLU) in St. Lucia which is
jointly financed by the Bank and CDB. In order to expedite subsequent lending operations it was agreed
between the two Banks that CDB would focus on St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, and the IBRD/IDA on the remaining two, Dominica and Grenada.
14



4.5    To further promote regional collaboration, project preparatory work has drawn heavily on
Caribbean technical expertise. The use of a common core of consultants across the OECS countries has
promoted exchange of ideas between countries. Moreover, such project preparation has been carried out
in close consultation with the OECS Secretariat, building on its extensive work to formulate and
implement an OECS Education Reform Strategy (OERS), to which the OECS Governments are
committed. The project emphasis on sector planning and institutional development, qualitative
improvement of basic education, and expansion of access to education reflects the priority actions
identified in the OERS.
4.6          The OERS envisages activities at both the national and regional level. Unexpected
delays occurred in establishment of the regional machinery. However, at their meeting in Montserrat in
November 1993, the OECS Governments agreed that the national governments should proceed with their
own urgently needed education investment programs, consistent with the Reform objectives. This
project is in keeping with that decision. The proposed investments also are consistent with priority
sector development needs identified in the Bank report, "Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean
Education: A Regional Study," prepared at the request of member governments in the Caribbean,
discussed widely in the region, and formally presented at the June 1992 meeting of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED), and the request emanating from that CGCED
meeting for direct Bank technical and financial support to accelerate human resource development in this
region.
B. Bank Sector Experience and Lessons Learned
4.7    The Bank has had limited sector experience in Dominica and other OECS countries. Prior to the
St. Lucia project noted above (para 4.4), its only sector involvement was in support of the OECS
Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project, Credit 1785-CRG, in the amount of SDR 4.8
million (US$ 6.5 million equivalent) with a total project cost of US$ 13.5 million equivalent, co-financed
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the CDB, the latter of which also served as
project executing agency. The Credit was approved by the Board in 1987, became effective in 1987, and
the Credit was closed on June 30, 1994. While national coordinators were appointed by each of the five
participating OECS Governments, the locus of project implementation work was at CDB in Barbados.
Consequently, the OECS Governments, including Dominica, did not gain experience with Bank-financed
project execution, procurement, disbursement, and other procedures
4.8    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared for the Regional Vocational and
7
Technical Education Project.  Review to date indicates that the overall performance of the project was
mixed. Notable achievements include a substantial increase in technical and vocational education
capacity in the participating countries. Project investments also led to extensive overseas training of
technical and vocational teachers for the respective education systems. The pre-vocational curricula
developed under project auspices, though developed only for the first year of study and introduced too
late during the project implementation to be fully evaluated, holds promise of providing, with possible
adjustments, a solid orientation to technical fields.
7Report No 14404 Implementation Completion Report. Eastem Caribbean States. Fourth Caribbean
Development Bank. Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project (Credit 1785-CRG). April 28, 1995.
Human Resources Division, Country Department III, Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
15



4.9    Notwithstanding actual and potential contributions, the OECS project also experienced
significant problems. Many of the civil works experienced substantial delays in start-up and completion
of construction, leading to price increases and creating the need for long-term storage of equipment and
furniture delivered according to the original implementation schedule; and pervasive lack of maintenance
of new and rehabilitated facilities led, in the latter cases in particular, to facilities being virtually
indistinguishable within two years of completion of such civil works from those without any
"renovation." Problems also arose with regard to the quality and quantity of procured instructional
equipment, and as a result of insufficient attention to its commissioning and utilization. Many of the
problems relating to safety and security of equipment and civil works ultimately were successfully
addressed via an Action Plan collaboratively developed and implemented by the Bank and CDB.
Shortfalls in execution of other major project activities nevertheless hampered the full achievement of
project objectives. For example, the project laid the groundwork for labor market information systems to
provide needed linkages and feedback between technical/vocational training and the labor market; and
three countries produced labor bulletins. However, the lack of direct project financing for this, as well as
other "soft," institutional development-oriented areas, coupled with shortages of staff at the country-
level, hampered actual establishment of the planned systems, and the conduct of annual labor surveys on
which they depend. Weak consultant reports, and insufficient Government commitment or incentives,
led to abandonment of envisaged cost recovery and savings measures intended to ensure program
sustainability. Attempts were made to establish the envisaged Regional Training Board to coordinate
tech/voc programs across the OECS, building on experience gained by the project in establishing several
National Boards; few regional meetings were held. However, insufficient commitment to such a Board,
and insufficient project resources to build the requisite policy constituency, ultimately undermined such
efforts.
4.10   Lessons Leaned.     Review of this OECS project, as well as of education projects in Jamaica
(Second and Third Education Projects, respectively Loan 727-JM and Loan 2070-JM), Barbados (First
Education and Training Project, Loan 1642-BAR), and Haiti (Third Education Project, Credit 1305-HA)
reveals that it is essential to: (a) link project objectives to the broader sector and macro policy objectives
to enhance overall commitment to, and hence success in execution of, the project; (b) carefully evaluate
local procurement and project implementation capacities to ensure that adequate and timely institutional
support is available for the smooth operation of the project; (c) ensure on an annual basis that
Government budgets provide the requisite project financing so that the planned pace and breadth of
project activities can be sustained, and the project completed according to schedule; (d) involve all major
stakeholders in an education reform process (i.e., the Ministry staff, principals, teachers and teachers
unions, and parents and community groups) from the early stages of project design; and (e) readily,
ensure that the policy environment within which the project will operate is supportive of project
objectives and enables conduct of the needed systemic and institutional reforms.
4.11   These lessons are taken into account in the proposed project design. The project objectives are
drawn from the recommendations of the OECS Education Reform Strategy paper, endorsed by all OECS
member governments, the Bank's report "Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education: A
Regional Study" and experience gained during the preparation of the St. Lucia Basic Education Reform
Project. The preparatory phase included wide consultation with all major entities in the sector, including
the Teachers and civil service's unions, the teacher training college, private sector employers, the staff of
MOE. As civil works represent about 50 percent of total base costs, much attention was given in the
project preparatory phase to development of prototype designs which take into account local building
standards and experiences, and environmental (including climatic) and other factors. Emphasis also was
placed on preparation of preliminary drawings for all facilities to be financed under the project by a
16



respected international architectural firm with experience with Bank financed projects, to preclude the
significant civil works problems encountered under the earlier Vocational and Technical Education
Project in which excessive reliance was placed on the local Ministries of Public Works, which proved to
have limited institutional capacity to guide this process. The selection and methods for procurement of
educational equipment and furniture have been carefully assessed to ensure that detailed technical
specifications are developed with participation of end users, high quality-low cost sources are identified
and tapped, and comprehensive plans exist for operationalizing and pilot testing new equipment, and
training teachers in their appropriate use. All these measures should considerably reduce the risk of
repeating the serious problems in these areas encountered in the earlier OECS education project.
17



5. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
5.1    The proposed Basic Education Reform Project responds to a request from the Government of
Dominica to assist it in initiating a reform of its education system. The decision to focus the project on
the basic, compulsory education cycle, and agreement on the scope of a possible project were reached
over the course of extensive dialogue over the 1993-1995 period between Government officials and Bank
staff. The actual project content was defined and the components prepared over the 1994-1995 period in
discussions between the Government and the Bank with assistance from consultants financed by Policy
and Human Resource Development funds from the Government of Japan.
5.2    The project has the overall objective of accelerating human resource development to ensure that
the requisite manpower exists to attain the desired economic transition in Dominica. It supports the first
stage of a major reforn of basic education, aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the
education system, and at enhancing equity of access to educational opportunities. Thus the project
would: (a) strengthen the planning and institutional capacity of the MOE to guide and carry out the long-
term development of the sector, while enabling it to initiate significant, urgent measures to address
system-wide qualitative problems and expansion needs at the secondary level, and (b) serve as a catalyst
for a major adjustment process, focused on revision to more reasonable levels of primary and secondary
teacher to student ratios, in line with ratios of countries of comparable economic and social development.
Such adjustment is critical to ensure that the relatively high levels of resource allocations to public
education respond more effectively to current and projected needs, including increased financing for
system management, instructional equipment and supplies, school facilities and equipment
maintenance--areas which are now significantly under-financed. The planned adjustment is crucial to
ensure the financial sustainability of the reform. An analysis of the impact of this adjustment is provided
in the Appendix to Annex 3.
5.3    The project is based on the Government's sector development policy. At Negotiations,
agreement was reached on the general content of an Education Strategy Letter from the Government to
IBRD and IDA that would:
(a)    outline the Ministry's strategy for strengthening the management and planning of the
sector, including:
(i)    reorganization of the structure of the Ministry;
(ii)   the schedule of establishing new units with agreed functions and responsibilities,
and
(iii)    accelerated action on the EPU and PMU to create and staff them with
professionals with agreed qualifications;
(b)    indicate the government's plans with respect to the adjustment of teacher to student
ratios and the transfer of savings to strengthen management and the provision of
instructional supplies and maintenance services to schools. (Annex 3 Appendix).
(c)    elaborate the parallel policies that the Ministry would adopt to give full effect to the
reform, including:
18



(i)    policies on the standards for recruitment into the teaching profession and the
teacher training programs;
(ii)    criteria and procedures for the selection of persons to be awarded fellowships,
and
(iii)   the conduct and utilization of studies financed under the project,
B. Detailed Project Description
5.4    The project comprises three major components:
(a)    A Strengthening Management and Planning Component would help to: (i) reorganize the
management of the school system, upgrade staff, and improve coordination among key
MOE operating units; (ii) build planning capacity and analysis and formulate a long-term
sector development plan; (iii) initiate development of an integrated education data
system to facilitate sector analysis, administration and management, and policy-making;
(iv) establish a permanent project development and management capacity within MOE;
and (v) finance special studies to assist in formulating future policies and program
developments.
(b)    A Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education Component would enhance the quality of
teaching and learning, through: (i) upgrading basic teacher training and revising and
intensifying in-service training for all teachers (with special attention to science,
mathematics, social studies, and language arts) and, concurrently, ensuring their more
appropriate utilization and job satisfaction through improved personnel supervision,
management and career development; (ii) formulating and adopting improved curricula
(especially in core subjects); (iii) establishing an educational testing and measurement
capacity to monitor student and system performance; (iv) identifying and instituting
more cost-effective methods of selection, production, procurement and distribution of
educational materials; and (v) providing support for the acquisition of textbook and
educational materials for the most disadvantaged schools (to include those serving the
Carib territory ). Further, this component would help strengthen the School Library
Service (SLS) by intensifying its activities in the northern area of Dominica.
(c)    An Expansion and Conservation of School Places Component would assist MOE to
provide more secondary school places in the most under-served districts to reduce long
distance travel and facilitate access to educational opportunities. The component would
also provide for the rehabilitation of selected primary and secondary schools and support
a new approach to systematic preventive maintenance and replacement of existing
school plant.
Strengthening Management and Planning Component
(US$1 million equivalent of base costs or 15 percent of total base costs)
5.5    The MOE needs to review its organization, procedures and functions with a view to
rationalizing the use of existing resources (human and financial) and improving its overall efficiency in
19



guiding the education system. As an urgent measure to facilitate improved education planning and
directly support project implementation, the MOE would establish an Educational Planning and
Development Section. The new section will comprise two units--an education planning and statistics
unit (EPU) and a project management unit (PMU). The proposed new organizational structure of the
MOE is provided in Annex 3, Chart 3.
5.6           Senior Management and Administration. The Government would establish two posts of
Assistant Chief Education Officer (ACEO), each to coordinate one aspect of the technical services of the
Ministry: one for planning and development, and the other for the school system. In order to strengthen
the administration, the Government would also establish two posts of executive Officer, one for
Accounting and the other for Personnel. The MOE will also add to its staff a Senior Education Officer
(SEO) to coordinate Primary Education. In order to assist the MOE (i) to better rationalize and utilize
sector resources; (ii) to identify and elaborate strategies to adapt, develop and modernize education
system administration consistent with the evolution of the sector, including revision, as appropriate, of its
laws and regulations; and (iii) to incorporate these strategies in the long term sector development plan,
the project would provide:
(a)    Expert services (4 months) to review the MOE management system and assist in the
implementation of reforms, as needed, to rationalize its administrative ,organization and
functions; to assess progress in its restructuring and provide recommendations for
improvements in its structure, staffing, procedures, etc.;
(b)    Study tours (4 months) for senior managers to review education reform processes in
other countries and attend relevant seminars and courses in such areas as effective
schools and education policy analysis;
(c)    Civil works for office space; s
(d)    Supplementary office equipment and supplies, to complement existing MOE equipment,
and literature and reference material for professional updating on educational
developments worldwide;9 and,
(e)    Selected studies on organizational and expenditure efficiency
5.7    Sector Planning.      To meet the challenges presented by the education reform process,
facilitate introduction of timely adjustments to the system, and foster closer interaction of education
systems across the OECS, the project would assist in establishing a properly staffed EPU of the MOE
responsible for planning ,statistics and research. The first tasks of EPU would include the preparation of
a long-term sector development plan for the period 1996-2005, the establishment and maintenance of a
data base concerning economic and social data for the sector, and the conduct of studies relating to the
efficiency of the sector.
vConstruction of office space for all new and for some existing units on the grounds of the Teacher Training
College. Office space requirements for the various units are detailed in Annex 5, Table 1.
Relevant literature and reading materials needed for all institutional strengthening and quality improvement
components are included under this area of project support. These materials would be consigned to the MOE
Documentation Center for optimal organizing and accessibility.
20



To these ends, the project would finance:
(a)    Fellowships (3 staff years) for three persons to pursue one-year advanced training, one in
educational planning, one in statistics and one in the economics of education, financial
analysis and operations research.
(b)    Expert services (4 months, concentrated in the first two years of project implementation)
to assist the EPU to identify and analyze key sub-sectoral and sectoral issues, establish
approaches to long range planning and lay the groundwork for the long-term sector plan;
(c)    Related office furniture, equipment and supplies, computers, related software and
printers, and equipment maintenance;
(d)    Local training't for staff in planning and statistics, and
(e)    Selected planning and policy related studies and surveys, including expenditure
efficiency and cost effectiveness in the sector.
5.8    Planning and policy-related studies and surveys would be carried out under the overall
coordination of the EPU, and would include, for the first two years of project implementation, studies
on: education and training implications of macro-economic and social development and labor market
demands (including the relationship of curricular trends to the requirements of higher education and the
labor market); teacher effectiveness and teacher attrition; and studies to support the analytical work of
other units. Studies for the third through fifth years of project implementation would be identified and
specified in the annual project work program, to be approved by IBRD/IDA.
5.9    Project Management and Development. A PMU would be established and maintained, with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, for the purpose of inter alia:
(a) coordination of project implementation; (b) project monitoring and evaluation; (c) preparation of the
requisite annual and mid-term project reports ;and (d) implementation of the MOE development
program. The PMU would absorb the existing Stores and Supplies and Maintenance units and would be
headed by a full-time Project Manager, assisted by two other full-time professional staff, a Procurement
Officer to oversee procurement, and an accountant to manage project accounts, and by clerical staff. The
administrative and operating procedures to be adopted for execution of the Basic Education Reform
Project would become, to the extent possible, the modus operandi of the MOE in the procurement of
goods and works, so far as these do not conflict with Government procedures. The Government has
agreed that the PMU will become part of the regular establishment of MOE for the implementation of
sector development projects, programs, and plans.
5.10   To support strengthened project management and development objectives, the project would
finance:
(a)    Five months of study tours, seminars or attachments for key PMU staff to gain
experience and skills in areas relevant to their responsibilities in the Unit, such as review
of operations of Education Project Management Units elsewhere in the Caribbean (e.g.
10 In general, where local training is to be financed under the project, eligible expenditures would include fees or
honoraria for tutors/trainers where necessary, travel and any necessary per diem allowance, cost of preparing
producing and procuring training materials and supplies and related transport costs.
21



Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad & Tobago), and/or to attend World Bank or CDB
seminars on topics such as disbursements, project accounting and procurement, and for
short-term attachment of the Procurement Officer to a suitable procurement agency for
training purposes;
(b)    Expert services (8 months) comprising 6 months of services of a Project Management
Expert to assist in project coordination and in setting up the PMU and establishing its
procedures and 2 months of services of a Procurement Expert to assist the PMU team at
critical points in the procurement process, and a lump-sum to help complete the auditing
requirements of the Project;
(c)    Related office furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers, related software,
printers, photocopier, etc., a van and a truck under the control of PMU to serve the
maintenance and procurement services, and equipment maintenance; and
(d)    Selected project evaluation studies.
Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education Component (US$2.5 million equivalent of base costs, or
36 percent of total base costs)
5.11   The generally poor quality of primary education constrains many students from fully benefiting
from a secondary education program, even when it is available to them. Hence, along with expanding
access to secondary schools, thus increasing educational opportunities, the project assigns high priority
to improving the quality of primary education, particularly in the core subject areas. This component,
encompassing improvement of major educational inputs--teachers, curricula, educational materials,
testing and measurement, and supervision--is expected to lead to significant improvements in educational
outcome in terms of learning and student achievement.
5.12   To contribute to the objective of enhancing educational quality and to provide a basis for more
effective participation of Dominica in the OECS Education Reform Strategy initiative, the project will
support six closely integrated and inter-dependent areas, (i) School supervision, (ii) Educational Testing
Measurement, (iii) Educational Materials Development, (iv) Curriculum Development, (v) Teacher
Training, and (vi) the Schools Library Service.
5.13   School Supervision.   The project seeks to strengthen the capacity of the school supervisory
service to supervise and guide secondary schools and to better monitor and assist primary and
secondary schools in such key areas as: (a) performance assessment of teachers, principals and schools,
(b) in-service training and orientation of teachers and principals in school management concepts and
effective school operations and, (c) efficient use of school resources, teachers, funding, and physical
plant. The project would also provide for the establishment of a new District Education Office (DEO) in
Castle Bruce to provide office space for use by the EO and for visiting MOE and TTC staff, a library for
teachers and education staff, and a lecture room for seminars, workshops and meetings to serve teachers
and principals. To support these objectives, the project would provide:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons to pursue advanced one-year training
programs in school supervision, with particular attention to training in methods of
promoting school effectiveness, coupled with brief attachments to relevant external
agencies;
22



(b)    Civil works for office space at the head office and construction of the DEO Office in
Castle Bruce;
(c)    Related furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers and software, for the
headquarters school supervisory service and for the new DEO Office, and
(d)   local on-the-job training courses for supervisors and principals to keep them abreast of
system developments and reforms in planning, curriculum, testing, educational materials
and teacher training, thereby helping to build the requisite support system for the reform
process.
5.14   Educational Testing and Measurement. To expand and strengthen the current testing program of
MOE, an Educational Testing and Examinations (ETX) Unit would be established. The Unit would:
(a) be responsible, as at present, for the administration of the Common Entrance examination (CEE)
and the JSP examination, and administration of external examinations, such as the CXC and the GCE;
(b) improve the CEE and expand the testing program to include, at least, one national test within the
primary cycle (about two years before the CEE) and one within the secondary cycle (at Form three
level) to better measure student and school performance; (c) develop national norms and desired
achievement standards; and (d) conduct research on student achievement and learning.
5.15   To directly support the new ETX Unit, the project would provide:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons to pursue one-year advanced training
programs in Educational Testing and Measurement. A suitable short-term attachment
subsequent to training (possibly at the Caribbean Examinations Council--CXC) would be
arranged for the fellowship holders.
(b)    Expert services (4 months) to assist in establishing the ETX Unit and in the design of the
testing program;
(c)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies for data analysis, word processing, scoring
(including optical scanning), desktop publishing, and a van to be shared with the
Educational Materials Unit;
(d)    Funding for studies, including pilot testing of new tests, establishment of norms and
standards of achievement and for school evaluation (including school-based continuous
assessment), development of curriculum evaluation methodologies, and studies of
learning                   differentials among students, and
(e)   local on-the-job training, including item writing workshops as well as
orientation seminars for principals and teachers in the interpretation and constructive use
of test scores.
5.16   The civil works to accommodate the ETX unit will include the construction of a walk-in vault to
enhance the security of tests and examination. The ETX would absorb the existing office of the
Registrar of Examinations which would be strengthened by the addition of an Assistant Registrar.
5.17   Educational Materials Development.  The project would also strengthen the capacity of MOE
to prepare, produce and procure educational materials. With expert assistance, MOE would review cost-
23



effective options regarding preparation, publication, manufacturing and distribution of supporting
materials and eventually textbooks, with a view to maximizing local (including private sector)
participation in these processes, as appropriate. MOE would also adopt improved methods of textbook
selection, standardizing and streamlining the number of textbooks per subject, to the extent feasible, as
well as exploring additional measures to ease the financial burden of textbook purchase on parents. To
expand access to text books by students of the most disadvantaged schools, and to provide teachers at
primary and secondary level with text book supplies, the project would finance:
(a)    The supply of a set of books in the core subjects from a list, to be agreed with the Bank
and the Association, of not more than ten of the most disadvantaged primary schools (as
measured by CEE performance) including the four Carib territory schools; and for
selected small schools, where multigrade teaching would be necessary in the light of the
proposed changes in teacher to student ratios;
(b)    The provision of basic text books for teachers of the grades 1-9, in each primary and
secondary school, and
(c)    The supply of supplementary educational materials for selected secondary schools,
especially to support the teaching of scientific subjects on the basis of a list of schools
and equipment to be agreed with the Bank.
5. i 8 The project would specifically provide:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons holding degrees to pursue one year program
of advanced training, one in general editing and publishing and the other in art editing
and publishing, including in each case, subsequent attachment to an appropriate
publishing house;
(b)    Expert services (4 months) for two specialists as follows: (i) 2 months of assistance to
help the MOE to reshape, as appropriate, its policy and role in regard to preparing,
publishing and distributing educational materials and to evaluate and adopt, as
appropriate, alternative methods of procuring materials, and (ii) 2 months of assistance
to advise on educational materials production and desktop publishing. Both experts
would train local staff in publishing and production tasks;
(c)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies to support expanded and improved manuscript
development, word processing and desk top publishing, etc., and equipment
maintenance;
(d)    Local training workshops for writers and illustrators; and
(e)    Studies on the impact of books and materials on student performance and evaluation of
procurement methods for books.
5.19   Curriculum Development.    To provide the requisite technical expertise to
continually review curricula and syllabi, with particular attention to the core subjects--mathematics,
24



language arts, social studies and science and to streamline the curricula, the project would strengthen the
Curriculum Development Unit (CDU), by financing:
(a)    Fellowships (4 staff years) for four persons to pursue one-year advanced level training
programs in the design, research and evaluation of curricula, one recipient in each of the
four core subject areas;
(b)    Supplementary furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers, software, data
storage equipment, printers for CDU and equipment maintenance;
(c)    Local training, via workshops for teachers, principals and supervisors to be conducted
by the returned fellows;
(d)    Studies for the evaluation of the syllabi and curricula and the articulation of them
between grades and cycles, and
(e)    (i) a science kit, (ii) a mathematics kit, and (iii) a social studies kit for each of 50
primary schools, and related storage units for this equipment, to support improved
teaching of syllabi at the school level;
5.20   Teacher Training.    This sub-component seeks to improve teacher training at the basic and
in-service levels and, thus, contribute to improved teaching through financing three principal types of
investments:
(a)    Fellowships (3 staff years) to train 3 persons in the training of teachers to strengthen the
staff of the Teacher Training College (TTC) one in the field of Science, another in Social
Studies and a third in Education
(b)    Equipment and supplies at the TTC, for science and language labs, audio-visual aids, and
library materials; and
(c)    In-service training programs during the summer vacations for primary school teachers
oriented toward content and teaching methods/pedagogy. The summer in-service
training program would provide a systematic upgrading system for teachers at the basic
level, to raise them to an acceptable level the competence in the four core subject areas.
The scope of this program will be agreed upon in advance with the Bank on a year-to-
year basis, as part of the annual project programming exercise. Overall, it is projected
that the training program would serve about 300 teachers.
5.21   As part of the Government's effort to professionalize the teaching service, the TTC would
require all new entrants into the two year diploma training program after 1998 to have at least four GCE
"O" level or CXC equivalent passes, including English, Mathematics, a Social Studies subject and a
Science subject. Moreover, by the year 2000, all teachers in the primary schools who have not secured at
least four CXC or GCE "O" level passes or the equivalent in each of the four core subject areas would be
reassigned either to other suitable public service jobs or, if they have demonstrated special ability to
work with young children, to the Pre-School system.
5.22   School Library Service. The project aims at intensifying the SLS bookmobile visits to the
Primary Schools, by providing an additional bookmobile to complement the activities of the bookmobile
25



that the now operates from Roseau. A Schools Library Center in Portsmouth would provide the base for
the new bookmobile service to the schools in the North and this Center would serve the schools in
Portsmouth as well. To this end, the project would finance:
(a)    Fellowships (5 staff years) to train (a) one person to pursue a 3 year degree in
librarianship, and (b) two persons each to attend a one year course to be trained as
library technicians, and a study tour (4 staff weeks) for the Chief Librarian to visit school
library services in other countries;
(b)    Construction of a Schools Library Center (including a garage for the bookmobile in
Portsmouth;
(c)    Related equipment, furniture and supplies for the Portsmouth center, and a new
bookmobile with 4000 book capacity, spare parts, and maintenance;
(d)    Studies on the impact of reading on student performance, and
(e)    Local workshops for teacher librarians on the use of the library in teaching.
Expansion of Access to Schools Component (US$3.9 million equivalent of base costs, or 49 percent of
total base costs)
5.23   The school mapping exercise, conducted during project preparation, highlighted the importance
of redressing serious shortfalls in secondary school places, while achieving a more equitable geographic
distribution of such places and improving primary to secondary transition rates. The project would
expand access to secondary education. This additional space, coupled with more efficient use of existing
space is expected to permit primary to secondary transition rates to rise to around 63 percent by the Year
2000. The project would also assist MOE to rehabilitate selected existing primary and secondary
schools in urgent need of such attention.
5.24   To these ends, the project would finance:
(a)    civil works, furniture and equipment, and equipment maintenance for (i) a new 525
place secondary school to increase coverage in a presently un-served area, Castle Bruce,
and (ii) classroom space (including 13 classrooms, 7 of which would replace existing
unsuitable rooms), a science laboratory and a toilet block at the existing secondary
school in Portsmouth;
(b)    rehabilitation of selected schools with urgent needs, identified as priority items in the
1994/95 school facilities study, and
(c)    preparation of a Master Plan for the development of the campus of the Portsmouth
secondary school by the architectural consultants.
5.25   The schedule of accommodation of the works to be undertaken under (a) above is provided in
Annex 5.. To complement project-financed activities, the Government, via the MOE, would undertake
the systematic training of principals and vice-principals in managing preventive maintenance and
mobilization of community support for maintenance. The program of rehabilitation of selected schools
26



would be agteed annually by the Bank and the Association prior to the commencement of its
implementation. The Government would ensure either (a) public access to any public school constructed
on church lands or (b) public ownership or lease of the lands for the construction of such schools.
27



6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
6.1    The total project cost is estimated at US$7.9 million equivalent, including duties and taxes
(US$0.5million equivalent) and physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component
represents US$6.1 million equivalent, or 77 percent of total project cost. A summary of project costs by
major component is provided in Table 6.1. As a percentage of base costs, financing for the three major
components is as follows: Strengthening Management and Planning (15), Qualitative Improvement (36),
and Expansion and Conservation of School Places (49). Detailed cost tables are provided in Annex 6,
Table IA-ID.
6.2    The cost estimates are based on prices as of June 1995. To the base cost of the civil works, 12
percent has been added to cover the costs of professional, consultant services, to meet the needs for
architectural design and tender preparation, and contract administration.
6.3    Contingency Allowances. Total contingencies of US$1 million equivalent represent 15 percent
of baseline project cost. These include physical contingencies of US$0.65 million equivalent, averaging
10 percent across the discrete components. Price contingencies (US$0.4 million equivalent), represent 6
percent of project baseline cost, and are based on the following assumptions: (a) a local inflation rate of
2.2 percent in 1995, and 2.0 percent per year thereafter; and (b) price increases for foreign costs,
estimated in US dollars, of 3.3 percent in 1995, and 2.7 percent for the remaining four years of project
implementation. Cost calculations also assume a nominal, constant exchange rate of EC$2.7 to US$ 1.00
for the five-year project implementation period.
Table 6.1: Total Project Costs
(US$ '000)      Foreign    Base
Local Foreig Total Exchange Costs
A. Strengthening Management
and Planning                              215    761 1,044         79      15
B. Qualitative Improvement                  435  2,070 2,505          83      36
C. Expansion and Conservation of
School Places                             903  2 445 3.348         73      49
Total BASELINE COSTS                       1,522  5,345 6,897         77    100
Physical Contingencies                     173    479   652         73       9
Price Contingencies                         96    295   391         75       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,822  6,119 7,940         77    115
28



B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
6.4  Incremental Recurrent Costs. The recurrent cost (not including incremental debt service)
generated by this project is estimated to be US$1.2 million per year by the end of the decade in current
prices. Estimates of these incremental recurrent costs are presented in Annex 6, Appendix. These
additional costs are attributable mainly to: (a) new positions in the MOE Establishment including the
library service and related travel and office and general expenses; (b) increased allowances for materials
and supplies and for operations and maintenance in primary and secondary schools and for the expanded
School Library Service (SLS); (c) additional costs of maintaining the equipment and furniture supplied
under the project, (d) the costs related to additional 735 secondary school places provided by the project;
and (e) cost of maintenance of the new buildings, including new school places, the DEO office in Castle
Bruce, MOE building and Library building in Portsmouth.
6.5    These incremental costs will be offset by about US$1.4 million equivalent in savings projected to
be generated by 2000 from the downward adjustments in the teacher to student ratios planned for the
1996-2001 period (Annex, the Appendix). In other words, the project will achieve a net decline in
recurrent expenditure on the sector.
6.6    Proiect Sustainability. The new Government has confirmed its support of the project, with
planned qualitative improvements and expansion of access to education widely viewed as essential to
achieve desired economic growth and social development objectives. Requisite Government financing
for the project, including its contribution of US$1.3 million equivalent (net of taxes) and incremental
debt service associated therewith, can be met, as they represent less than I percent of the 1994 GDP.
Further, there are no net annual incremental recurrent costs to be generated by the end of project
implementation, (Table 6.2).
Table 6.2. Average Annual Fiscal Implication of the Proposed Basic Education Project
(In Percent of GDP)
1996-2000   2001-2010
Estimated Incremental Recurrent Cost      .00         .00
Incremental Debt Service                 .02          .11
Total Incremental Cost                   .02          .11
Memorandum item:
Public Sector Current Surplus             3.2         3.0
6.7    Dominica is eligible for borrowing from IBRD under Single Currency Loan (SCL) terns
because: (i) it has no unconverted VLR82 loans, and (ii) the proposed loan does not exceeds US$100
million, although it represents 100 percent of IBRD lending program for FY 1996. Presented with the
choice of loan product, the Government decided on the fixed exchange rate US dollar SCL option. This
choice was based on the effort of eliminating exchange rate volatility (the EC dollar is pegged to the US
dollar) and minimizing interest rate uncertainty for a social sector project such as the proposed one.
29



6.8    The technical assistance program included in this project, detailed in Annex 7, Table 2, has been
designed to maximize development of local expertise and capacity in order to sustain project benefits
well into the future. The mix of expert services and fellowships, structured to complement one another,
emphasizes staff development. Orientation seminars and study tours have been included to familiarize
senior staff with key aspects of educational reform. Eligibility criteria for all project-supported training
will be specified in a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) (Para. 7.2). Fellows will be selected with
attention to their capacity to benefit from the respective training program and the program will be
tailored to their job needs in Dominica and be complemented in several cases by short attachments to
relevant agencies or entities abroad. These fellows will be drawn largely from the public service
(teaching and the civil service). Their job experience will sharpen awareness of their own training needs.
In keeping with normal Government policy, all fellows will be bonded to serve for an appropriate
duration of time following their training. Upon completion of training and return to Dominica, all
fellows will be expected to produce reports on their training experience and to conduct seminars to
disseminate their newly acquired knowledge to others. Most of the expert services will be provided in a
series of short term consultancies, with these services timed in order that: (a) while local staff remain in
direct control of operations, they will receive external assistance at certain critical junctures; and (b) the
tenure of fellowships and expert service periods are optimally synchronized. Finally, all experts will be
required to train staff and to prepare manuals to help guide staff in how specific key tasks should be
organized and programmed.
C. Financing Plan
6.9    The proposed project would be financed by an IBRD Loan and an IDA Credit totaling US$6.1
million equivalent, representing 77 percent of the total project cost. The combined Loan and Credit
would cover 100 percent of total foreign exchange investment expenditures and 50 percent of local
investment expenditures for goods. The Government would finance US$1.8 million equivalent or 100
percent of all local investment costs (net of taxes), except for goods financed at 50 percent of their local
investment costs, and 100 percent of local and foreign recurrent costs, and US$0.5 million equivalent in
taxes.
6.10   Table 6.3 provides a summary of the project financing plan. Annex 6, Table 2A includes the
detailed financing plan by component. The phasing of the Government financing and the Government's
inclusion of the required amounts in "Dominica Annual Estimates of Expenditure" for the years 1996
through 2000 are both to be addressed in the ESL (Para. 5.4). The Government would provide the
official Annual "Estimates" for the years 1996 through 2000, the necessary minimum equivalent
amounts of project financing required for project implementation11, estimated to be: US$2.7 million in
1996; US$2.7 million in 1997; US$0.8 million in 1998; US$1.4 million in 1999; and US$0.3million in
2000.
The amounts per fiscal year are the following: US$1.4 million for FY1995/96; US$2.7 million for
FY 1996/97; US$1.7 million for FY 1997/98; US$1.1 million for FY 1998/99; US$0.8 million for FY 1999/00;
US$0.2 million for FY 2000/01
30



Table 6.3: Financing Plan (US$ millions)
IlDA/TRRD  The G.overnmen       Total
Amount  %   Am oun    %    Amoun   %
A. Strengthening Management
and Planning                           0.9   80      0.2      20     1.1   15
B. Qualitative Improvement                2.3   83      0.5     17      2.8   35
C. Expansion and Conservation
of School Places                       3.0   73      1.1      27     4.0   50
Total Disbursement                        6.1   77      1.8      23     7.9  100
6.11   Retroactive financing up to SDR 410,000 (US$ 614,000 equivalent), or 10 percent of combined
IBRD and IDA project financing, would be provided to reimburse the Government for eligible
expenditures incurred after October 1995, to enable the Government to immediately commence requisite
steps to expedite the reform process, including: (a) equipping of the newly established PMU, training of
its staff in such general areas as procurement, and Bank-specific procedures , and provision of study
tours for them to visit other project units in the Caribbean and of expert services to assist in
operationalizing the Unit and formulating the PIM; (b) architectural design works and tenders
preparation for the civil works; and (c) preparation of lists and specifications for the equipment and
furniture to be procured under the project. This retroactive financing is required to permit these
important outlays to be eligible for consideration for immediate reimbursement upon Loan and Credit
Effectiveness.
31



7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management and Coordination
7.1    The project would be executed by the MOE through the creation of the PMU with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, with at least three full-time professional
personnel-a Project Manager, Procurement Officer, and an Accountant-with qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank and the Association, assisted by sufficient numbers of support staff.
7.2   In implementing the project, the PMU and other entities involved in project execution would be
guided by the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM, the final content of which will be agreed
with the Bank and the Association, will include the following main items: (a) organizational
arrangements, including specific relationships and responsibilities for project execution; (b) the content
of all the components and sub-components of the project; (c) operational procedures (both Government
and Bank as appropriate) for the procurement of goods, works and services to be followed in project
implementation, including criteria for: rehabilitation of schools; eligibility for, and processing
requirements relating to, project-supported training (fellowships, in-service and study tours) and
reference to the Bank' Guidelines for the use of consultants; and selection of planning and policy-related
studies (d) a timetable delineating targeted completion dates for the project components, including the
planning and policy-related studies; (e) disbursement and procurement arrangements, including reference
to the standard bidding documents to be used for works and goods, and standard consultant contracts;
(f) financial management and control arrangements, including Terms of Reference (TORs) and schedule
for internal and external project audits and project monitoring and evaluation; (g) agreed project
monitoring and evaluation indicators, to guide assessment of project implementation performance during
the Annual and mid-term Project Reviews; (h) TORs for the staff of the PMU and all the experts to be
employed under the project and (i) such other matters as may be agreed between the Government and the
Bank and the Association. As a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government will be
expected to have ensured that the agreed PIM had been issued, in terms satisfactory to the Bank and the
Association, and provided appropriate assurances that the Manual is in full force and effect.
B. Institutional Arrangements
7.3    As a source of advice and counseling during project implementation, a Project Advisory
Committee (PAC) will be established with representation from the Ministries with responsibility for the
portfolios of Education, Finance, Personnel and Public Works. The Project Manager would serve as
Secretary. The PAC will meet periodically to review implementation performance and will be convened,
as needed, to address any urgent matters which might arise over the course of project execution. To
ensure achievement of project objectives, the MOE will need to collaborate closely with several other
government entities, including the Ministry of Finance, a representative of which will countersign all
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan and Credit.
32



C. Implementation Program
7.4           The project would be implemented over the five-year period 1996-2000, with some
front loading because of the urgency of having the fellowships begin as soon as possible and the fact that
the prepearatory architectural work would begin early under Japanese Grant financing. An
Implementation Schedule, by component and sub-component, is presented in Annex 7, Table 1. The
project Completion Date would be December 31, 2000, and the Closing Dates for the Loan and Credit
would be June 30, 2001. Civil works execution, overseas fellowships, and provision of expert services
are heavily concentrated over the first and second year of project implementation (or over the second
and third fiscal years) in order to ensure that these key inputs are rapidly completed . At the same time,
the requirement for capital outlays on the part of the Government as well as the project impact on the
recurrent budget have been kept at reasonable levels taking into account the severity of the fiscal
constraints in Dominica over the next 1-3 years.
7.5    Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later dates as may be agreed for this
purpose, government will (i) prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank a plan of such scope
and detail as IDA and IBRD may reasonably request for the future operations of the Project, (ii)
exchange view with IBRD and IDA on such plan, and (iii) carry out such plan, taking into account IBRD
and IDA comments on it.
D. Procurement
7.6    Part XIII of the Government's Financial (Stores) Regulations prescribes guidelines for "The
purchase of Stores, etc., and the tenders procedure for Supplies". In practice, these regulations are
applied by the whole public sector to the procurement of goods and works at large. Goods and supplies
whose contract value exceeds EC$ 1,000 are to be procured through a public tendering procedure with at
least three bidders, and contracts are awarded by a Public Tendering Board (PTB). In the case of
contracts for the provision of works, the bidders must pre-qualify and the MOW is usually charged with
the responsibility for the technical evaluation of bids, although, for large projects, or whenever it is
required by external financiers, a private independent consulting firm is contracted to this end. These
regulations and procedures appear to grant a sufficient degree of transparency to the procurement
process. However, they are in need of updating and revision, especially in light of the limited exposure
of the public sector in Dominica to the requirements of large projects and international procurement and
financing.
7.7    While civil works for education sector projects in many countries have usually been procured
with only minor problem, the procurement of instructional materials and equipment has proven difficult.
Some of the more common and costly problems that occur during procurement of instructional
equipment in various countries are: (a) limited technical knowledge of optimum types and sources of
educational equipment, materials, supplies, and hence difficulties in writing precise and appropriate
technical specifications; (b) inexperience in packaging contracts to obtain potential economies of scale of
purchase; (c) difficulties in appropriately timing the placement of orders in order to synchronize delivery
dates with the actual time that the given goods will be required, particularly to coincide with the state of
readiness of civil works; (d) limitations in the capacity to conduct of technical evaluation of bids;
(e) insufficient attention to inspection of goods and bills of lading upon arrival of procured items; and
(g) the virtual neglect of enforcement of insurance and warranty clauses.
33



7.8    Several steps have been taken to avoid such problems in this project. First, prior to
commencement of project implementation, the full-time Procurement Officer will receive intensive,
practical training, and attend relevant Bank-seminars. Two officers of MOE attended the three day
project launch workshop held in June 1995 in St. Lucia for a series of projects including the St. Lucia
Basic Education Reform Project. Second, specialized expert services will be provided at critical points
in the procurement process, particularly in the first stages of project's implementation, to assist (as well
as to further train) the Procurement Officer in areas such as bidding technical specifications, processing
and evaluation. Third, to guide and expedite the procurement process, specification lists for goods to be
procured with project financing, and bidding documents for civil works and goods based on standard
Bank documents, will be prepared according to the Implementation Program. To further advance
preparation of civil works, architectural designs will be completed with Japanese Grant and retroactive
financing (Para. 6. 10), in order to permit initiation of the actual bidding process immediately upon
declaration of Loan and Credit Effectiveness. The Government would employ a firm of architectural
consultants, to provide architectural services and to coordinate other professional services required for
civil works, both experienced with the region and with Bank financed projects.
7.9    The designation of a full-time Procurement Officer to the PMU responds directly to the
experience gained in the OECS Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project (Credit 1785-
CRG), in particular the need for constant, careful attention to detailed selection and specifications of
goods (i.e., furniture and educational and related equipment and materials) to be purchased, and to
contracting procedures, ensuring: (a) upstream, compliance with Bank guidelines for selection of
consultants and consulting firms, and for procurement of civil works and goods; and (b) downstream,
that acquired goods meet the specifications and that equipment is appropriately and safely installed and
utilized.
7.10   Procurement procedures to be followed for all major categories of expenditures to be financed by
IBRD and IDA are described below and summarized in Table 7.
(1) Civil Works
7.11   Civil works to be procured with project financing (expected to total US$4.2 million equivalent,
including contingencies) consist of the following: (i) one new secondary school, of 525 places in Castle
Bruce, and the upgrading and expansion of the Portsmouth Secondary School (representing a net
addition of 210 places); ii) rehabilitation of selected primary and secondary schools; (iii) one new
District Office in Castle Bruce; (iv) new School Library Center in Portsmouth; and (v) office space for
new MOE management and technical units.
7.12   In view of the small value of all such works, the Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) to be
used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be "Procurement of Works Smaller Contracts"
and these same documents, modified as necessary, would be used for National Competitive Bidding
(NCB). Civil works, including those for the rehabilitation of selected schools, would be grouped in
packages as far as it is practicable. All civil works contracts valued at US$0.5 million and above would
be awarded on the basis ICB, consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines'2. Civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$0.5 million per contract, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.0 million, may be procured on the basis of NCB. Civil works
12 Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The World Bank, January 1995.
34



(including works for rehabilitation of selected schools), estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 per contract, may, consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines and up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$0.8 million, be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation and made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation and has the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully. All school rehabilitation works would require full documentation to include:
certification by the MOE that the works were of a priority nature, consistent with the school facilities
inventory; an approved budget for the subject work; review by the consultants for civil works of designs
and/or bidding documents prior to initiating any such works, and certification by the consultants for civil
works that the work was efficiently, fully and satisfactorily completed; and appropriate documentation of
local shopping procedures applied in the selection of contractors, all of which documentation would be
retained for review by IBRD and IDA supervision missions. No individual school would normally be
expected to receive rehabilitation works in excess of an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000 equivalent.
(2) Goods
7.13   School and Office Equipment (estimated to cost US$363,000 equivalent including
contingencies) Furniture (US$297,000),YVeiclei.(US$ 185,000), Textbooks and other educational
mateziWsi(US$404,000) and Office Supplies (US$276,000)would be grouped in packages as far as
practicable and procured in the following manner consistent with Bank guidelines:
(a)    Contract packages estimated to cost the equivalent or more than US$50,000 or more
would be procured on the basis of ICB;
(b)    Contract packages estimated to cost US$15,000 equivalent or more but less than
US$50,000 equivalent and US$900,000 equivalent in the aggregate, would be procured through
international shopping procedures, and
(c)    Contract packages estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equivalent and US$300,000
equivalent in the aggregate, would be procured through national shopping procedures.
7.14   Computer hardware and software (expected to total US$244,000 equivalent, including
contingencies)would be grouped, to the extent possible, in packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more and procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures.
Exceptionally, and with previous Bank no objection, packages of small value may be procured through
shopping procedures.
7.15   Bidding lists of eligible bidders for computers and software and for vehicles would include only
manufacturers who have established maintenance and service facilities in Dominica or in neighboring
countries.
35



Table 7.3 Procurement Arrangements
Dom inica
Basic Education Project
Procurement Arrangements - Non ICB/LCB  Aggregated as Other
(US S M illion)
Procu rem ent Method
International    Natrional
Com petitive   Com petitive
Bidding          Bidding        Other   N.B.F.   Total
Civil Works
Construction /a                                             2.4             1.0        0.8          -        4.2
(I .7)          (0.7)      (0.5)                 (2.9)
Goods
Cornputera and Software /b
Computers and Softw.                                                        -       0.2           -       0.2
(0.2)                (0.2)
Other Goods /c
(other equipment, furniture, text-books                     0.3               -        1.2          -        1.5
educ. materials, vehicles, supplies)                      (0.3)                      (1.1)                 (1 4)
Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                                                          -       0.4          -        0.4
(0.4)                (0.4)
Experts id                                                                             0.4                   0.4
(0.3)                (0.3)
Fellowships /e                                                                         0.7           -       0.7
(0.6)                (0.6)
Studies /f                                                                    -        0.1          -        0.1
(0.1)                (0.1)
Training /g                                                                    -       0.2          -        0.2
(0.1)                (0.1)
M sintenance
Equipm ent                                                                    -          -        0.1        0.1
To iai                                                         2.7              1.0       4.1        0.1        7.9
(2.0)           (0.7)      (3.4)          -      (6.1)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective am ounts finatced by IBRD/IDA
Explanation for the methods used under categorv "O ther"
\a Contracts valued at less than USS100,000: Lum psum  or Fixed Price Procedures consistent with Bank Guidelines, up to
an aggregate amount of U SS0.5 million
\b LID (contracts at or above U SS50,000) from manufacturers with established service sand maintenance in the Caribbean area
\c International Shopping (contracts valued U S 15,000 or m ore but less than U SS50,000 and U SSO.9m illion in the aggresate).
and National Shopping for contracts valued less than U SS 15,000 and U SS 300,000 in the aggregate
\d According to Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
\e List of candidates subject to Bank's approval
\f According to Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
Ng According to Banks Guidelines for the U se of Consultants
(3) Technical Assistance
7.16    Professional service contracts (expected to total US$442,000 equivalent including
contingencies) for architectural design, tendering, and supervision/administration of contracts relating to
36



the execution of IBRD and IDA-financed civil works would be procured according to Bank guidelines
for the use of consultants.13
7.17   Ept Services (expected to total US$428,000 equivalent, including contingencies), to include
contracts for consultants and consulting firms, would be awarded in accordance with the World Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants. Details of project-financed Expert Services are provided in Annex
7, Table 2.
7.18   Fellowships (expected to total US$675,000 including contingencies) would be awarded only to
persons suitably qualified to enter upon the agreed training programs, following Government selection
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Details of Fellowships are provided in Annex 7, Table 2.
7.19   Local Training (expected to total US$157,000 including contingencies) would be jointly
arranged by the specialized service of MOE concerned and the PMU. Trainers would be selected in
consultation between the concerned MOE unit and the PMU.
7.20   Studies (expected to total US$143,000 equivalent, including contingencies). With reference to
studies, the PMU and the concerned department would consult on the selection of consulting services
and the PMU would procure these in keeping with IBRD and IDA guidelines. For any necessary
materials in view of the small amounts involved, local shopping would be used.
(4) IBRD and II)A Review
7.21   Agreement was reached that the Government would: (a) prior to initiating any civil works or
acquisition of goods to be procured through ICB or LIB, and for those civil works to be procured via
NCB, submit to the Bank and Association for prior review all relevant documentation; (b) with regard to
consultants and consulting firms, submit all proposed contracts and related terms of reference, short lists
of candidates, proposed fees, etc. for prior IBRD and IDA review to ensure consistency with Bank
guidelines on use of consultants; and (c) to ensure consistency with project objectives, submit the names
and resumes of all shortlisted candidates for fellowships, the proposed training program and training
institution, and estimated cost for prior IBRD and IDA review. The budget for local training and for
studies would be agreed with the Bank and IDA in advance of initiating such activities and all relevant
documentation conceming expenditures on agreed studies and training would be retained for review by
IBRD and IDA supervision missions. For all procurement of goods and works not requiring prior
review from the Bank and the Association, all relevant documentation would be retained in PMU files by
IBRD and IDA supervision missions. Prior review coverage as a percentage of Bank-financed contracts
is estimated to amount to about 60 percent of goods and works contracts and 100 percent of consultants
contracts.
E. Disbursements and Accounts
7.22   The proposed Loan of US$3.07 million equivalent and Credit of SDR2.1 million (US$3.07
million equivalent), would be disbursed over a five-year period or ten semesters, typical of other IBRD
and IDA-supported social sector projects. Table 7.4 presents the disbursement forecast for the Loan and
3 Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency. The
World Bank, August 1981.
37



Credit. Disbursements would commence immediately at Loan and Credit Effectiveness with the
disbursement for retroactive financing and the initial disbursement into the project Special Account. To
facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD and IDA, a Special Account in US dollars at a bank acceptable
to IBRD and IDA. The Authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$0.5 million
equivalent, with an initial deposit to be made of US$0.25 million equivalent, and such allocation to
remain limited to an amount equivalent to US$0.25 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$ 1.0 million . The Special Account
would be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU), with all disbursements made under
authorized signatures from designated representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the PMU, and
withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be prepared by the PMU in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures.
7.23   The Government would open a Project Account in a bank acceptable to IBRD and IDA and
deposit into such account an amount equivalent to not less than US$250,000, for purposes of financing
the implementation of the project and would maintain a positive balance in such account over the project
implementation period, in the amounts stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement.
Table 7.4: Disbursement Plan
Semest.  Project     IBRD/IDA    The Government
_Csts     AmountU         AmountUSS
1     1,368,652     1,107,128         261,524
2     1,368,652     1,107,128         261,524
3     1,339,803     1,044,319         295,484
43   1,339,803     1,044,319         295,484
5      404,838       303,716          101,123
6      404,838       303,716          101,123
7      688,209       499,252          188,956
8      688,209       499,252          188,956
9      168,562       115,831           52,730
10      168,562       115,831           52,730
Total    1,940,126     6,140,491     1,799,635 ; '3
(*) US$ 1.3 net of taxes
7.24   Annex 7, Table 4 contains the projected Loan and Credit disbursement allocations.
Disbursements would be effected against the following expenditure categories, by percentage of IBRD
and IDA financing: (a) civil works, for construction of the new secondary school at Castle Bruce and the
expansion of the Portsmouth Secondary School, the new District Education Office at Castle Bruce, and
Schools Library Center in Portsmouth, and office space for the MOE management and technical units
and for professional fees related thereto for design, tender preparation and contract administration--  00
percent of foreign expenditure net of taxes(or 72 percent of total expenditure) (b) civil works for
rehabilitation of selected primary schools and professional fees related thereto-- 100 percent of foreign
expenditure net of taxes (or 72 percent of total expenditure); (c) goods including all equipment,
furniture, educational materials, computers and software, and supplies and miscellaneous-- 1 00 percent of
38



foreign expenditure and 50% of local expenditure net of taxes (or 95 percent of total expenditure);
(d) technical assistance, including (i) expert services, (ii) fellowships, (iii) training and (iv) studies--100
percent of foreign expenditure net of taxes (or 75, 95, 50 and 50 percent respectively of total
expenditure).
7.25   Withdrawal applications for civil works with a contract value of US$100,000 or more equivalent
and for goods with a contract value of US$50,000 or more equivalent, would be supported by full
documentation. Disbursements for all contracts for civil works of less than US$100,000 equivalent,
including works associated with the rehabilitation of primary schools, and for contracts for goods of less
than US$50,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) certified by
the PMU. Supporting documentation for these latter expenditures, as delineated in paragraph 7.23,
would be retained by the PMI, and be readily available for periodic review by IBRD and IDA
supervision missions.
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
7.26   An evaluation of existing financial management procedures and the accounting systems and
administrative controls of MOE was carried out by the Bank. It was noted that the cotntry's financial
management system is highly centralized, with the Government Treasury responsible for general
financial control of the entire executive branch. At the level of the MOE. financial activities are limited
to providing information in accounting format to the MOF, for payment and final accounting purposes.
The existing financial management procedures in MOE would require strengthening over the medium-
term in order to support the modernization of the administration of the MOE. Improvements are needed
in accounting, budgeting, and financial planning and analysis. To these ends, the project supports (a)
training in financial analysis, operations research and economics of education for a person who will be
assigned to the EPU to conduct efficiency studies related to the cost and financing of education, and (b)
the establishment of an integrated, computerized education data system that would include financial
records. The PIM will provide detailed TORs for internal and external audits of project accounts
satisfactory to the IBRD and IDA. MOE would also strengthen its financial management operations by
adding an executive officer (Accounts) to its staff.
7.27   The technical review conducted during the preparatory phase further concluded that the
Government Audit Department has the required independence to meet Bank audit requirements, as it
reports directly to Parliament. With regard to its technical capacity, senior staff have been exposed to
several audits of externally financed projects.
7.28   The MOE would keep separate accounts for project incurred expenditures according to the
proposed Charts of Accounts (as detailed in Schedule I of the Loan and Credit Agreements) and prepare
a monthly statement of expenditures. This procedure will facilitate the preparation of withdrawal
applications and expedite the disbursement process. Annual audits of all project accounts, including the
Special Account, will be undertaken by an independent auditor. Initially, it is proposed that this
independent auditor be the Government Audit Department. The requisite audit reports would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank and Association not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year'4 (i.e., not later than October 30) under TORs satisfactory to IBRD and IDA. Should the
14 Fiscal year runs from July I to June 30.
39



Government Audit Department prove unable to carry out such audits in a timely fashion, the Bank and
the Association would require the use of a private sector firm.
G. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(1) Project Performance Reporting
7.29   Overall responsibility for monitoring, evaluation and reporting of project performance would be
assigned to the PMU. The PMU also would be responsible for the preparation of the Borrower's section
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that would be transmitted to the IBRD and IDA not
later than six months after the Closing Date. To ensure and expedite fulfillment of periodic reporting
requirements relating to project implementation status, and to facilitate the conduct of regular project
supervision missions, the PIM will schedule consolidated project progress reports to be prepared by the
PMU by September 30 and March 31 each year, and these would be distributed to IBRD and IDA, and to
CDB for information. The March 31 report would serve as the basis for an annual in depth review of
project performance to be carried out by the Government, IBRD and IDA.
7.30   The annual March 31 project status report will include: (i) a summary of the project performance
over the past year, measured against agreed project monitoring and evaluation indicators, delineated in
Annex 7, Table 5; and (ii) a detailed work program and budget (including planned contracting of expert
services and initiation of planning and policy-related studies) for the forthcoming year of project
implementation, and a realistic implementation schedule and targets for moving the project toward its
successful completion.
(2) Project Reviews
7.31   Annual reviews of project performance would take place no later than May 31 each year of the
1997-2000 period between the IBRD and IDA and Government. A joint mid-term Review of the
performance of the Basic Education Reform Project and the education reform process which it supports
would be undertaken not later than June 30, 1998. For such review, the PMU would prepare, and jointly
IBRD, IDA and the Government would review a summary report including assessment of: (a) the
overall implementation performance of the project during its first two-and-one-half years in terms of its
progress toward achieving the agreed project objectives, targets and indicators; (b) the adequacy of
available and planned project financing; (c) compliance with IBRD and IDA procurement and
disbursement requirements, and (d) the outcome of the annual audit reports. Subsequent to this review, a
plan of action to guide the successful completion of the project will be prepared. A Project Supervision
Plan is provided in Annex 7, Table 6. As part of such Annual Review, the MOE may be asked to prepare
an action plan, satisfactory to IBRD and IDA, to make adjustments in project implementation, as the
review process may indicate to be needed to achieve project objectives. In such case, the Government
should furnish this action plan to IBRD/IDA no later than one month after conclusion of the respective
review, and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in accordance with its terms. The Government
would indicate in the PIM its intention to comply fully and in a timely manner with the Project reporting
and review requirements, all of which would be incorporated in the PIM.
40



H. Project Supervision
7.32   During supervision missions, which will be timed so as to follow closely upon the half yearly
reports, the Bank and Association will:
(a)    review the achievements in project implementation against the Monitoring and
Evaluation indicators as set out in Annex 7 Table 5 and covered in the half yearly report;
(b)    assist in resolving problems that have emerged since the previous supervision mission;
(c)    discuss any changes in policy or the functioning of the sector that have a bearing on the
project and project implementation and;
(d)    review selected documents retained in project files pertaining to procurement of goods
and works.
In particular, as the following activities are ongoing, the supervision missions will pay special attention
to:
(i)   the adjustment of teacher to student ratios, the changes in the ratio of salary to
non salary expenditures, and the application of resources to school maintenance
and supplies;
(ii)   the preparation and processing of the long range sector plan;
(iii)   the strengthening of management and planning in MOE, including project
management capacity;
(iv)    the program of studies, and
(v)    the quality of expert services provided.
7.33   As this project will be a first effort of the kind in the sector in the country and the investment is
front loaded, the visits of supervision missions will be more frequent in the early stages: every four
months in the first year of implementation, every six months thereafter, each visit involving a total of
about 3 staff days. Other ad hoc missions or a longer stay in the field may be necessary for the resolution
of specific problems that may arise
I. Environmental Impact
7.34   The proposed project does not represent environmental risks. It has been assigned a "C"
environmental classification.
41



8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.1    The proposed project would significantly increase educational opportunities, particularly for
students from the more remote areas. An additional 735 children, or an increment of 10 percent of the
public secondary school places, will have access to secondary education via project-financed civil works.
Major improvements are expected in education provided throughout the compulsory cycle and, hence, in
student achievement and employment potential, from the considerable investments targeted toward
enhancing quantitatively and qualitatively the major educational inputs, i.e., trained teachers, curricula,
the schools library service, educational materials, testing and measurement, and school plant. The
disadvantaged minority group, (Caribs) will be specifically assisted through the educational materials
that would be supplied to the four school located in the Carib reserve territory, and their access to
secondary education would be enhanced by the provision of the secondary school in Castle Bruce.
About 1,000 children, half of which from the Carib territory, would benefit from project support for
textbooks to disadvantaged schools. An improved quality of primary education is expected to help
ensure that many more students will be prepared to benefit fully from secondary education, as access to it
increases. The project should also contribute significantly to building institutional capacity, particularly
at the MOE central Headquarters, district and school levels. It promotes increased collaboration between
key public and private sector entities involved in the education sector at the national and regional level;
the reforms undertaken are consistent with the OECS Education Reform Strategy. Project support to
such discrete areas as achievement testing, integrated education data systems, and expansion and
upgrading of educational materials production, will create a basis for OECS regional collaboration, given
common interest in these initiatives.
B. Risks
8.2    The principal risks associated with the project relate to: (i) inadequate institutional capacity to
carry out the education reform process; (ii) the stringent fiscal situation; (iii) possible failure to adjust
or to closely monitor compliance with the adjustment of the teacher to student ratios in primary and
secondar,, schools; and (iv) PMU problems in meeting the administrative demands presented by heavy
front ie.Jding of implementation over the first three years, given limited execution experience with Bank
financed projects. To minimize potential institutional failures, strong emphasis is placed on sector
planning and institutional strengthening, including extensive staff upgrading via both overseas and local
training, and Government assurances that the MOE personnel complement will be expanded to ensure
that expertise exists to fulfill its broad education sector development mandate.
8.3    To promote inter-country collaboration, high priority will continue to be assigned to pooling
technical resources, encouraging the use of Caribbean expertise, sharing of experiences and developing
regional interaction, where appropriate and feasible. Several measures are being taken to facilitate
smooth, timely project implementation, amid front loading of investments, including: (a) advancing
crucial start-up activities, e.g., architectural designs and equipment and furniture specification lists, to be
carried out before Effectiveness, via Japanese grant funds; (b) training of PMU staff in key management
areas prior to project implementation, to be facilitated by retroactive financing; and (c) provision of 8
42



months of Project Management expert services to support the PMU over the initial months of project
execution.
8.4    Given vulnerabilities of this small economy to external factors and shocks, Government project
financing has been kept within easily met ranges at present and projected GDP, and has been
concentrated on the local cost portion of the costs. Incremental recurrent costs, often hampering
achievement of education sector reforms, will be offset by resources to be released from adjusting
teacher to student ratios over the project implementation period. The effective realization of these
savings and their transfers to the agreed purposes will be closely monitored on the base of a schedule to
be included in the Education Strategy Letter. Minimization of financial risks is achieved through the
choice of loan product by the Government: fixed rate US dollar SCL (para. 6.7). Moreover, the project
places emphasis on the early preparation of a long term sector development plan which would serve as a
vehicle for achieving national consensus on the principal directions of sector development into the next
decade.
8.5    Finally, the monitoring system and annual evaluations will pernit to adopt timely adjustments
in project implementation needed to achieve project objectives.
43



9. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
9.1    At negotiations, the Government and IBRD and IDA reached final agreement on:
(a) the general content of the Education Strategy Letter (Para. 5.3). The letter will describe:
(i) the Government education sector reform strategy;
(ii) the expected budget adjustment to ensure the availability of funds to finance the
strengthening of management and planning and the provision of instructional supplies,
materials and maintenance, and
(iii) the priority actions the Government will take to effect the reform;
(b) the general content of the Project Implementation Manual (Para. 7.2). The PIM would
pay special attention to the following topics described in detail in the relative paragraphs in
parenthesis:
(i)    project objectives and content;
(ii)   the applications of Bank guidelines where relevant in implementing the project;
particularly on procurement and disbursement procedures;
(iii)   IBRD and IDA prior review (Para. 7.23);
(iv)    Special Account and withdrawal applications for replenishment (Para. 7.24)
(v)    Project Account (Para. 7.25);
(vi)    Project Accounting and Auditing (Para.7.30); and
(vii)    Project Performance Reporting and Reviews (Paras 7.31-7.33), including the
project monitoring and evaluation indicators as delineated in Annex 7, Table 5.
9.2    As conditions of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government will present to the Bank and
Association:
(i) the Education Strategy Letter, prepared in terms satisfactory to the Bank and the
Association;
(ii) the Project Implementation Manual, issued in terms satisfactory to the Bank and
Association along with evidence that this Manual is in full force and effect; and
(iii) evidence that the Governrment has opened a Pr ject Account in a bank acceptable to
the Bank and the Association, and deposited into such account an amount equivalent to
44



not less than US$250,000 for implementation of the project, and that the Government
would maintain a positive balance in such account over the implementation period, in the
amounts stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement, during which period all
project activities are expected to be fully executed.
B. Recommendation
9.3    With the above agreements and assurances, the Project would constitute a suitable basis for a
Loan of US$3.07 million equivalent and a Credit of SDR 2.1 million (US$3.07 million equivalent) to the
Commonwealth of Dominica.
45



ANNEXES AND APPENDICES
46



Annex 1
A.      General Country Data
1w             Source
1. Population Estimate (thousand)                          72      1993          b
3. GNP per Capita (US$)                                    2,680  1993            b
4. GNP per Capita -- Real Growth Rate (%)                  4.8    85-93           b
5. Area (thou. sq. Km.)                                    0.75    1993           f
6. Density (pop. per sq. Km.)                              94.67   1993           f
7. Agricultural land (% of land area)                      25.3   1993            f
8. Forest Coverage (% of land area)                        59      1990           b
B.     Social Indicators
1. Crude birth rate                                        25.5   1992            a
2. Crude death rate (per 1,000)                            7.9    1992            a
3. Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)            -0.3   1985-93         b
4. Total Fertility Rate (births per woman)                 2.5    1992            b
5. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)           18      1992           b
6. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                        72      1992           b
7. Child Malnutrition (% underweight)                      5       1992           b
3. Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending as a % of GNP            18     1993           e
Total Public Recurrent Education Spending as a
% of Central Govt budget                                17.1   1994           d
Shares of Public Recurrent Education Expenditures
(including contribution to UWI)
Primary                                             52.7                  d
Secondary                                           27.3                  d
Higher                                              11.7                  d
Other                                                8.3                  d
Sources
a             Demographic Statistics, 1993
b             The World Bank Atlas, 1995
c             Commonwealth of Dominica, Education Statistics, 1994
d             Budget Estimates of Dominica 1994/95
e             National Accounts Statistics for the Commonwealth of Dominica, 1994
f             Social Indicators for Development, 1995
47



Annex 2
Tabk IA: Primary Schools Staff and Enrolment
Prmry        No. of   Students /
Academic Year       No.of Schools      Enrllment   teachers   Teacher
1984/85                            66         16,833        612        27.5
1985/86                            66         16,102        612        26.3
1986/87                            65         15.872        616        25.8
1987/88                            65         15,510        617        25.1
1988/89                            65         14,975        624        24.0
1989/90                            65         14,376        595        24.2
1990/91                            65         14,314        670        21.4
1991/92                            65         13,663        598        22.8
1992/93                            65         14,500        637        22.8
1993/94                            65         14,796        636        23.3
1994/95                            65         14,320        660        21.7
Chart IA: Primary School Enrolmnent Trends
Plrmay EnmDment
18,0C0
14,000
10,000
ISPrImaY Frsdhtnm
8,0a00    *           *          a[                       *          a***[ 
0
L             1984F5      19&5V86     1983/87     1987/88    19SSv89     1951S0      199W1       1991/92     1992i90     199i4       1994D5
Table IB: Secondary Schoos Staff and Enrolnent                                              Tabk IC: 1994-1995 Academic Year
Secondary School
Year        Schools      Enrolment          Teachers      Students/Tescher                 Shol   Enronlmet           Staff       Stud./Teach
19S4/85              9            3,439             162                  21.2               Government
1985/86              9            3,347             188                  20.2                Goodwill          451              23            19.6
1986/87             11            3,190             17t                  18.7                PorESMout         4S5              24            20.2
1987/88             11            3,240             182                  17.8                Grand Bay         311              2i            14.8
1988/89             11            3,275             175                   18.7               St. Joseph        521              33            15.8
1989/90             11            3,344             142                  23.5                D/ca Gram         520              32            16.3
1990/91             11             n.a.             205                   n.a.             Total             2,288             133            17.2
1991/92             14            4,538             251                  18.1                AssIted
1992/93             14            4,538             282                  17.3                Convem            511              31            16.5
1993/94             14            4,481             258                  17.5                Communit          137               9            15.2
1994/95             14            4,511             289                  18.8                St.Andrew         347              19            18.3
St. Mary's        383              24            16.0
Marigot            75               4            18.8
St. Martin'       294              22            i3.4
Wesley            224              16            14.0
St. Johns          30
Total            2,001             125            16.0
Privat
Figura ioclude pimary a1 aeearyive scdools                                                   D/ca SDA          222              11            20.2
48



Annex 2
Table ID: Teachers Qualifications
1993/94
No.    %
Primary Level
Specialist                               11    2%
Professionally Trained                  237   37%
Untrained                              388   61%
-Permanent                            165   26%
-Temporary                            223   35%
TOTAL Primary Level                     636  100%
Secondary Level
Graduate Teachers                        71   28%
-Profess. Trained                      27    11%
-Untrained                             44    17%
Specialist                               20    8%
Non-Degree Teachers                     165   64%
-Profess. Trained                      21     8%
-Untrained                            144   56%
TOTAL Secondary Level           256   100%
49



Annex 2
Table 2A
COMMON ENTRANCE EXAMINATION RESULTS 1984/85 - 1992/1993
Academic Yea              No. Sat               No. Entered Secondary School            Percent pass
Male     Female      Total      Male      Female     Total      Male      Female      Total
1984/85             958      1,324      2,282       235        314        549     24.5%      23.7%      2-4.1%
1985 /86            873      1,198      2,071       206        320        526     23.6%      26.7%      25.4%
1986 /87            889      1,173      2,062        210       323        533     23.6%      27.5%      25.8%
1987 /38            843      1,132      1,975       200        328        528     23.7%      29.0%      26.7%
1988 /89            762        960      1,722        244       317        561     32.0%      33.0%      32.6%
1989 /90            862        950      1,812        217       343        560     25.2%      36.1%      30.9%
1990 /91            858        949      1,807        329       415        744     38.3%      43.7%      41.2%
1991 /92            987      1,024      2,011        316       427        743     32.0%      41.7%      36.9%
1992 /93            978      1,030      2,008       289        420        709     29.6%      40.8%      35.3%
Source: Commonwealth of Dominica, Education Statistics, 1994
Table 2B
1984 AND 1992 CXC RESULTS FOR SELECTED SECONDARY SCHOOLS
1984                                       1992
National                                   National
No.Sat  No.Passed   % Pass    % Pass    No.Sat  No.Passed   % Pass    % Pass
Government
Portsmouth          49         46     93.9%      84.6%        376        219     58.2%     50.30%
St. Joseph            -         -                             654        243     37.2%     50.30%
Assisted
Convent            289        251     86.9%      84.6%        409        191     46.7%     50.30%
Community            4          4    100.0%      84.6%        152         59     38.8%     50.30%
St.Andrew's         35         13    37.1%       84.6%        233        122     52.4%     50.30%
St. Mary's         135        122     90.4%      84.6%        409        191     46.7%     50.30%
Wesley              56         30    53.6%       84.6%         96         45     46.9%     50.30%
Private
D/ca SDA              -         -                             112         35     31.3%     50.30%
Source: Commonwealth of Dominica, Education Satistics, 1994
50



Annex 2
Table 3A
Secondary Schools Drop Outs by Foxm and and Gnder
I                 n                 II                 IV                 v                 VI              TOTAL             % RATES
M     F    Tot   M       F    Tot   M      F    Tot   M       F    Tot   M       F  Tot      M     F    Tot   M       F   Todt Mae Fal Total
1) 1984/85      6    18   24      7      8    15     7    13   20       4    14    18     0      4     4     0     0     0    24    57    81   1.9   2.6   2.3
2) 195/86       6    17   23       8     7    15    13   24    37       7    40    47      1     3     4     0      1     1    35    92   127   2.9   4.3   3.6
3) 986/87       2     4     6      4     7    11    15    22    37    15   26    41        1     5     6     0     0      0    37    64   101   3.1   3.2   3.2
4) 1967/38      6     7    13      8     9    17     8    11    19      8    18   26       1     5     6     0      1     1    31    51    82   2.4   2.6   2.5
5) S8/89        5     3     8      6     7    13    18     9    27    27    26    53      2      5     7     0      1     1   58    51   109   3.9   2.6   3.3
6)1989/90       8     3    11   20    16   36    18    18    36    15         8    23     2      1     3     0     0      0    63    46   109   4.6   2.3   3.5
7) 190/91       5    13    18   22    12    34    20    12    32    16    13   29          3     2     5     0     3      3    66    55   121   4.8   2.8   3.8
8)1991/92       5     2     7    17    19   36       4    23    27      6    16   22       0     2     2     0     0      0    32    62    94   1.7   2.3   2.0
Table 3B
Secondary Schoob Repeaters by Fom and and Gender
I                 II                Hi                 IV                 V                 VI              TOTAL             % RATES
M     F    Tot   M       F    Tot   M      F    Tot   M       F    Tot   M       F  Tot    M       F    Tot   M       F   Total Mkle Fal Tdtl
1) 1984/85     37    41    78    28    63    91    32    80   112    23    76    99        1    7      8     0     0      0   121   267   388   9.8  12.1  11.0
2 1985/86      27    31    58    30    55    85    37    75   112    40    90   130        0     5     5     0     0      0   134   256   390  11.0  12.0  11.5
3) 1986/87     19   24    43    27    46    73    24    56    80    29    78   107        0      0     0     0      0     0    99   204   303   8.4  10.2   9.3
4) 1987/88     24    15    39    27    20    47    29    27    56    16   25    41         5     6    11     0     0      0   101    93   194   8.0   4.7   6.4
5) 1988/89     14   23    37    22    22    44    35    43    78    29    57    86         1     0     1     0     0      0   101   145   246   7.8   7.3   7.6
6) 199/90      28    46    74    15    16    31    31    38    69    22    37    59        1     1     2     0     0      0    97   138   235   7.0   7.0   7.0
7) 1990/91     46    46    92    32    41    73    23    29    52    43    45    88        1     0     1     0      0     0   145   161   306  10.6   8.6   9.6
8) 1991/92     60    56   116    70    47   117   71    42   113    30    24    54         0     0     0     0     0      0   231   169   400  12.3   6.3   9.3
Chart 3A: Drop-ott Rates                                                            Chart 3B: Repetition Rates
50   --- ------------------------------ ------140-...............................................-......................................
1.5
40.
3.0                      4      5       6      7                                  .
1.5                                                           6.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  3 4TO6                7
Source: T'he Corimonwelth of Dominica, Education Statistics, 1994
51



Annex 2
Tabe 4
DONMINCA: BASIC EDUCATION RIFFORM PROJECT
Growth of Secondary School System
Year                                Data on Public Secomiary Schools and Juior Secondary Schools (ISS)
Number of                        New                            Converted from JSP    Secondaxy School Enrolhnent
Sec.Schools                                                      programs to 5-year    (it includes D/ca SDA-private)
Schools
1970/1    4 (*)
1971/2    5            Portsmouth Seondary,
D'ca Grammar becomes co-educational
1979/80   7            St. Andrew's H.S. and D/ca Community High
1980/81   8            Marigot Foundation
1985/6    8            Stloseph 's establish a JSP                                                           3347
1986/7    8            Gran Bay, St Martin's and Goodwill establish JSP                                      3190
programs
1987/8    8                                                                                                  3240
1988/9    9            Grand Bay Secondary                                                                   3275
1989/90   10                                                            St.John's HS                        33444
1990/1    13                                                            StJoseph, St. Martin,                n.a.
and Goodwill
Grand Bay Sec. absorbs
the JSP
199i/2    13                                                                                                 4536
1992/3    13                                                                                                 4536
1993/4    13                                                                                                 4481
1994/5    13                                                                                                 4511
(*) D'ca Grammar (Boys), St. Mary's (Boys); Convent (Girls); Wesley (Girls))
Source: MOE
52



Chart 1               Annex 2
Domlbica
Basic Eduscti.. Rererm Project
Structure ofthe School System
CXCIGCE
Secondary School                       09 Level
CDC or Voc.  ~           Lbo Make
|   Junior Secondary ProT                       C    
Level
JSPE
Skills Training Cmr.                                                 TTC (Teacher
Education)
Lab r Marke                Primary school Teaching
Labor Market
Pre-School
Primary Cycle                                                             Secondary Cycle                                      Teitiary Cycle
Age: 5-1I                                                                 Age: 12-16                                           Age: 17+
53



Chart 2             Annex 2
DOMINICA
Current Organigram of Ministry of
Education and Sport
Minister of
Education
I
Permanent
Secretary 1
F  Sports  |   |  Projet Dev            Youth offce              Chief Eduation           Tertiary education            Assistant                 Executive
|   Cooidjntor   |   |  OOficer                                         f                        Advisor                  Secretary                  Officer
Chief            Manager School            Building Maint                                                  Dupigny                                               SEO
Librarian           Feedin Prog.                Officer                                                      College                                            Personnel
Drector  ETrSEO
Divsion                    safAcoounts
|School Library       Public Library       Documentation                                                                            L-
Service              Service               Center
Director Academic
DMsion                                               Staf
EO          | |Coordinator   | |             Name       |   |AE          Lfor Muk                E S   EO            EO       ||EO for District|
| Curriculum    | |TachNVoceEduce T|   |             M               of |SeaEdueation || Seeondary    |                TC       ||NW and SE |
|   Specialist    l    AEO                                                               | Local registrar of ||   Stats              StDres
Offeer       | | Curriculum                                                                     Exams      || Astat                    Clerck
54



Proposed MOE Organization and Sector Budget: Annex 3
Table 1: Recurrent Expenditure
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION (In EC$)
89/90         90/91         91/92          92/93         93/94         94/95 5
Recurrent
Education         20,019,441    22,896,830    24,552,749    25,980,305    27,415,354    29,775,800
Total            111,236,550   135,353,208   141,120,971   150,511,765   165,758,297   174,265,020
%                    18.00%         16.92%        17.40%         17.26%        16.54%        17.09%
Does not include the contribution to UWI
* Estimates
Chart IA: Recurrent Expenditure in the Education Sector and Total National Recurrent Expenditure
Recurrent Expenditure
in EC$
180,000,000                                                                      ------
160,000,000
140,000,000                                 _                                 _ _ 
120,000,000
100,000.000  -                                                                         U Education
80,000,000  _l Total
60,000.000 -_                  
40,000,000 -
20,000,000 -*m
891go       90/91        91192       92/93        93/94       94195I
Chart 18: Recurrent Expenditure In Education as a Percentage of Total National Recurrent Expenditure
Recurrent Expenditure In Education as a % of Total
18.00%                                   .
17.00%  _
16.50%
16.00%  _      *]
15.50%                   E       E       =j        *
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94   94/95
55



Proposed MOE Organization and Sector Budget: Annex 3
Table 2: Capital Expenditure
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION (in ECS)
89190        90/91        91192        92/93        93/94        94/95 *
Capital
Education          1,778,503    2,066,694   2,760,095    1,410,681      2,081,870   12,728,270
Total             80,831,969   58,862,320  35,700,205  27,007,183   27,229,666 123,066,980
%                     2.20%         3.63%        7.73%       5.22%         7.65%        9.94%
Estimates
Chart 2A: Capital Expenditure in the Education Sector and Total National Capital Expenditure
Capital Expenditure
140,000,000
120,000,000
100,000,000
80,000,000 - _                                                                     Education
60,0,000-                        -_l__                                     |        Total
40,000,000
20,000,000                                ____
89/90      90191      91192       92193      93194      94/95
Chart2B: Capital Expenditure in Education as a Percentage of Total National Capital Expenditure
CpKial Expenditur In Education as a % of Total
10.00%
9.00%
8.00%
7.00%
6.00%-
6.00%
5.00%
3.00%
2.00%
1.00%
0.00%
89/90     90/91      91/92     92/93     93/94     94/95
56



Proposed MOE Organization and Sector Budget: Annex 3
Table 3A
Primary Level
Recurrent
Enollment * Budget in EC$ Cost/Student Cost/Student
AY1994/95 (94/95 Estimates)    EC$      US$ Equiv.
13,751      15,553,300       1,131         419
* Enrollment does not include private schools
Table 3B
Secondary Level
Recurrent
School      Enollment  Budget in EC$  Cost/Student Cost/Student
AY1994/95 (94/95 Estimates)    EC$      US$ Equiv.
Government
Goodwill               451         447,380         992         367
Portsmouth             485         748,030        1,542        571
Grand Bay              311         455,990        1,466        543
St. Joseph             521         844,100        1,620        600
D/ca Grammar           520         994,980        1,913        709
Total                 2,288        3,490,480       1,526         565
Assisted
Total                 2,001        4,056,000       2,027         751
TOTAL                 4,289        7,546,480       1,759         652
Source: Commonwealth of Dominica, Education Statistics 1994 and Budget Estimates, 1994195
* Enrollment does not include private schools
57



Proposed MOE Organization and Sector Budget: Annex 3
Table 4
DOMINICA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
MOE Recurrent Budget on Education
1994-95 in ECS
Estimates of Expenditures
Saaries           Other                 Travel      Supplies      Grants            Other    Operations        Total
Teachers         Salaries       Office  General     Materials                       (misc.)  Maintenance
tools
Equipment
Pre School                -    -           -    -                 -            -       42,000                -                     42,000
Primary           15,008,000         32,000                  75,000      190,000        2,000           73,000       150,000   15,553,300
Special Education   152,100           12,780                  2,500     4,500               -                 -        2,000      173,880
Secondary          6,437,830 U     1,108,650 21             24,000    252,500         300,000  #              -      182,500    8,005,480
TechNVoc                   -                                           79,000          45,000                         15,000      139,000
(Mgmt of JSP)
Tertiary                                                                                             -                     -   3,495,775
(ITC CDC UWI)
Library                    -                          -                  -            -                                    -      68,930
Admir. & Central           -       6,376,470                273,560       40,000        4,000           23,500                  1,717,530
Total                                                                                                               29,755,895
National                                                                                                                      174,265,020
Recurrent Total
/        Ansume S3.4 mDlil.a hr Aabsted Stloob
2/       AssumesoutofAssisted SchoolsGrnt, S356,000fornon teachingsalries and$15,000 forsuppliesand S15,00 forOperation and maintenance.
3/       Assumption as to the share of t   scholarship allowance of S407,770 that goes to secondary students, with the balance to CDC students.
58



Proposed MOE Organization and Sector Budget: Annex 3
Chart 3
DOMINICA
Proposed Organigram of Ministry of
Education Youth Affairs and Sports
Minister of
Education
Permanent
Secretary
I; muwy QI    St
g  Lbra1win   gCDC
1        I                                    1              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrc    rSFOI
School Lbrary  Assilftri CEO                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Personnel
ISdiool L                      - ay
5          lmentUni   | Dew e blpm    nUi    llltt nt  
Steff
PtGc Llbrwy            prosd          CLIruiaum 
tdkZ SuWpUX                                                 I                                      E
| Doagnthn L    d"Unks            Cuaux a-W-                          Ind      >                                 Acssnt_
and Cntenane     Spe -its                            |EEOS                                        SEa
Educ*km  Edcfbra                                                                  staff
A   Educ ihral | TOW,9    _           t,-r-ol                                              L_ _   _ 
stisbt.;c unit  Mmasrernwit             Unt
Ex mkwkbnUn
*mEb,   _. 1wl f EO b0 5* ," U bog of s. a,bm, h, 5 .  5
59



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
DOMINICA: PROPOSED BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
WORKNG PAPER ON BUDGETARY REALLOCATION IN EDUCATION
1.     In the education sector in Dominica, there are two overriding efficiency issues--one concerning
the efficiency of management and the other the efficiency of the schools:
(a)    the absence of sufficient specialized management staff to lead and guide the schools and
(b)    the low share of school budgets spent on non-salary items.
The management deficiency is masked by the persistent, hard work of a few, but a broader effort is
needed to sustain reform and to keep costs within reasonable limits. Low non-salary expenditure
seriously affects teacher morale and student performance.
2.     The financial commitment being made by the Government to education falls within the
reasonable range (15% and 25%) of the national recurrent budget. The sector share is budgeted to be
17.7% in 1994-5 (including the UWI subvention of $1,354,865). This is lower than the share allocated in
St. Lucia (22-25%), but it is expected to rise over the long term. In the current fiscal situation, the
immediate solution to funding deficiencies in the sector would lie in an intra-sectoral reallocation of the
sector budget rather than in an immediate increase in the sector share of the national budget.
3.     This Working Paper examines how resources might be found within the existing budget to
strengthen sector management and more effectively provide the schools with the furniture, equipment,
materials and supplies and the maintenance services essential to good teaching.
4.     Adjustment of Teacher to Student Ratios. We tend too readily to equate high teacher to
student ratios with high quality in education, although research has shown that teacher to student ratios,
except at the extremes, bear little relationship to student performance. Examples in Dominica as
elsewhere, show that the "best" performing public schools do not generally have the highest ratios but
they are the best managed.
5.     The current teacher to student ratios in Dominica are far more generous than those in numerous
countries in similar, worse or better economic circumstances , and these ratios are becoming even more
Data from a sample of countries according to the UNESCO S5islcal Yearbook 1993:
Country              Per Capita GNP (USS)  Primary Students Per Teacher   Secondary Students Per Teacher
1992 [World Bank Data]
Year         No.         Year         No.
Cameroon                      820               1990          51          1989         32
Gabon                        4450               1991          44          1991         32
Zimbabwe                      520               1992          38          1990         27
Jamaica                      1340               1990          37          1985         31
Trinidad & Tobago            3940               1990          26          1990         20
Korea                        6790               1992          33          1992         24
Philippines                  770                1991          33          1991         32
Dominica (MOE data)          2520               1994          22          1994         17
60



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
generous. For example, Table IA, Annex 2 shows an increase in the ratios for both public and private
schools from  1:27.5 in 1984-85 to 1:21.7 in 1994, and it is estimated that in 1995 it has reached 1:20.5.
This has resulted in no clear improvement in the quality of primary education. At secondary level, the
increase was from 1:21.2 (Table I B, Annex 2) to 1: 16.6 over the same period of time during which the
performance of secondary schools in the CXC deteriorated (Table2B, Annex2). Moreover, there are no
firm standards--ratios are not now uniform across the country. In primary education, where the average
2
ratio was 1:23.4 in 1994-95 , individual schools ranged from  1:11 to 1:33 and in secondary education,
where the average was 1:16.5, they ranged from  1:13.4 to 1:20.2.3
6.       It therefore appears necessary for the Ministry to establish realistic standards and apply them
judiciouslv, taking into account the special needs of small schools, which, even with a more rational
distribution of schools, the use of multi grade teaching and clustering, will require more generous ratios
than large schools.4 An average ratio of 1:30 at primary level and 1:25 at secondary level (if no 6th
forms are involved) is not unreasonable. In the medium term, a feasible aim  would be 1:26 at primary
and 1:20 at secondary level, with the longer term  (i.e. 10 year) objective of 1:30+ and 1:25, respectively.5
7.       Decisions on staff to student ratios and the organization of schools and curricula are only part of
a complex of decisions on delivering educational services, all of which have large financial implications
when applied system-wide. This complex needs to be carefully thought out and based on policies and
standards arrived at in full recognition of their financial and educational implications. The system-wide
financial impact of small changes in ratios is considerable. Hence, schools should be: (a) guided on their
staffing needs in view of the limited resources available; (b) helped to use staff efficiently and (c)
advised on economic alternatives in organizing curricula and time-tables. For this crucial leadership
role, the Ministry needs more trained, senior staff.
2 More work will be needed to establish the exact ratio. The MOE figures on current staffing are incomplete and do not show the
numbers on leave or the temporary staff substituting for them. This deficiency does not affect the validity of the phasing shown in Table
1; it merely means that the starting point is yet to be precisely determined.
3 Among the 59 primary schools,3 had no data on staff, 13 were 1:16 or above, l5were between 1:17 and 1:21, 21 between 1:22 and
1:26, and 7 below 1:27. The 13 secondary schools fell between 1:13.4 and 1:20.2, excluding one that had no staff data.
For example, for an average nation-wide ratio of 1:28, the actual ratios by public school might be as follows:
Enrollment             Standard Ratio                          Impact as applied to existing system:
Actual No. of     Actual No. of          Req'd teachers    Students per teacher
Schools           students           (rounded off)
>90                    1:20                        14               706                      37                    19.1
90-120                 1:22                         8               830                      37                   22.4
121-179                1:24                        7               1,047                     44                   23.S
180-256                1:27                       11              2,328                      87                   26.8
257-344                1:30                         5              1585                      53                   29.9
345+                   1:32                        14              7240                     226                   32.0
Total                                              59             13,751                    484                   28.4
For further reductions, the larger schools can move to 1:35, bringing the average to 1:30.
5 Currently, the increase is occurring at the secondary level while there is a decline at the primary level. By 2001 there will probably
be some increase in the primary level school age population but this will probably be offset in the primary schools by the increased rate
of transition of children of the post primary age group into the secondary schools. Detailed analysis will be needed to refine the
projections.
61



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
8.      The 1994-95 budget for salaries constitutes 94.8%  of the total Primary sub-sector allocation and
94.9% of the Government Secondary School budget. Funds for other urgent needs of the schools--
supplies, materials, repairs of physical plant, testing, supervision, training etc.--to provide the
environment in which principals, teachers and students can perform at an optimal level are therefore
quite constrained. Shifting funds from salaries to these other school purposes, would represent a more
balanced and productive mix of resources for teaching.
9.      No drastic measures would be needed in order to achieve this adjustment. Phasing the change
would obviate the need to retrench teachers, but would reduce sharply the recruitment of new ones over
the next few years. Such a slowdown would present an opportunity for consolidation--improving
average qualification levels and performance standards of teachers. The slowdown should begin soon
because primary enrollment is in the process of a decline which might endure for a few years.
TABLE 1 Parts 1-3 sets out the implications of such phasing.
TABLE 1                      ADJUSTMENT OF TEACHER TO STUDENT RATIOS
Part 1. The Demand for Teachers
Year        Enrollment     Students       Teachers Needed     3%           Transfers to         New recruits
Primary (Public)   per Teacher    & in place      Attrition    Secondary & Admnin..
1994-95    13,751 (actual)   21.6(actual)              638          18                    2
1995-96    13,737(projected)   22.2                    618          18                    2
1996-97    13,723            22.9                      598          18                    2
1997-98    13,709            23.7                      578          17                    2
1998-99    13,695            24.5                      559          17                    1
1999-00    13,691            25.2                      542          16
2000-01    13,685            26.0                      526           16
Enrollment                                                                            New Recruits
Secondary                                                      Transfers to Admin.   (Include. transf
from Prim.)
1994-95    4,289 (actual)    16.6(actual)              258           8                                        2
1995-96    4,290             17.0                      252           8                    7                  20
1996-97    4,5006            17.5                      257           8                    7                  26
1997-98    4,815             18.0                      268           8                    2                  14
1998-99    5,025             18.6                      272           8                     -                  8
1999-00    5,175             19.3                      272           8                                        4
2000-01    5,280             20.0                      270           8                                         -
6 Projectons assune growth at Castle Bruce, 1996-7 to 2000-01, Grand Bay and Portsmoudt, 1996-7 to 1997-98.
62



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
TABLE 1                             Part 2. Savings at constant 94/95 dollars
Total Salaries         No. of      Av. Salary       Salaries at cunrent     Salaries at reduced    Net Saving
1994         Teachers      per teacher       ratios in 2000-01     ratios in 2000-2001
Primn               15,007,674            638"          23,523             14,937,105               12,373,098      2,564,007
Sccondarv          6,437,83010             258          24,953             7,935,05411              6,737,310"1    1,197,744
21,445,504             896          23,935            222,872,159                19,110,408     3.761.751
TABLE 1                     Part 3. Growth of Savings Over the Period 1995-2001
Salary Costs by Cunrnt        Salary Costs by Revised                      Net Saving
Y_ar                                   Standards                     Standards
Primay       Secondary        Prinary      Sendary
1995-96                         14,9S4,151      6,437,874      14,537,214      6,288,156                       596,655
1996-97                         14,984,151      6,762,263      14,066,754      6,412,921                      1,266,739
1997-98                         14,960,628      7,236,370      13,596,294      6,687,404                      1,913,300
1998-99                         14,937,105      7,560,759      13,149,357      6,787,216                      2,561,291
1999-2000                       14,937,105      7,785,336      12,749,466      6,787,216                      3,185,759
2000-01                          14,937,105     87,935,054     12,373,098      6,737,310                      3,761,751
10.      Such an adjustment can yield, by 2000-01, some EC$3.8M. in "savings" to strengthen sector
management and improve direct support to the schools in terms of furniture, equipment, materials and
supplies and maintenance of physical plant. The transfer of savings to these purposes would need to be
guaranteed; otherwise, educational standards will decline even further and the frustration levels among
the teachers will rise.
7 These are 1994-95 figures which include terporary (or relief) teachers and the 30 trainees at WIC.
635 teachers at $23,523
9 526 at S23,523.
10 For the Assisted Schools a rough estimae ($3.4m.) has been made of the amount of the Government subvention ($4.085m.)
allocated to teachers salaries.
" 31 8atS24,953
!2 270 at $24,953
63



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
Strengthening Sector Managment.
11.      Although Dominica is a small country, it does need a broad range of administrative and technical
services to operate a viable education system. With careful use of staff, it can afford that range. The
additional staff required at Head Office to strengthen and improve operations and an estimate of its cost
are listed in the IALLEZ.
TABLE 2.                               NEW UNITS, STAFF AND COSTS (In ECSOOOS)
UNlT                           Salary      Travel      Off.+Gen.       FY95-6    FY96-97       FY97-98      FY98-99      FY99-00    FY20-01
1. Senior Management
*CEO'3
ACEO (P & D)                         48          6.3              8                       50         62.3        62.3         62.3           62.3
Typist/Clerk                         16                                                   16          16           16           16             16
ACEO (Schools)                       48         6.3               8                      31         62.3         62.3         62.3           62.3
SEO (Prinary)                        41          6.3              2                      40         49.3         49.3         49.3           49.3
*SEO (Secondary)
Subtotal                         153        18.9              IS                     137        189.9        189.9        189.9          189.9
2. Educational Planning & Statistics Unit (EPS)
Planning Officer                     45          6.3             10                     61.3         61.3        61.3         61.3           61.3
Research Officer                     36         6.3               3                      10.        42.3         42.3         42.3           42.3
Statistician                         44          6.3             15                                   33         65.3         65.3           65.3
Assistant Planning Officer           25          6.3              5                      30           30           30           30             30
Clerk/typist                          16                                                  16          16           16           16             16
Subtotal                  166        25.2             33                    117.3        182.6        214.9       214.9          214.9
3. Project Management Unit (PMU)
Project Manager                      45         6.3              15       25.0         64.3         66.3         66.3         66.3           66.3
Procuremnent Officer                44          6.3              15         25         60.3         65.3         65.3         65.3           65.3
Accountant                          44                            5         24           47           47           47           47             47
*Buildings Officer14                                             15                      10           15           15           15             15
02 Mtnce. Supervisors
Clerkttypist                         16                                      8           16           16           16           16             16
I Clerk/I Driver                    32                                      16           32           32          32           32              32
*Proc. Asst. (Stores/Clerk)
t3 Asterisk where a post already exists, hence excluded fimn cost estimates.
14   Now Project Development Officer
64



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
UNrr                         Salary     Travel     Off.+ Gen.     FY95-6    FY96-97    FY97-98    FY98-99    FY99-00    FY20-01
Subtotal                                           50        98        229.6       241.6       241.6       241.6         241.6
4. Testing, Measurement and Examinations Unit (E7;J
Testing Officer                   44         6.3            20                       -        70.3        70.3        70.3          70.3
Testing Officer                   42         6.3            15                     25         63.3        63.5        63.3          63.3
Testing Assistant                 35                        15                     17          45          50          50            50
Machine Operator                  22                        20                     22          42          42          42            42
*Rcgistrar of Exams
Asst. Registrar                   25                         5                     30          30          30          30            30
Clerk/Typist (2)                  32                                               16          32          32          32            32
Driver                            17                                                6          17          17          17            17
SubtoWal                                           80                    116       299.6       304.6       304.6         304.6
5. EducationalMaterials Unit (EME)
General Editor                    44         6.3            15                    18.0        60.3        65.3        65.3         65.3
Art Editor                        44         6.3            15                    18.0        60.3        65.3        65.3         65.3
Editorial Asst. (2)               35                        15                     34          80         100         100           100
Graphics Technician               25                        15                     20          40          40          40            40
Machine Operator (Shared                                    15                                 15          15          15            15
with ETX)
Clerk/Typist                      16                                                8          16          16          16            16
Sub-total                                          90                     98          79          17          17            17
6. Administration
Exec. Officer (Personnel)         30                                               30          30          30          30            30
Exec. Officer (Accounts)          30                                               30          30          30          30            30
Sub-total                                                    3                     60          60          60          60           60
7. Curriculum Development Unit (CDC9
s EO Curriculum                                               5                     5          5           5           5              5
Cu:rr/Off. (4 core areas)          41        6.3              8                    80      221.2        221.2      221.2           221.2
Curriculuin Asst.                  35                         3                               38          38          38             38
* Clerk/typist
Subtotal                                           40                    85      264.2        264.2       264.2          264.2
8. Schools Library Service
Assistant Librarian                29                        15                                           25          44             44
65



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
UNIT                    Salary   Travel    Off.+ Gen.    FY95-6  FY96-97   FY97-98   FY98-99   FY99-0O   FY20-01
Librny Assistant            17                    5                20       22        22        22          22
Library Technician          17                    5                20       22        22        22          22
Driver                      17                    -                 8        17       17        17           17
Subtotal                                 35                55       76        86       105          105
9. DEOIEast-CASTLE BRUCE:
Clerk/Typist                16                    8                 8       24        24        24          24
Sub-total                                                           8        24       24        24           24
TOTAL                                             98    886.9    1617.5    1702.8    1721.8       1721.8
12.    The preliminary estimate of recurrent cost is EC$1.72 million (US$65 1,000). Salary amounts
are not very precise and need to be refined by MOE. The phasing of staff needs to be refined as well.
The assumptions made here indicate the need for about 39 more positions, 24 at the professional level
and 15 at the clerical/technical level. The exact amount would depend on rationalizing the use of typists
and drivers (some of whom can come from the existing service); it remains to be determined how many
of the library positions are additional. About 20 of these new officers can come from staff in the schools,
either to fill the new positions or to replace officers promoted into new posts. This expenditure on Head
Office has its benefits. It will help to eliminate waste and inefficiencies arising from: (i) the inadequacy
of supervision and control, and (ii) delays in formnulating appropriate policies to deal with emerging
situations; and it will build the infrastructure for sustained sector reform and development, which by
itself would have required an increase in the staff. At present, only six percent of the sector budget goes
to management--about the lowest in the OECS. With this change in numbers, there will be modernized
equipping of offices and personnel training. These measures should raise the productivity of the
management and efficiency in the schools.
Improving Direct Support to the Schools.
13.   TABLE   sets out some idea of the improvement needed in the non-salary budgets at primary
and secondary levels and a possible phasing in of these:
66



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
TABLE 3    ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DIRECT SCHOOL SUPPORT:
SUPPLIES & MATERIALS AND OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE
(Amount shown in ECS000s)
Year           Primairy-Supplies &    Secondary-Supplies &    Primary-Operations &   Secondary-Operations&  Totsl
Materials           Materials          Maintenance          Maintenance         
Amount    ECS per   Amnount    ECS per   Amount    ECS per    Amount    ECS per
Student             Student             Student               Student
1995-96          -0-        -0-       4          4-       -0-        -0-       -0-         4         -0-
1996-97          -0-        -0-       4          4                   4                    -0-        -0-4
1997-98           4         -0-       4          4        4-         4-         0-        -0-        -0-
1998-99          170       12.41      80       15.92      200      14.60        50       9.95       500
1999-00          300      21.91      100       19.32      280      20.45       120       23.19       800
2000-01          380       27.77      173      32.77      300      21.92       175       33.14     1,028
(Cf.1994-95''    130        9.45       73      17.02      150      10.91       32.5      7.58      385.5)
14.    No figures are given for 1995-96 to 1997-98. In this period the funding for these perposes would
come from two sources: first, the regular MOE's budget at the current levels (which are expected to
remain constant throughout the project implementation period and beyond); second, the project capital
investments in supplies and rehabilitation. The present low recurrent allocations per student would be
raised substantially, but gradually, in order to permit management capacity and institutional procedures
to be built up in procuring and managing the goods and services to be provided. The project would assist
in this by the absorption of the existing services into the PMU where they would be better supported
professionally through the oversight of the procurement officer and the project manager. These services
would also be better equipped and provided more assured recurrent financing to undertake sector-wide
procurement of furniture, equipment, materials and supplies and the maintenance of buildings and
equipment.
15.    The impact, in per student terms, would be as follows:
Table 3/B
Year                 Primary Level (in EC$)                        Secondary Level (in EC$)
Supplies &           Operations &           Supplies &                Operations &
Materials          Maintenance              Materials                Maintenance
1994-95                   9.45                  10.91                17.02                        7.58
2000-01                  37.22                  32.83                49.79                       40.72
This will allow for a basic supply of equipment and materials and a limited number of books.
I5  These figures are supplied by MOE. The Official Estimates of Expenditure offer different figures
(Table 4).
67



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
Reallocation of Savings.
16.      The reallocation of savings (TABLE 4) will not only meet the needs indicated in regard to
management strengthening and school supplies; from the year 2000-01 it will leave substantial sums for
maintenance equipment and facilities in-service training and upgrading of teachers and other activities to
contribute toward improved quality of teaching (Appendix to Annex 6).
TABLE 4                                REALLOCATION OF SAVINGS (in EC$)
Year                                 Additional Allocations                          Savings Available from   Amount of Savings in
adjustment of ratios_c/   excess of Allocations
To Managemcnt      To Supplies &    To Operations &         Total
Strengthening_a/     Materials_b/    Maintenance_b/
1995-96                98,000               -0-                -0-        98,000                  596,655               498,655
1996-97               886,900             -0-_d/             -0-_d/      886,900                 1,266,739              379,839
1997-98             1,617,500             -0-_d/             -0-_d/     1,617,500                1,913,300              295,800
1998-99             1,702,800           250,000            250,000     2,202,800                 2,561,291              358,491
1999-00             1,721,800           400,000            400,000     2,521,800                 3,185,759              663,959
2000-01              1,721,800          553,000            475,000      2,749,800                3,761,751            1,030,951
_aSee TABLE 2 for details.
b/ Amounts shown here are additional to the 1994-5 provision which was $203,000 for Supplies & Materials and S182,500 for Operations &
Maintenance. The slow build-up in regard to these two categories (S & M and 0 & M) will permit time for the institutional strengthening to be
accomplished so that expenditure could be efficiently managed. See table 3 for details
cl Set Table IPasrt 3 for details.
dt Note: In 1996-8 there will be project capital investment in these categories while absorptive capacity is being built up.
17.      The adjustment will have an important impact both on the MOE and national recurrent budgets and
on the overall public service establishment. Table 5 presents the projected evolution of the sector budget;
this will need to be refined in the light of (a) some rationalizing of existing posts and duties and (b) the
proposed long range plan that will be prepared under the project. This set of projections allows modest
annual growth rates in some sub-sectors--technical/vocational (10%), tertiary (2% to 1997 and 5%
thereafter) and Pre-School (3% to 1997 and 10% thereafter). Without increases in these subsectors, the
overall sector budget would remain stable despite the overall enrollment increase. The overall growth of
the sector can be accommodated within about 16%  of the national recurrent budget, assuming that the latter
grows at about 2%  per annum. The sector share would decline from  17.1%  in 1994-95 to 16%  in 2000-
01.16
6These projections accept much of the status quo in the system. This should not be taken to mean that all of this is endorsed. For
example, the 43.9%/o growth in the Assisted secondary school budget between 1991-92 and 1994-95 outstrips the overall sector budget
growth of only 18% in the same period. Moreover, the wide inter-school disparities in per student costs at the secondary level is a problem.
These are among the issues that will be examined by the proposed secondary school study that to be undertaken in September-October of
1995.
68



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
Table 5. Projected Evolution of MOE Recurrent Budget-1995-2001
(in EC$000s)
Sub-sector              1994/5     1995/6     1996/7      1997/8     1998/9    1999/00    2000/01       Share of
budget (c/%)
Pre-School                42.0       43.3       44.6        45.9        50.4       55.4       61.0          0.19
Primary
(a) Teacher salaries  15,008.0   14,537.2   14,066.8   13,596.3   13.149.4   12,749.5   12,373.1          43.15
(b) Supplies &            280         280        280         280        650         860        960
Mtnance l
(c) Other costs         245.3       245.3      245.3       245.3      245.3       245.3      245.3
Special Educ.            173.9      179.1       184.5      190.0      195.7       201.6      207.6        0.656
Secondary
(a) Teacher Salaries   6,437.8    6,288.2    6,412.9    6,687.4    6,787.2    6,787.2    6,737.3          27.50
(b) Ot"her salaries     808.7       808.7      808.7       808.7      808.7       808.7      808.7
(c) Supplies &           105.5      105.5       105.5      105.5      235.5       235.5      453.5
Mtnance
(d) Other Costs         653.5       653.5      653.5       653.5      653.5       653.5      653.5
TechNocational           139.0      152.8       168.1      184.9      203.4       223.7      246.1         0.78
Tertiary (TTC,         3,495.7    3,565.6    3,636.9    3,709.6    3,895.1    4,089.9    4,294.4          13.65
CDC, UWI)
Library                 648.9       650.0      710.0       750.0      760.0       780.0      800.0         2.54
Administration &       1,717.5    1,730.0    2,600.0    3,436.0    3,530.0    3,530.0    3,630.0           11.53
Central
Sector Total          29,755.8   29,239.2   29,811.3   30,693.1   31,154.2   31,300.3   31,470.5         100.00
National Recurrent      174.27     177.76      181.32     184.95      188.64     192.42      196.27
Budget (EC$m.)
Sector as %of             17.1       16.4        16.4       16.6        16.5       16.3        16.0
National Budget
IL These figures are those identified by MOE for primary (and for secondary) and are different from those in the official estimates. The
dift'erence between these figures and the official estimates is included under Other costs which are not projected to increase in the same manner
as the suppli_s and maintenance costs. As indicated above, there will be substantial project investments in supplies and maintenance over
the period 1996-98: these capital costs are not shown here.
Source: 1994-95 figures calculated on the basis of data in the Draft 1994/95 Estimates of the Comsonwealth of Dominica
Govermment Printery, Roseau.
18.     The impact of the adjustment on the public establishment of posts is set out in Table 6. The
comparisons are presented only in respect of the sub-sectors in which change is brought about by the
adjustment.t"
There would be minor increases in such subsectors as tertiary, technical/vocational and special education; but these are not directly
connected with the adjustment program and the increases are expected to be negligible if efficiency measures are adopted.
69



The MOE and the Sector Budget - Annex 3 - Appendix
Table 6. Growth in Personnel Establishment in MOE
Year      Primary Teachers   Secondary Teachers   Admin. & Central   Library   Total
1994-95   638                258                  40                  14        950
1995-96   618                252                  45                  14        929
1996-97   598                257                   73                 17        945
1997-98   578                268                  76                  18        940
1998-99   559                272                  76                  18        925
1999-00   542                272                  76                  18        908
2000-01   526                270                   76                 18        890
Change   (112)                12                   36                 4         (60)
Source: Tables I & 2 above; 1994-95 Allocations of Staff and Pay Scales in the Civil Service. Commonwealth of Dominica
19.    Despite the increase in the number of central administration positions, the overall sector
establishment would decline by some 60 positions over the six year period. This decline would produce
benefits in the labor market, since it releases funds for improved supplies of educational materials to
schools and maintenance services that will stimulate activity in the construction industry, the book trade and
other distributive trades.
20.    The adjustment program would therefore produce the following important benefits:
(a)    it will provide for better planning and more efficient management of a sector that absorbs
an appreciable share of the national budget;
(b)    while maintaining teacher to student ratios at a reasonable and affordable level, it would
lead to a more productive use of available resources through improved provision of
educational materials, regular maintenance of school facilities and enhanced training,
supervision and support of teachers;
(c)    over the medium term, during the fiscal crisis faced by the Government, the overall burden
of the sector on the national budget would be maintained at its current level or slightly
reduced, and
(d)    it would be in line with the Government's effort to reduce the public personnel
establishment and stimulate private sector development and job creation.
70



Project Preparatory Studies: Annex 4
DOMINICA - BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATORY STUDEES
The Following Project Preparatory Studies are Available in the Project Files:
1.     Strengthening Management and Planning component.
Education Management and Planning, 1994, Dr.Una Paul
Cost and Financing of Education, May 1995, Dr. Ralph Henry.
Financial Management, June 1994, Mr. Livic Pino.
2.     Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education Component.
Teacher Training Component, Dominica, June 1994, Dr. Arthur Richardson.
School Supervision Component, Dominica, 1994, Dr. Donald Foster.
Curriculum Development-Science, August 1994, Ms. June M. George.
Curriculum Development-Language Arts, September 1994, Dr. Ian Robertson.
Curriculum Development-Mathematics, July 1994, Dr. Ian Isaacs.
Curriculum Development-Social Studies, October 1994, Ms. Betty Ann Rohlehr.
Educational Testing and Measurement, July 1994, Dr. Larry Skurnik.
Production, Procurement and Evaluation of Teaching Materials, June 1994, Mr. Daniel Koh.
3.     Expansion of Access Component
School Location Planning Study, October 1994, Mr. Rene Corradine.
Inventory of School Resources, July 1994, Mr. Michael Owen.
Protype Design and Site Survey, Watkins, Phillips, Bynoe & Partners Consultants (on-going)
Inventory of School Plant and maintenance Requirements, Watkins, Phillips, Bynoe & Partners Consultants (on-
going)
71



Schedule of Accommodation (MOE): Annex 5
SCHEDULES OF ACCOMMODATION FOR PROPOSED NEW CONSTRUCTION (in aq.ft.)
1.      ADMINISRATIVE OFFICES-TTC Complex
UNIT                    Office                                                Proposed Area
(sq./ft.)
Senior Management       Chief Education Officer (CEO)                                  140
Deputy CEO (P&D)                                               100
Deputy CEO (Schools)                                           100
Canteen                                                       1000
2 Secretaries & Waiting Area                                   150
Subtotal                                                     1490
Educ. Planning &        Planning Officer                                                90
Statistics
Research Officer                                               S0
Statistician                                                   90
Planning & Statistics Assts.                                   60
Typist & Filing                                                80
Documentation                                                 220
Subtotal                                                      620
Project Management      Project Manager                                                 90
Accountant                                                     80
Procurement Officer                                             80
Buildings Officer                                               80
Procurement Asst.                                              60
Maintenance Supervisors (2)                                    120
Typist & Waiting Area                                          80
Storeroom (incl. a/c space)                                   480
Subtotal                                                     1070
Testing & Exams         Testing Officers (2)                                           180
Testing Asst.                                                  60
Machine Room & Operator                                        190
Vault                                                         240
Typist & Clerk                                                 100
Examinations Section                                          240
Subtotal                                                     1010
Curriculum Development  EO Curriculum                                                   90
4 Curriculum Supervisors                                      320
Other offices for Curr. Supervisors (4)                       320
Typist & Clerk                                                100
Curriculum Asst.                                               60
Subtotal                                                      890
School Supervision      SEOs--(a) Primary (b) Secondary                                180
District EOs based in Roseau (2)1 & Reserve (1)               240
Clerk/Typist                                                   60
Subtotal                                                      480
Reading Materials        Editors (2)                                                    180
Art Editorial Asst (Graphics Artist)                    80
Editorial Assistant                                            80
Production Area & Machine Operator                            280
Typist & Clerk (2)                                            100
Carrels for part-time Writers                                 140
Subtotal                                                      860
Cormunal                 Ablution                                                       360
Meeting Rooms (500, 200)                                      700
Garage Covered Area                                          1200
Subtotal                                                     2260
SUBTOTAL                                                                            8680
Walls & Circulation      @ 25%                                                        2170
Total Base Area                                                                   10850
tAssumption that the two remaining ones are based in Portsmouth and Castle Bruce.
72



Schedule of Accommodation (OE): Annex 5
2.     SECONDARY SCHOOCastle Bruce
Assumptions: (See Tables 1 and 2 for calculation of needs)
A. General Secondary. Co-educational (curriculum as in schedule of Accommodation).
B. Total--525 places (3 streams--15 classes (35 each); minor attrition in Forms 4-5).
SPACE REQUIREMENTS (in sq.ft.)                                    20,900
Administrative:                                                   1,300
(Principal 120; Staff (22) 480; Stores 100;
Ablution 220; Bursar/Secretary 240; Rest area ("sick bay") 140.
Teaching:                                                        12,535
Classrooms--15 @ 525 =7,875; Home Economics 1,000; Science
1,660 (Chem/Physics 720, Biology/Agriculture 720, Prep, 220);
1ndustrial Arts, 800; Agriculture shed, 600;
Coinmunal:                                                        2,060
(Ablution 900; Canteen 400; Library 760)
Sub-total     15,895
Walls & Circulation at 25%                                        3,974
Open Covered area                                                 1,000
TOTAL                                                            20,869
3.  SECONDARY SCHOOLPORTSMOU1X
(a) Master Plan for Development of the School compound
(b) Extension:
I.     SPACE REQUIREMENTS OF EXTENSION (in sq.ft.)
A. Teaching:                                                 7,64S
(13 classrooms @ 525--6825; Biol/Ag. Lab. 720, Prep 100)
B. Communal:                                                   300
Ablution--300
Sub-total                                            7,945
C. Walls & Circulation at $ 25%                              1,986
D. TOTAL                                                     9.931
73



Schedule of Accommodation (MOE): Annex 5
4.     PORTSMOUTH Schools Libr= Servlce
Provision of a Schools Library Service Center to provide library services to the schools of the North, comprising library work
space
and storage space, reading room for Portsmouth schools, garage for bookmobile, ablution and special site works.
1.     SPACE REQUIREMENTS in sq.ft.
Administrative space                                             180
Reference                                                         80
Equipment & Shelving                                            220
Work & Storage Space                                            220
Reading & Collection Area                                       600
Ablution                                                         100
Garage                                                          500
Walls/Circ. (@25%)                                              475
TDW                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,375 sq.11.
5.     DIICf-CASTILBRUCE
1.     SPACE REQUIREMENTS:                                              2,100
A.     Admjnistrative:                                            550
(DEO 100; Secretary/lobby 100; Store/copy room 200: Other offices 150:)
B.     Conmmunal:                                                 350
(Ablution 200; Canteen 150)
C.     Sminsr Snaces:                                             840
(Library workspace and shelves 240; adjoining Lecture room 600)
Sub-total                 1,740
D. Walls & Circulation at 20%                                     348
E. TOTAL                                                        2,048
74



Schedule of Accommodation (MOE): Annex 5
Table 2
CLASS PERIODS BY  SUIMECT Cwtle Bruce Secodary School (35 periodstweek, 45 mins. each; 525 students; 15 forms)
Subject         Form I         Form 2            Form 3           Form 4            Form 5         Weekly          Period Distribution
Petiods
Req'd
(a)    (b)     (a)     (b)      (a)      (b)      (a)     (b)      (a)      (b)                  Class      Lab      Prac.
rooms              Room
Eng. Lang.           5     15        5      15        5       15        5      15         5      15          75          75
Eng Lit.             2      6        2       6        2        6        5       5         5       5          23          28
Mathematics          6     18        5      15        5       15        5      15         5      15          78          78
Geography                                                               5       5        5        5          10          10
History                                                                 5       5        5        5          10          10
Soc. Studies         5     15        5      15        5       15        5      10         5      10          65          65
Physics                                                                 5       5         5       5          10                   10
Chemistry                                                               5       5         5       5          10                   10
Biology                                                                 5       5        5        5          10                   10
Int. Sci.2           5     15        5      15        5       15        5       5         5       5          55          15       30        10
Phys. Educ.          3      9        2       6        2        6         -      -         -       -          21                             21
Family Life          1      3         1      3         1       3                                              9           9
Music                2      6        3       9        2        6                                             21          21
Home Econ.           2      6        2       6        2        6         -      -         -       -          18           5                 13
Food/Nutrit.                                                            5       5        5        5          10                             10
Cloth./Text.                                                            5       5        5        5          10                             10
Spanish              2      2        2      2         3        3        5       5        5        5          17          17
French               2      4        3      6         3        6        5      10        5       10          36          36
Ind. Arts            2      6        2      6         2        6                                             18                             18
Tech. Draw
Bldg Tech.                                                              5       5        5        5          10                             10
lotal Periods       35              35               35                70               70                  521         369       60        92
Spaces Required                                                                                                          15        2         4
Use factor at 35 periods per week.                                                                                    70 %      86%      below
Note (a) = no. of periods; Note (b) = no. of classes x no. of periods.
Specialist Teaching Spaces                Periods             Use Factor
Science labs--Chem/Phys; Biol/Agric.                   60                  86%
(a) Home Ec. l; (b) Ind. Arts 1.                 (a) 33 (b) 28       (a) 94% (b) 80%
CoveredArea(Phys. Ed.)                                 18                  51%
Agricultural Plot & Shed                               10                  29%
'Includes Agriculture in Forms 1-3.
75



Schedule of Accommodation (MOE): Annex 5
WORKSHEET FOR DETERMIEACG TEACER NEEDS
Table 3
Subject             Total                                  Distribution of Periods by teacher specialization
Periods
English      Maths     Music       Sci.     Home      French       Ind.        Soc.      Phys Ed.
Ec.                  Arts       Studies
Eng. Lang                75            75
Eng. Lit.                28            28
Maths                    78                       78
Chemistry                10                                            10
Mhvses                   10                                            10
Biology                  10                                            10
It. Sci.                 55                                           54                                 1
History                  10                                                                                         10
Geography                10                                                                                         10
Soc. Studies             65                                                                                         65
French                   36                                                                 36
Spanish                  17                                                                 17
Family Life               9                                  3                    6
Phys. Ed.                21                                                                                                     21
Music                    21                                 21
Home Ec.                 18                                                      18
Food/Nutrit              10                                                      10
ClothiTex.               10                                                      10
Id. Arts                 18                                                                             18
Bidg tech.               10                                                                             10
Total                   521           103         78        24        84         44         53         29           85          21
Teachers                213             4          3         1         3          2          2           1          3            1
Required
Average                                26         26        24        28         24         27         29          28           21
Teacher Load
3Includes one to make up for the Vice-principal and department Heads who would have a lighterr than ordinary teaching loads (e.g. the VP
20%. less and the deparetment heads 10-15% less). Bearing in mind current practice in Dominica and the desired goals in regard to teacher to
student ratios, the school should be allowed approximately:
Year 1-8 teachers (105 students); Year 2-13 teachers (210 students); Year 3--18 teachers (315 students); Year 4--20 teachers (420
students) and Year 5-21 teachers (525 students).
76



Annex 6
Table 1A
Dominica
Basic Education Project
Local/Foreign/Taxes by Financiers
(US$)
IBRD/IDA             The Government                 Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
1.  Foreign                            6,051,785      98.9         66,826       1.1     6,118,611       77.1
i1. Local (Excl. Taxes)                   88,706       6.9      1,204,335      93.1     1,293,041       16.3
III. Taxes                                      -         -      528,473    100.0         528,473        6.7
Total Project                             6,140,491      77.3      1,799,635      22.7     7,940,126    100.0
Table 1B
Dominica
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%    % Total
(EC$ '000)                (USS$ '000)       Fordgn  Base
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign Total  xbang  Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Construction of Office Space                       766    1,788    2,554     284      662     946       70       14
Construction and Expansion of Schools            1,648    3.846    5,494     610   1,424   2,035        70      30
Renov./Repair of Schools                          414       966    1,380     153      358     611       70       7
Subtotal Civil Works                               2,828    6,599    9,427   1,047   2,444   3,492        70      51
Goods
Equipment and Furniture
Computers, Printers and Software                  31      584      615      11     216      228       95       3
Other Equipment                                  45       846      890      16     313      330       95       5
Vehicles                                         23       433      456       8      161     169       95       2
Furniture                                       253       470      723      94      174     268       65       4
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture                   351    2,333    2,684     130      864     994       87      14
Books&Educat.Materials                             51       962    1,013       -9    356      375       95       5
Supplies and Miscell.                               33      626      658      12     232      244       95       4
Subtotal Goods                                       435    3,921    4,355      161   1,452   1,613       90      23
Technical Asistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                              113    1,018    1,131      42     377      419       90       6
Experts                                            264      793    1,057      98     294      391       75       6
Fellowships                                         83    1,580    1,663      31      585     616       95       9
Training                                           19s      190      379      70       70     141       50       2
Studies                                            173      173      346      64      64      128       50       2
Subtotal Technical Asistance                         823    3,753    4,576     305   1,390   1.695        82      25
Total Investment Costs                               4,086   14,273   18,359   1.513   5,286   6,800        78      99
Recurrent Costs
Maintenance
Equipment                                          105      157      262      39       58      97       60       1
Total Recunred Costs                                   105      157      262       39      58      97       60        1
Total BSEUNE COSTS                                    4,191   14,430   18,621   1,552   5,345   6,897        77     100
Physical Contingencies                              468    1,293    1,761      173     479      652       73       9
Price Contingencies                                  181      555      735      96     295      391       75       6
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                    4,840   16,278   21,118   1,822   6,119   7,940        77     115
77



Annex 6
Table IC
Dominica
Basic Education Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingen
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   Total
A. Strengthening Management and panning
Al. Senior Management                                      252      37      8       5       5    309
A2. Planning and Development                               211      89     15      1'       9    338
A3. Project Management                                     438      19     22      18      18    514
Subtotal A. Strengthening Management and Planning            900    146      46      34      33   1,159
B. Qualitative Improvement
Bl. School Supervision                                     110      49    258      19      1S    454
B2. Testing and Measurement                                279      77     65      18      19    457
B3. FEucational Materials                                  382      83     67      20      24    558
B4. Curriculum Development                                 220    105      58       8      13    403
B5. Teacher Training                                        61      63     s6      45      33    268
B6. School Library system                                  327    250      43      16       7    643
Subtotal B. Qualitative Improvemnent                        1,360    626    556    127    113   2,782
C. Expansion and Conservation of School Place
Cl. New Secondary Schools                                  356   1,732      7       7       7   2,109
C2. Expansion of Secondary Schools                           -       -     23   1,028       -   1,051
C3. Renovation of Schools                                  121    175    179    180    184    840
Subtotal C. Expansion and Conservation of School Places      477   1,907    208   1,215    191   4,000
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         2,737   2,680    810   1,376    337   7,940
78



Annex 6
TablelD
Dominica
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
C. Expansion and Conseration
A. Strengthening Management and                                                                              of School Places
Planing                                         B. Qualitative Improvement                           C2.
A2.                                                                             B6.             Expansdon
Planing       A3.                   B2. Testing     B3.         B4.       R5.   School Cl. New        of        C3.
Al. Senior     and        Project    81. School    and    Educations Curriculum  Teacher Librar  econdar  econdar  enovatbon
Managemen Developmen  anagement Supervision  easuremen  Materials  evelopmen Training system   Schools  Schools of Schools Total
Investment Costs
Ci  Work,
Construcon of Office Space                       155          74         156          232          113          98         100        -    167          -         -          -   1,097
Constiucon and Expansion of Schools                            -            -                  -           -           -                      -     1,661      832               2,483
Renov./Repair of Schools                           -                       -            -            -                       -        -       -         -         -       634    634
Subtotal Civil Works                               155          74         156          232          113          96         100              167     1.651      832        634   4214
Goods
Equipment and Furiture
Conmpuzs Printers and Software                  la          25          90             -          43          34          19       12       3         -                         244
OdberEquipment                                   4           4          11           23           45          11           3       14       4       178       70           -    363
Vehicles                                         -                                                                         - -  -  28     157                   -               185
Furnitue                                         7           8          13           21           12          23          13        -      14       82        35         69     297
Subttal Equipment and Furniture                   26          37         114           44          128          69          34       26    178       258       104         69   1.088
Dooks&Educat.Materials                            6            6           6           24            6         16e          3       12     S6          -         -               404
Suppties and Miscell.                             12          25          37           32           35          66          15       32      20                                   276
Subtotal Goodh                                      44          66         157          100          186         302         133       70    295       256       104        6s   1,780
Technical Asiance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                             16           8          16           24           12          10          10        -      20       172       87         66    442
Experts                                          58           58         134             -          59           9-                           -         -         -        s9    428
Felouwships                                       21         102          27           59           59          59         119       90    138                    -          -    675
Trnig                                              -            -           -           19          14           9          20       90       6         -         -          -    157
Studies                                           12          21          12           11           13          11          11       11      6          -        23        11    143
Subtotal Techncal Aubtance                         10C         186         169           114         156         149         161      191    169        172       109        137   1.846
Tal Investment Coda                                  307         331         503          446          439         549         394      261    632      2,082     1046        640   7.,29
Recurreat Cosb
Mahdemane
Equipment                                          2           8          11            8           18           7           9       7       11        27         5          -    111
Toal Recurrent Cosb                                    2           6           11            8          16           7           9        7      11        27         6          -    111
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  309          336         514          454          457         556         403     266    643       2,109     1.061       840   7,940
Taxes                                               30           22         49            23          26          25          10        -      17       165        83         78    528
Foreign Exchange                                   234          275        408           349         371         473         336      207    55f      1.548       764        598   6,119
79



Annex 6
Table 2A
Dominica
Basic Education Project
Components by Financiers
(USS)
IBRD/IDA        The Government           Total                        Local (Exd. Duties &
Amount    %        Amount    %         Amount    %    For. Exch.   Taxes)          Taxes
A. Strengthening Management and Planning
Al. Senior Management                                        234,782    76.1     73,789    23.9    308,571      3.9    233,808       44,763    30,001
A2. Planning and Developmcnt                                 274,551    81.6     61,892    18.4    336,444      4.2    275,050       39,487    21,907
A3. Project Management                                       407,367    79.3    106,565    20.7    513,932      6.5    408,284       56,475    49,173
Subtotal A. Strengthening Management and Planning              916,700    79.1    242,246    20.9   1,158,946    14.6    917,141      140,724   101,081
B. Qualitative Improvement
Bi. School Supervision                                       350,450    77.2    103,690    22.8    454,140      5.7    349,479       81.429    23,233
B2. Testing and Measurement                                  366,543    80.1     90,929    19.9    457,472      5.8    371,471       59,838    26,163
B3. Educational Materials                                    479,642    86.3     76,138    13.7    555,781      7.0    472,792       58,366    24,633
B4. Curriculum Development                                   336,218    83.4     67,076    16.6    403,294      5.1     336,479       56,769    10,045
B5. Teacher Training                                         204,209    76.3     63,524    23.7    267,733      3.4    206,578       61,155         -
B6. School Library system                                    557,487    86.7     85,746    13.3    643,233      8.1    554,837       71,666    16,730
Subtotal B. Qualtative Improvement                           2,294,550    82.5    487,103    17.5   2,781,653    35.0   2,291,635     389,213   100,805
C. Expansion and Conservation of School Places
Cl. New Secondary Schools                                  1,550,355    73.5    558,862    26.5   2,109,216    26.6   1,548,012     396,092   165,112
C2. Expansion of Secondary Schools                           768,552    73.1    282,115    26.9   1,050,666    13.2    763,508       203,933    83,225
C3. Renovation of Schools                                    610,334    72.7    229,310    27.3    839,644    10.6    598,316        163,078    78,250
Subtotal C. Expansion and Conservation of School Places      2,929,241    73.2   1,070,286    26.8   3,999,527    50.4   2,909,836     763,104   326,588
Totad Disbursement                                            6,140,491    77.3   1,799,635    22.7   7,940,126   100.0   6,118,611   1,293,041   528,473
80



Annex 6
Table 2B
Dominica
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$)
IBRD/IDA         The Govermment            Total                        Local (Excl. Duties &
Amount       %      Amount       %      Amount       %    For. Exch.   Taxes)         Taxes
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Construction of Office Space                    767,761    70.0     329,040    30.0   1,096,801    13.8    767,761        219,360   109,680
Construction and Expansion of Schools          1,738,363    70.0    745,013    30.0   2,483,375    31.3   1,738,363       496,675   248,338
Renov./Repair of Schools                        443,636    70.0     190,130    30.0      633,766     8.0    443,636       126,753    63,377
Subtotal Civil Works                             2,949,759    70.0   1,264,183    30.0   4,213,942    53.1   2,949,759      842,788   421,394
Goods
Equiipment and Furniture
Computers, Printers and Software              237,675    97.5       6,094      2.5     243,770     3.1     231,581       12,188         -
Other Equipment                               354,236    97.5       9,083      2.5     363,319     4.6     345,153       18,166         -
Vehicles                                      179,920    97.5       4,613     2.5      184,534     2.3     175,307        9,227         -
Furniture                                     244,664    82.5      51,898    17.5      296,562     3.7     192,765      103,797         -
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture               1,016,495    93.4     71,689      6.6   1,088,184    13.7     944,806      143,378         -
Books&Educat.Materials                          394,308    97.5       10,110     2.5     404,419     5.1     384,198       20,221         -
Supplies and Miscell.                           269,351    97.5       6,906     2.5      276,258     3.5     262,445       13,813         -
Subtotal Goods                                   1,680,155    95.0     88,706      5.0   1,768,860    22.3   1,591,449      177,412         -
Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                           398,223    90.0      44,247    10.0      442,470     5.6     398,223       44,247         -
Experts                                         321,238    75.0      107,079    25.0     428,317     5.4     321,238            -   107,079
Fellowships                                     640,799    95.0      33,726      5.0     674,525     8.5     640,799       33,726         -
Training                                         78,587    50.0      78,587    50.0      157,174     2.0      78,587       78,587         -
Studies                                          71,730    50.0      71,730    50.0      143,461     1.8      71,730       71,730         -
Subtotal Technical Assistance                    1,510,577    81.8    335,370    18.2   1,845,947    23.2   1,510,577       228,290   107,079
Total Investment Costs                             6,140,491    78.4   1,688,258    21.6   7,828,749    98.6   6,051,785     1,248,490   528,473
Recurrent Costs
Maintenance
Equipment                                             -       -      111,377   100.0     111,377     1.4      66,826       44,551         -
Total Recurrent Costs                                     -       -      111,377   100.0     111,377     4.4      66,826       44,551         -
Total Disbunrwmnt                                  6,140,491    77.3   1,799,635    22.7   7,940,126   100.0   6,118,611     1,293,041   528,473
81



Annex 6 Appendix: Estimated Recurrent Costs
DOMINICA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Estimate of Recurrent Costs Impact Generated by the Project
(excluding Debt service)
1.    Incremental annual recurrent costs would be generated by the project by the year 2000 in regard to:
(a)   new positions in the MOE Establishment including the library service and related travel and office and
general expenses;
(b)   increased allowances for materials and supplies and for operations and maintenance in primary and
secondary schools;
(c)   additional costs of maintaining the equipment and furniture supplied under the project,
(d)   the costs related to additional 735 secondary school places provided by the project comprising (i) teacher
salaries; (ii) non-teacher salaries; and (iii) non-salaries expenditure
(e)   cost of maintenance of the new office buildings ( the DEO office in Castle Bruce, MOE building and
Library building in Portsmouth); and
(f)   cost of supplies for the expanded SLS.
2.    The Appendix to Annex 3 sets out the recurrent cost implications of the adjustment of teacher to student
ratios and the transfer of savings to other purposes. As Table 4 of that Appendix shows, items listed in
paragmaph I above that are accommodated within the anticipated savings are: (a); (b);(d)(i);(d)(iii)
3.    Costs estimated for the items that have not been covered by the savings are as follows:
(1) non-teaching salaries at Castle Bruce Secondary -EC$48,000 and
(2) maintenance of new office and library equipment and furniture - EC$ 125,000
(3) maintenance of new office and library buildings - EC$270,000; and
(4) supplies for operating the expansion to School Library Service - EC$75,000
This total of EC$518,000 is offset by the excess of savings (EC$663,959 rising to $ 1,000,000) shown in Table 4
of the Appendix to Annex 3.
4.    Consequently, no net incremental recurrent cost is anticipated as a result of the project and the
adjustment program. As table 5 of the appendix to annex 3 shows, the MOE budget is expected to rise over the
project implementation period at a rate slower than that of the expected increase in the nationai budget and these
increases in the MOE budget are not attributable to the project.
82



Project Implementation                        Annex 7
Table 1
CYS5               CYS6                            CY97                            cY9s                           cYss                            cYoO
O N D J F  A  J J A S O N D J F  A  I J A S O N D J F  A  J J A S O N D J F  A  J J A S O N D J F  A  J J A S O N
lvil Works
(a) Casde Bruce School (new)                                        d d i I i  b ba a c c c c c c c c cccc c c g g g g g g
(b) Ponsmouth School (extensioa)                                                                                                              d  d d i i i b b a a c c c c c c c c c g g gg                 Bgg
(c) MOE Offices + Library in Portsmoulh                             d d i i b b a c c cc  c c  c g g g ggg
(d) DEO Office in Castle Bruce                                                                      d d i i b bacc c c c c c g g   g g  g  g
(e) Re0v./Rcpair of Schoolsd dd  i i b a a c cc c                                                                     d d i i b a a c c c c    d d i i b a a c c c c    d d  i i b a a c c c c    d d i i b a a
Fornltare/Equipment/Supplies
(a) PMU                                                        I       ayn
(b) Other MOE (incl.vchicles) + SLS in Portsmouth              I I    i i b b    a a             y n
(c) DEO Office - Casde Bruce                                                                   I I    i i b b    a a          y y n
(c) Catle Bruce Sec.                                                  l                i i i b bb    a a              y y n
(d) Portsmouth Sec.                                                                                                                           I I I        i i        b b       a    y y n
(e) Renovated Schools                                                               d d i i b a a             y ndd       i i b a a           y n d d i i b a a               y n d d h  i b a a             y n d d i i b a a
(f)School Suppies         a: School Kits                            I I i i b a    y y              I I i i b a    y y
b Books and Supplies                     I I i i b a    y y
(g) Refrence Materials for MOE                                         I I i i b b a a y y
aperts
(a) Managementm Planning (202sm each)                                  r r o o                           o o
(b) General pubtishing and Educational testing (202sm each)                                      r r r 0 0                               0 0
(c)ProjectManagement (I6sm)                                       r r r o D o o o o
(d) Procurement (102sm)                                           r r r o o
FeLowahipa
(a) Senior managers                                               p p p o o    0 0
(b) PMU                                                                0    00    00 
(c) Library Chief                                                           o
(d) Stwtg to      12 mouths Finac. Analysl (I); Statistician (I);           5 5 p p p          o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Planner(l), Curriculum Spec.(2). School Supervisor (1),
Tetsug Spec.(l), Art Editing (1),Teacher Trainer (1).
Library Technician (I)
(d) Stgk  397 012 months:                                                                                    5  p pp p             o  o0o o o0o oo o oo o
Curricudum Spec.(2). School Supervisor (1), Testing Spec.(l).
General Editing (1).Teacher Trainer (I), Library Technician (I)
(e)Sbrtlrdginll12worths Teachertrainer(I)                                                                                                    s  ppp  p        o     o  o0o o o o oo oo o
(flSt)  g m % *3 years: Lbrarian (I 0 3 sy)                                  a s p p p         no  o 0 0 0 0 0 0 o0           00 o 0  0  0 0 0 0 o      0     00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Tra;ig                                                                      x x    xx                                  xx                             xxx                            x xx                            x x x
Stx1dla                                           _         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x    x  x.  x  x x x x x I x x x a x x x x x I x x x x x a. xx x x x x x I x x a1
KEY:
a: Award of Contract                                             n: Installation of equipment
b: Did Analysis                                                   o: On the job or Fellowshipa
c: Construction                                                  p: Placement of fellows
d: Architectural Design                                           r: Recruitment of experts
g: Guaranty/Liability period                                      s: Selection of fellows
Invitation to bid                                                 x: Conduct of s:udy or local training
1: Equipment lint preparation                                     y: delivery of equipmentifurnistre/supplies
83



Project Implementation              Annex 7
Table 2
DOMINICA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Sub Component or Category           No. of    Duration    Purpose
persons   in Months
A. EXPERTS
Management/Administration           1          4           To assist MOE to streamline admin. structure and procedures
Planning                            1         4            To assist MOE in long range sector plan & related studies
Prmject Management                  l          8           To help launch PMU and coordinate project implementation
Procurement                         1         2            Preparing equipment lists etc., packages & tender documents
General Editing                     l         2            To help in launching Educ. Materials Unit and in policy formulation on
textbooks procurement and production
Production of Reading Materials     1         4            To initiate desktop publishing and production tasks
Educational Testing                 1         4            To help set up ETX, reform existing tests, design new tests and establish
groundwork for studies
B. FELLOWSHIPS
Senior Management                   3          4           For study tours & seminars relevant to educational reform.
Economics of Education              I          12          Advanced training in economics of education, operations research and
ftmanial analysis
Planning                            1          12          Advanced training in Educ. Planning (IIEP) and attachment
Statistics                          1          12          Advanced training in Statistics and use of computers (UWI)
Project Management                  3         5            Study tours of comparable PMUs, seminars
The Training of Teachers            3          36          To upgrade TTC tutors in training of teachers, one in each core area
School Supervision                  2         24           Advanced training in school supervisory methods, school management,
and effectiveness; and attachments (UWI)
General Editing                     1          12          Advanced training in editing & publishing: attachment to publishing
house
Art Editing                         1          12          Advanced training in art editing, publishing, illustrating and book
layout; attachment to a publishing house
Educational Testing & Measu-emert    2        24           Advanced training in educational testing and related research;
attachment to CXC
CurTiculum Development              4         48           Advanced training in techniques of curriculum design, research and
supervision and attachment (UWI)
School Library Service (Technician)  2         12           Advance training for library technicians
School Library Service (Librarianship)   1    36           Post graduate training in librarianship
In addition to the brief description of purpose given here, it would be required that each expert train counterparts (and other staff as indicated in tenrs of
reference) and prepare manuals as may be deemed necessary. The retuned fellows would also be required to prepare reports for circulation among their peers
and to conduct seminars for appropriate groups to communicate some of the benefits derived from their training.
84



Project Implementation     Annex 7
Table 3
Dominica
Basic Education Proje
Disbursement Foreca
(US$)
;    w                  ~~~~~~The
Project       i , i wT
Costs        ,i,        By Semester
1      1,368,652          .          261,524
2      1,368,652      *               261,524   1996
3      1,339,803          -           295,484
4      1,339,803                      295,484   1997
5       404,838         a             101,123
6       404,838       a   .           101,123   1998
7       688,209                       188,956
8       688,209                       188,956   1999
9        168,562                       52,730
10      168,562                        52,730   2000
Total    7,940,126- 6,140,491          1,799,635
(*) Govermment financing equals US$1.3 million net of taxes
85



Project Implementation       Annex 7
Table 4
DOMINICA
Basic Education Reform Project
Suggested allocation of credit and Loan Proceeds
Credit      Loan          Disbursement
SDRs (000) (*) USS (000)       Percentage
1. Civil Works
Construction and Expansion and Prof. Fees (**    860.0    1,294.0         72% of total costs
Renov./Repair of Schools and Prof. Fees          130.0      193.0         72% of total costs
2 Goods
100% of foreign
expenditure and 50% of
Equipment, Educational Material, Books and F    530.0      800.0          local expenditure
3 Consultants' Services                            100.0      153.0 75% of eligible expenditure
4 IFellowships                                     200.0      305.0 95% of eligible expenditure
5 Studies and local training                        50.0       72.5 50% of eligible expenditure
Unallocated                                        230.0      252.5
Total                                            2,100.0    3,070.0
(*) US$/SDR = 1.50374
**) Construction of a new secondary school in Castle Bruce, expansion of an existing secondary school in
construction of one District education Office in Castle Bruce, Office space for MOE new management,
School Library Service center in Porthsmouth.
86



Annex 7
Table 5
Monitoring Indicators
DOMINICA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
Monitoring and evaluation (M & E) will include both the achievement of specific targets and objectives
(mainly monitoring) and the realization of results or outcomes (more generally, evaluation). As there are no
precise indicators or benchmarks of quality and institutional development, imperfect and subjective indicators
will need to be used.
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS
Significant Measure of Achievement
Actual achievement of
Expected      completion (as % of
Project Component or Item    Indicators                                  Overall target  achievement   expected achievement where
at this point    possible)
Expert Services            Field of Specialization: e.gy. EMr. Mgt
No. of expert months.                        e.g 6          e.g 4          e.g  2 (33%)
Conduct of work.                             1000/%         70%            e.g 35%
Fellowships or Study tours    Field of Specialization: e.g. Cuff, Dev.
No. to be awarded;                           4              2              2 (100%)
Months of study abroad;                      43             10             10 (1000/%)
No. of recipients completed training         4              1
No. returned to job                          4              1
Local training             Field of Training:_
Seminars/workshops intended: (a)...
(h) ...
No. of participants envisaged: (a)...
(b)...
No. cf counterparts trained by experts
Studies                    List of Agreed studies:
EPU: (i) Topic:_
a. Terms of reference                  100%           100%          100%
b. Mobilization of resources (staff etc.)  100%       1001%         75%
c. Conduct of work                     100%          60%            etc.
d. Draft Report                        etc.
e. Final Report
f. Adoption of recommendations         100%          -
g.Impiementation of recommendations    100%
(ii) Topic:__
(iii)....
PMU: (i)
etc.***
Adjustment Program         1. Budget Figures:
a. Ratios of non-salary to salary expenditure:  e.g
(i) Primary Schools                    9:91           6:94           5:95 (83.3%)
(ii) Secondary Schools                 11:89          7:93           6:94 (85.7%)
b. Percentange Increase in
Administrative budget (%/6)                   40            32             25 (78%)
2. Teacher to student ratios:
(a) Primary                            1:30           1:28           1:27.3 (97.5%/6)
(b) Secondary                          1:25           1:22           1:21.5 (97.7%)
87



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS (Cont.)
Institutional Strengthening    Unit (EPU, PMU, ETX etc.)                   Summary of    Expected        Summarv of Achievement
Objectives &    achievement
Targets        at this point
a. Establishment of Posts              7               7              7 (100%)
b. Filling of Posts                    7               6              6(100%)
c. Training of Staff                   100%            50%)t,         60%
d. Adoption of Work Program             100%           1 00%,         100%
e. Execution of Work Program            100%           40%            35%
PMU
a. Establishment of Posts
b. Filling of Posts
c. Training of Staff
d. Adoption of Work Program
e. Execution of Work Program
a. Establishment of Posts
b. Filling of Posts
c. Training of Staff
d. Adoption of Work Program
e. Execution of Work Program
88



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS (Cont.)
Hardware
Items                      Originally scheduled    % of completion (by    Acblal achievement (as %   Conmments
Dates                  value/time allowed)     of overall volume or value)
originally schedulcd to   at the time of this date
be completed as of this
date
Civil Works:
a) MOE Office Building
(i) From start of design to
From start of design to
cotract signing (% of time)
(ii) from contract signing
to handover (% of value)
b) Castle Bruce Secondary
(i) From start of design to
contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) from contract signing
to handover (% of value)
c) Porstmouth Secondary
(i) From start of design to
contract signing (%/ of time)
(ii) from contract signing
to handover (% of value)
d) DEO Office Building
(i) From start of design to
contract signing (% of time)
(ii) from contract signing
to handover (% of value)
e) Schools Library Centers
(i) From start of design to
contract signing (% of time)
(ii) from contract signing
to handover (% of value)
Designs -> Bid invitation-> Bid Analysys --> Award of Contract
contract signing -> Construction -> Handover
89



Annex 7
SECTION 1. IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS (Cont.)
Original Schedule for Design to Handover        Achievement as of this      Comments
Rehabilitation of Schools:                                                  monitoring
School I (nam.e)        e.g Jan 1996 - May 1996                          On schedule (100% of
School 2 (name)         --                                              target)                      e.g. excessive rain
School 3 (nanc)         --e.g March -Sept 1997                           Delayed (1 00/o of target)
School 4 ()
School 5(--)
90



Annex 7
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS (Cont.)
Furniture, Equipment,          Originaly Scheduled        %  of completion (by       Actual achievement (as %        Comments
Supplies:                      Dates                      value/time allowed)        of overall volume or value)
originally schedued to    at of this date
be completed as of this
date
a) Office equipnzent
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of value)
b) Offlcefurmiture
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of vaiue)
c) School Equipment
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of value)
d) School Furniture
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
dzlivery and installation (%
of vaiue)
e) Vehicles
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and ins.allation (%
of value)
f) Computers and related
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
g) Textbooks
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of value)
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
91



Annex 7
...........I.................................. .................................I...........................I........................... .... ...............................................................................................................
SECTION 1.  IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING INDICATORS (Cont)
h) Kitsfor Schools
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of value)
i) Library Equipment
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (%0 of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of value)
i) Library Furniture
(i) From list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
time)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
of value)
k) Other
(i) From  list preparation to
Contract signing (% of
tine)
(ii) From signing to
delivery and installation (%
92



Annex 7
SECTION 2. COST MONITORING
Component/Item                                  Appraisal Cost Estimate    Latest Revised   Actual Cost for    Reasons for Change
Cost Estimate     completed Item     in Cost or Cost
(date of revision)                  Estimate
(a) CIVIL WORKS:
i. MOE OFFICES
ii. Castle Bruce Secondary
iii. Portsmouth Secondary
iv. DEO Office Building
v. Schools Libray Center
vi. Rehabilitation Program
(summary from latest update of list)
(b) CONSULTANT PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
(for civil works)
(c) EQUIPMENT
i. Office
ii. School
iii. Library
iv Other
(d) SUPPLIES & MATERIALS
i. Office
ii. School
iii Library
vi. Other
(e) COMPUTERS & RELATED SOFTWARE
(f) TEXTBOOKS
(g) FURNITURE
(h) FELLOWSHIPS
(i) EXPERT SERVICES
(j) STUDIES (Including Consultants used)
(k) LOCAL TRAINING
(I) REFERENCE LITERATURE
93



Annex 7
SECTION 3: EVALUATION ISSUES AND INDICATORS
Unit or Activity               Nature of Expected Outcomes                Indications of Impact/Benefit
Senior Management: Financial    Incorporation of financial analysis into the  Value of studies done and their impact on policy at the macro and
Analysis                       operations of MOE                          micro sector levels;
Improvement of budget format so as to facilitate tracking of
expenditure and allocations by level, school, category etc.
Quality of analytical work.
Policy formulation            More systematic way of preparing for policy    Evidence of more active tackling of key policy issues with emphasis
decisions                                 on information, analysis & consultation
Planning & Statistics         Long Range Plan for the Sector             Extent of promotion of national discussion and debate on education;
Comprehensiveness of plan and integration of objectives into macro
economic development priorities;
Responsiveness of planning to matters of cost effectiveness, equity and
relevance to national needs.
Acceptance of planning as an institutionalized necessity;
Cooperation with OECS in development policy and plans.
Statistical Data Base covering students
teachers schools, MOE staff, expenditure,  Utilization and dissemination of data,
etc.                                      Comprehensiveness of coverage,
Participation of unit in research in MOE,
Relationship with extemal bodies (OECS, Central Statistical Office &
other Gov't statistical units, etc.)
Project Management            Successful implementation of the project;  Evidence of capacity to implement and evaluate projects efficiently;
Success in maintaining school buildings;  Views of principals on the effectiveness of delivery of goods and
works;
Improved procurement and distribution of
supplies to the schools.                  Improvement in the achievement of development program objectives.
Educational Testing &         New and revised Tests;                     Use of test results in design of new tests, research, reading materials,
Measurement                    item banks;                               school supervision strategies, syllabus and curriculum development,
research;                                 teacher training.
norms & standards;
analysis and dissemination of test results.  Evidence of increased capacity in testing and related work.
Teacher training              Increase in numbers of teachers trained on an   Evidence of actual improvement in methods of teaching as indicated in
inservice basis;                          use of materials, focus on problem solving, test and examination
Improved average qualifications of teachers;   results.
Reduced attrition of teachers;            Evidence of increased teacher training capacity.
Curriculum Development &      Substantial progress in renewal of syllabi and   Improved academic performance and evidence of impact on lifestyles
Supervision                    curricula;                                (health, safety, social conscience).
Improved inter-grade and inter-cycle
coordination of curricula and syllabi.    Evidence of greater institutionalized capacity in curriculum design,
Greater clarity of objectives and the required   research and supervision.
teaching strategy;
Increased emphasis on local examples and
local setting where appropriate and on
problem solving and reflection demanded of
students.
Educational Materials         Volume and range of output of new,         Evidence of capacity to design, prepare and produce materials.
Procurement and Production     supplementary and other materials.         Evidence of use of materials produced;
Improvements in policies and procedures   Evidence of user feedback on the quality and value of materials.
relative to procurement of educational    Evidence of use of feedback in the revision of materials.
reading materials.
Schools Library Services       More intensive service too schools; training    Comparisons of performance of affected primary schools in CEE Before
of teachers in use of library in teaching and    and after. Seminars conducted and participant evaluations of seminars.
in organizing collections.               Follow-up reports and assessments by the SLS of teachers' work on the
collections
94



Annex 7
SECTION 4
Key Project Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators                                                              End-of Project
Mid-Project Targets        Targets
laseline
1.Strenethenin2 Plannin2 and Manazement                                         .
Quantitv Indicators
New MOE's Offices                                             0%                   100%                  100%
Salary/non salary expenditure adjustment program
Teacher to Student ratios:
(i) Primary Schools                    1:21.6               1:24.5                 1:26
(ii) Secondary Schools                 1:16.6               1:18.6                 1:20
EC$ spent per student
per year              (i) Primary Schools
Supplies/Materials                   9.5                   15                    37
Operations/Maintenance              10.9                   15                    32
(ii) Secondary Schools
Supplies/Materials                   17                    30                    49
Operations/Maintenance               7.6                  250                    40
Behavioral Indicators (observed through regular                                 See Section 3
supervision visits)
2. ImvrovinR the Oualitv of Basic Education
Quality Indicators
Common Entrance Examination                              1995 Test Scores    Plus 10%             Plus 20%
Quantity Indicators
New School Library Building in Portsmouth                      0                   100%                  100%
Availability of Appropriate Textbooks                    70% of primary        85% of primary        95% of primary
school population    school population     school population
Professionally trained teachers
in Primary Schools                                            37 %                  47%                   60%
Availability of Instructional Materials and Equipment      Very limited          Improved               Improved
(observed through regular supervision visits)
Behavioral Indicators (observed through regular
supervision visits)
Teachers' knowledge of appropriate curriculum and design     Limited             Improved               Improved
of lessons plans at each stage of child development.
Implementation of High Quality and Varied Teaching and     Traditional      Survey indicates      Survey indicates
Assessmenat Methods                                        Chalk/Board      positive change in at   positive change in at
I__ _ _ _  Techniques  least 30% of schools   least 60% of schools
3 . Expandina Access to Schools                                             __________   _________
Quantity Indicators
New School Buildings
Extensions to Secondary Schools                               0                     1                     1
New Secondary Schools                                         0                     1                     1
Secondary School EnroDlment                            54% of the 12-16 age  58% of the 12-16 age   64% of the 12-16 age
cohort ( net of      cohort ( net of       cohort ( net of
repeaters older than   repeaters older than    repeaters older than
16 years of age)     16 years of age)      16 years of age)
95






IBRD 27486
6125s                            61 20'                            ,                      o,,dK MiLtE, 'UIK)
H.1E 81     NECAN    uLs*  dU)   r       E,h
REPtBLIC                  SI   i,,,E,
Rxco (RiSE  5obq {Neebl2   ANTIGU.A -d ARBUDA
Capucin  ,X,~~~~La Haut                                                                               STKTssd ivs        udeo;eir
ST KITTS -,d NELIIS - G-od.o-P" 'F,)
EXPANSION OF THE PORTSMOUTH                                                                M.rIUK- '-'(FI'
I- SECONDARY SCHOOL (PORTSMOUTH)                                                      ST VlINENTL S   BUCAI s
NEW SCHOOL LIBRARY CENTER (PORTSMOUTH)                 A,b.          IN.,0GREFNADA
COL i'"                                'RINI ADAId
15'35'-                                          =BAEGD
-15'35 ';  ; 15 35- lx V E N E Z U E L A
Portsmoh                                                                             _
6P115'                           61'10'
MELVILLE HALL AIRPORT                                  D O  M  I N  I C A
M             -rigot   BASIC EDUCATION
. A-N D R E W   )REFORM PROJECT
(_               Hatton Garden                0       2       4      6       8      10
KILOMETERS
15,30'
NEW SECONDARY SCHOOL (CASTLE BRL!(
p tf  4 T  .  J  O   S  t  P  H  F   _   - -NEW DEO S OFFICE (CASTLE BRULCE)
*S *ooli-sbur                    ,,                                    Castle Brue
15-25-
1 5'25'
St. Josephg J"                       - /                 JA
Layou9- /'Bois Diable                                                                        *    PROJECT LOCATIONS
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:
ag   s b   9>Rosolie  > >4000
3000-4000
u5                             Trv->iW U A v, /- ,sS w 2000-3000
1000-2000
<1000
MAIN ROADS
15'20'                             C          onsfield                                                                  0     SELECTED CITIES
AND TOWNS
\ NATIONAL CAPITAL
ne P~~~p  r-- NI,_ ~~~~RIVERS
MOE'S OFFICE BUILDING (ROSEAU), <>n   Prpe                                ---                ;RVR
ROSEA                                  J           q-                                AIRPORT
> >_5Gw7L > \ Delicest PARISH BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES (INSET)
Pointe Michel                                            Petite Savane
-15lS-SE   \/15'15'
1 5B1e5'
Soufrier   ST.
The boundaries, colors, denominations                      ARK
and any other information shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of      Scotts Head             '
The World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
61'25'                            61'20                             61'15                              61 10
NOVEMBER 1995









J~~~~~~~~~~~~" V -, F 7 . 1 -( LL           
%_j  v  !_t   v  '      -   -1   ]   .     T l   ' b-   l
tilL: V 1N I



