Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24199
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39690; IDA-28030)
ONA
LOAN and CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.14 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
DOMINICA
FOR A
DM- BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
05/17/2002
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar
EC 1 = US$ 0.37
US$ 1 = EC 2.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACEO           Assistant Chief Education Officer
BERP           Basic Education Reform Project
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDU            Curriculum Development Unit
CEE            Common Entrance Examination
CEO            Chief Education Officer
CXC            Caribbean Examinations Council
DEO            District Education Office
DFID           Department of International Development
EMIS           Education Management Information System
EPU            Education Planning and Statistics Unit
EU             European Union
EXT            Education Testing and Examinations Unit
GCE            General Certificate of Education
GOCD           Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica
IBRD           Intemational Bank For Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
JSP            Junior Secondary Program
MOESYA         Ministry of Education, Sports and Youth Affairs
MPU            Materials Production Unit
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
OAS            Organization of American States
OECS           Organization of the Eastern Caribbean States
PHRD           Policy and Human Resource Development (Japanese Government Grant)
PMU            Project Management Unit
PS             Permanent Secretary
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SEO            Senior Education Officer
TTC            Teacher Training College
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:   Ana Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Cynthia Hobbs



FOR OFFICIAL USE, ONLY
DOMINICA
DM- BASIC EDUCATION REF
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              26
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                   27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






economic transition in Dominica. The BERP supported the first stage of a substantial reform of the basic
education sector, aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the education system, and at
enhancing equity of access to educational opporunities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$7.9 million equivalent (US$3.1 million IBRD loan and
SDR2.10 million IDA credit or US$3 million equivalent and a Government's contribution of US$1.8
million equivalent). The BERP was structured into three main components:
I - Strengthening Management and Planning (US$1.1 million, or 14% of total project costs). The
objective of this component was to improve the organization, procedures, and functions of the Ministry of
Education, Sports and Youth Affairs (MOESYA), in order to increase its efficiency to guide and manage
the national education system. The component financed consulting services, fellowships and studies in the
areas of project management, education reform, educational planning and education management (including
statistics, economics, financial analysis and operational research). This component also financed civil
works to expand office space, office furniture and supplies.
2 - Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education - (US$2.8million, or 35% of total project costs). This
component aimed to increase access to secondary education and improve quality of primary education,
particularly in core subjects. Activities financed included fellowships, expert services, studies and local
trainings in six specific and interrelated areas: (i) school supervision; (ii) educational testing and
measurement; (iii) educational materials development; (iv) curriculum development; (v) teacher training;
and (vi) school library service. In addition, this component financed civil works, furniture and equipment to
create a library in the Portsmouth area, and a vehicle to establish a mobile library service.
3 - Expansion of Access - (US$4.0 million, or 51% of total project costs). This component aimed to
expand access to secondary education in under-served districts through the construction of a new secondary
school in Castlebruce and rehabilitation of selected schools with serious infrastructure deficiencies. The
component financed civil works, furniture and equipment, equipment maintenance and supplies.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality of the project at entry can be considered satisfactory.
The project aimed to help the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica (GOCD) to address critical
education development needs by accelerating the expansion of secondary school places and enhancing
primary students' basic skills in preparation for further education and employment. The project was
diligently prepared during 1993-1995 and benefited from close consultation with the Secretariat of the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) and financing from a Policy and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) grant from the Government of Japan. Project design incorporated inputs provided
-2 -



Project ID: P006969                                      Project Name: DM- BASIC EDUCATION REF
Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs                               TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: DM- BASIC EDUCATION REF                       L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39690;
IDA-28030
Country/Department: DOMINICA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/23/94                               Effective: 06/17/96          10/28/96
Appraisal:  10/30/95                                 MTR: 05/01/98             05/25/98
Approval:  12/21/95                               Closing: 06/30/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF ED. (DOMINICA)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                    Paul Isennman
Sector Manager:      Ana Maria Arriagada                       Julian Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:  Cynthia Hobbs                            Karen Lashman
ICR Primary Author:  Massimiliano Paolucci; Maria R.
Puech Fernandez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Doninica Basic Education Reform Project (BERP) was designed with the overall objective of
accelerating human resource development to ensure that the requisite manpower exists to attain the desired



through extensive consultations with government officials, teachers, unions and civil society.
The project design reflects the priorities indicated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) prepared for
the OECS countries in 1995. The CAS targeted human development, and particularly education, as a
priority intervention leading to the achievement of four main objectives: (i) fostering economic transition
from traditional agriculture to more competitive economic activities; (ii) improving efficiency in the
allocation and use of public resources at national and regional levels; (iii) promoting human capital
development and poverty alleviation; and (iv) promoting sustainable natural resource management. The
project objectives were also in line with the recommendations from the OECS Education Reform Strategy
(1993) and from the World Bank report "Access, Quality, and Efficiency in Caribbean Education: A
Regional Study" (1992), both of which emphasized improved quality and expanded coverage of basic
education as prerequisites for the socioeconomic development in the country.
Though project design was appropriate, it was challenging for a Ministry with no previous experience in
implemention of a Bank-financed project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall ICR Ratine: Satisfactory
The BERP achieved most of its immediate objectives, in particular those related to improvements in the
quality of primary education and increase of access to secondary education. However, there are not enough
elements to assess the long term impact of the BERP on the quality and adequateness of the local
manpower with regards to the process of economic transition of the country.
Strengthening management and planning capacity
The project contributed to strengthening the planning and institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Education. It succeeded in creating and staffing four new technical units in the areas of planning, project
management, curriculum development and learning achievement testing, thus enhancing the Ministry's
capacity to deliver quality education services, though it did not achieve a reorganization of the Ministry or
a substantial improvement in the coordination among key units.
Efficiency gains, measured in terms of student/teacher ratios and salary share of the sector budget, were
unevenly achieved. In primary schools, student/teacher ratios remained nearly the same, changing from
1:21.8 in 1994 to 1:21.4 in 2000 or about 18 percent below the target of 1:26. Although the number of
teachers decreased by about 10 percent (from 679 to 602), the number of students decreased by 12 percent
(from 14,796 to 12,885), thus offsetting the positive results associated with the reduction in the number of
teachers.
In secondary schools, student/teacher ratios improved by about 8 percent (from 1:16.6 in 1994 to 1:17.9 in
2000). The improvement was largely due to a 40 percent enrollment expansion (from 4,465 to 6,270
students), while the number of teachers expanded only by 30 percent (from 269 to 350). Further attempts
by the Government to improve student/teacher ratios met with strong opposition from the teachers' union
and lack of consensus on the issue at the Cabinet level.
These less than satisfactory efficiency gains in the management of teachers pose concern regarding the
capacity of the Government to sustain the burden of teachers' salaries in the medium and long run. This is
-3-



particularly worrisome in view of the current deterioration of the economic situation of the country and the
continuous outflow of adult migrants, both of which have a negative impact on fiscal resources.
Improvement of quality of education
The project achieved significant improvements in the quality of basic education as a result of support
provided to strengthen the technical departments of the MOESYA, especially the Curriculum Development
and the Testing and Measuring Units. This was combined with quality enhancing activities at schools,
such as provision of new textbooks, personal computers and educational materials. Quality improvements
are reflected in the 40 percent increase in the number of sixth-grade students who were selected to attend
secondary school, based on the Common Entrance Examination (CEE); the share of selected students
increased from 34.3 percent in 1994 to 76.2 percent in 2000, although the absolute number of students who
sat for the exam decreased during that period (from 2,080 in 1994 to 1,673 in 2000). In addition, there
was an increase in the percentage of primary students who passed five subjects or more on the CXC, which
rose from 40.5 percent in 1997 to 52.9 percent in 1998.
Quality improvements are also reflected in reduction of dropout and repetition rates, particularly in primary
schools. At the primary level, dropout rates declined by about 70 percent (from 0.54 in 1994 to 0.16
percent in 2000) and repetition rates were reduced from 5.4 percent to 3.4 percent from 1996 to 1999.
Improvements at the secondary school level were less striking: dropout rates declined by 28 percent (from
3.9 percent in 1996 to 2.8 percent in 1999) and repetition rates actually increased from 9 to 9.9 percent in
the same period.
The third important quality measure is given by the percentage of teachers that are certified. At primary
schools, the share of certified teachers increased by about 20 percent (from 43.2 percent in 1994 to 63.9
percent in 1999). Nevertheless, at secondary schools, the share of certified teachers declined by almost 5
percent (from 30.7 percent in 1996 to 25.9 percent in 1999).
The education quality indicators suggest that while the project effectively improved quality in primary
schools, there is still room for improvement in secondary schools.
Increase in enrollment in secondarv
Enrollment in secondary schools increased significantly from the school year 1994-95 to the year
2000-2001, reaching an average growth rate of 7.3 percent per year. In 2000, gross enrollment in
secondary education was 88 percent.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I - Strengthening Management and Planning: Satisfactory. (US$ 0.74 million or 10
percent of total project cost). The BERP successfully strengthened the MOESYA's institutional capacity
by: (i) building planning and analytical capacity; (ii) establishing permanent project management capacity;
(iii) initiating the development of an integrated education data system to support sector analysis and policy
making; and (iv) establishing the technical capacity for curriculum development and learning achievement
testing. The project fell short in its efforts to reorganize the MOESYA, to review its legislation and
procedures and to significantly improve efficiency in the management of personnel. Thus, in spite of
considerable advances, problems must still be addressed with respect to sector policy and leadership.
- 4-



The BERP was very successful in supporting the establishment of an Educational Planning Unit (EPI) and
a Project Management Unit (PMU), which are staffed with competent professionals, largely trained
overseas, and working in the same building.
During the project implementation, the EPU produced: (i) an " Education Development Plan for 1999-2005
and Beyond" which provides the goals for the education system in future years; and (ii) a statistical digest,
"Indicators 2000', which includes a thorough analysis of the evolution of quality, efficiency, and access
indicators for the Dominica educational system. This document represents an important policy-making and
budget tool for the MOESYA. The EPU is also playing an important role in the preparation of the.
forthcoming Education Reform Project, in collaboration with the OECS, which will be partly financed by
the World Bank
The PMU represents one of the most successful achievements of the BERP. Through study tours and
continuous on-the-job training, the PMU developed impressive project management capacity, especially in
the areas of procurement and financial management. The PMU's dedicated team is now able to assist the
MOESYA in the implementation of complex sector projects financed by different development institutions.
The team has been a source of guidance and mentoring for other project units in the Caribbean region.
Although the PMU is fully institutionalized within the MOESYA, the current organizational structure of
the Ministry does not favor smooth coordination and creates some hierarchical problems that will need to
be addressed as the education sector reform progresses.
Although the project planned the construction of office space for all new technical units and for some
existing units, construction plans were modified during implementation. The MOESYA, based on budget
considerations, decided to rehabilitate an existing building rather than construct a new one. The building
now houses the PMU, the EPU, and the remaining technical units. Although this arrangement has fostered
better collaboration and integration among the technical units, it is not conducive to fluid and improved
communication with the MOESYA management, as the offices of the Minister and the Permanent Secretary
are located in a separate administrative complex in another part of town.
This component financed a total of 19 fellowships in regional and international institutions. The staff who
benefitted from these fellowships expressed satisfaction with the training. However, because the official
appointment of the fellows did not occur immediately upon the completion of their training, the application
of the newly acquired skills in the MOESYA was delayed.
Component 2 - Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education: Satisfactory - (US$ 2.07 million or 28
percent of total project cost). The BERP successfully supported improvements in the quality of teaching
and learning through: (i) improvement of school supervision; (ii) creation of student achievement testing
and measurement capacity to monitor student and system performance; (iii) strengthened capacity to
design, produce, select, procure and distribute textbooks and educational materials; (iv) curriculum
improvement in core subjects; (v) updating of teacher training methodologies; and (vi) improvements in the
school library service.
*   School Supervision
Two fellows were trained in school supervision and are now committed to increasing school
effectiveness through the continuous assessment of teachers, principals and schools, and the
dissemination among teachers and principals of new concepts and methodologies about the most
appropriate and cost-efficient use of school resources, teachers, funding and physical plant. It is
- 5-



unclear how many teachers have benefitted from the cascade training sessions provided by these
supervisors.
Although planned in the SAR, no civil works or furniture purchases took place for the District
Education Office (DEO) in Castle Bruce due to problems in locating and buying a suitable site at a
reasonable price.
0      Educational Testing and Materials
BERP supported the establishment of an Educational Testing and Examination Unit (EXT). The
EXT is staffed with two professionals who received appropriate training in prestigious overseas
universities. The unit is responsible for administering the CEE and the Junior Secondary Program
(JSP) examinations. Although the SAR intended for the integration of all tests under the new unit,
the administration of external tests, such as the CXC and the General Certificate of Education
(GCE), is done by the Local Registrar Office.
The EXT created the National Assessment Program, which, at present, is limited to a
comprehensive annual diagnostic test of the skills and attitudes for grade 2 students. The results of
these tests are used to prepare in-service training modules for teachers focusing on the deficiencies
detected by the test. The EXT is currently working on the preparation of a similar kind of
diagnostic test for students from grades 4 and 6. The EXT is also carrying out an interesting study
on gender differences in learning achievements. The planned study to establish achievement norms
and standards, school evaluation, and development of curriculum evaluation methodologies was not
carried out due to a lack of agreement on the definition of common norms and desired achievement
standards.
*      Educational Materials Development
The project supported the strengthening of the MOESYA to prepare, produce, and procure
educational materials. A General Editor was trained overseas and hired as MOESYA permanent
staff, although she was not formally appointed for almost two years. Additionally, consulting
services were contracted to carry out a study on Educational Materials and Production, and
Desktop Publishing. As a result, the MOESYA has been able to produce several interesting
publications, such as Core Curriculum Guides for Forms 1-3, and a useful newsletter, "Education
Matters", which is circulated widely among teachers and principals. Furthermore, the MOESYA
has improved its methods of selection of textbooks per subject, appropriate both for their number
and content, as testified by the high quality of textbooks currently in use around the country.
Under this sub-component, the MOESYA provided books to selected primary schools located in
the disadvantaged areas, and in particular, in the Carib territories. The project also financed the
acquisition of basic textbooks for teachers of grades 1-9, in each primary and secondary school, as
well as supplementary educational materials (mostly to support teaching of technical subjects) for
selected secondary schools.
It is important to add, mainly for the implication on the future sustainability of this kind of
initiative, that the GOCD implemented a policy of free provision of textbooks to all primary
schools which was financed through counterpart funds.
- 6-



Curriculum Development
The BERP supported the strengthening of the Curriculum Development Unit (CDU) by-sponsoring
four fellows for training programs at the master's level in Language Arts, Mathematics, Social
Studies and Science. Upon their return, the CDU was formally established and properly equipped,
although, as in other cases, the appointment of returned fellows as permanent staff was delayed.
Due to the retirement of the first CDU director, the unit has been recently placed under the
responsibility of the EXT. While this arrangement has promoted better communications and
integration between two key technical units, it has increased substantially the workload of EXT,
forcing EXT staff to reduce time allocated to technical tasks, including sector studies.
To support curriculum development, the BERP financed local training for teachers and principals
conducted by the returned fellows. This training complemented similar initiatives sponsored by
other projects, such as those funded by the Organization of American States (OAS) and the
Department of International Development (DFID). The provision of training responded to requests
from schools or focused on training needs detected by evaluations made by the DEO and the Senior
Education Officer (SEO). Only a small number of teachers were trained, mostly those from grades
1, 2 and 3, suggesting that the initiative might deserve expansion in the future.
Some preliminary studies on the evaluation of the syllabi and curricula were carried out, although
mostly at the secondary level. Similar efforts at the primary school level were frustrated by the lack
of consensus within MOESYA on the opportunity and scope of a curriculum reform.
This component also financed the acquisition of 30 science kits for primary schools, in lieu of 50,
as planned in the SAR. No kits were bought for math and social science, since they proved to be
too expensive. At present, there is little concrete evidence of the impact of the use of the science
kits on teaching and learning practices, since an assessment has not yet been done.
Teacher Training
As planned in the SAR, three fellows from the Teachers' Training College (JTC) were trained to
improve their skills in design, research and evaluation in Science, Mathematics, and Language
Arts. Additionally, DFID sponsored another fellow for a one-year master's degree in General
Education. Furniture, office equipment, and supplies at the TTC for educational and audio-visual
material were also purchased under the project.
This sub-component also included resources for the financing of in-service training programs
during the summer holidays for approximately 300 teachers on content and teaching
methods/pedagogy. After establishing a fledgling permanent in-service training scheme, the TTC
then strived to guarantee its continuity throughout the years. Teachers selected by schools for
training at the TTC were not always the same, thus reducing the overall impact due to lack of
continuity. The limited impact of this sub-component is also reflected in the low disbursement rate,
which did not reach 43% of the original amount budgeted in the SARP
- 7 -



*       School Library Service
This sub-component financed the construction and furnishing of a new School Library Center in
Portsmouth to serve both the surrounding area and the nearby secondary school district. In
addition, a van was acquired to establish a bookmobile which covers schools in the northern part of
Dominica, thus benefitting the more rural communities. The BERP also financed a three-year
program in library sciences and two additional fellowships in library technology. Preliminary
observations show a marked increase in the use of library resources by local students, as confirmed
by the results of interviews conducted with users, as well as library staff. However, since a
systematic study has not yet been done, it is still early to assess the impact of this sub-component
on the students' performance.
Component 3 - Expansion of Access to Schools: Satisfactory - (US$4.6 million or 62 percent of the
project baseline costs). The BERP succeeded in increasing access to secondary schools and was able to
provide a more equitable distribution of school places at the secondary level among regions. Given the
higher access rate, the BERP was also able to provide considerable improvement in the transition rate
between primary and secondary education. In fact, the SAR transition target of 63% was surpassed by
21% as it reached 76.2 percent in 2000.
Some 1,050 new school places were created under the project, exceeding the original SAR targets. As
planned at appraisal, the BERP financed the construction of a new secondary school in Castle Bruce, where
access was limited, especially for children of Carib descent. During project implementation, 525 new
school places were added and the school was furnished and equipped. In total, 13 new classrooms were
built (7 to replace unsuitable pre-existing classrooms) and a science laboratory and sanitary facilities were
added to the existing Portsmouth Secondary School. At the primary education level, 15 seriously
deteriorated primary schools were rehabilitated. With regard to the design of the Castle Bruce school, some
reservations were voiced as it did not include an area for plenary meetings. Community maintenance
courses are being developed to guarantee the sustainability of the infrastructure investment, and an
established maintenance plan will be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed new loan to support a
follow-on Education Reform project.
The original budget for this component was exceeded by 14 percent. This was due primarily to the fact that
cost estimates made during the preparation of the project were based on preliminary designs and not on
construction design at the chosen site. As a result; the actual cost of the Portsmouth School exceeded the
original estimate by 30 percent.
In spite of the overall success in the implementation of this component, the schools built or rehabilitated
through the project show evident signs of deterioration. This is a situation that calls for immediate
corrective action. Although the project provided training in preventive maintenance of school facilities to
principals and vice-principals, maintenance activities were not, in fact, carried out. In order to ensure the
sustainability of the infrastructure investments, attention should given to: (i) specific appropriation of funds
by the MOESYA to pass to the schools for maintenance; (ii) training in preventive maintenance directed to
school officials, parents and students; and (iii) the establishment of appropriate community-based
organizations to carry out the preventive maintenance plan for each school.
- 8 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include an economic analysis of the project costs and benefits. Nevertheless, the marked
increase in secondary school enrollment and the significant improvements in the quality of primary
education suggest that the project was cost-effective in reaching its development objectives.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The BERP laid the initial foundation for the education reform program and through its support, MOESYA
has built a respected and solid core of professionals whose knowledge and dedication are contributing to
improvements in the education sector and to progress towards the sought reform. However, the context in
which this modernization reform has taken place is still characterized by some inconsistencies that the
Government needs to address.
In the case of the PMU, although staff work in strict cooperation with the Chief Education Officer (CEO),
they do not report to him, as envisaged in the SAR. Instead, they report directly to the Permanent Secretary
(PS), while other MOESYA staff report to the CEO who then reports to the PS. This has created the
impression among MOESYA staff of the existence of two competing, rather than complementary, powers
within the same institution.
The causes of such a distortion are to be found in the incomplete reform of the MOESYA's structure and
functions. As originally planned at the time of project negotiation, two important consulting studies were
funded in order to provide the Ministry with clear and immediately operational proposals to rationalize its
functioning, which reflected the suggestions made in the SAR. In practice, only the Assistant Chief
Education Officer (ACEO) post for School Operations was created; the one for Planning and Development
was not. The two new posts were meant to deconcentrate functions at the CEO level and improve efficiency
and responsiveness, especially to schools, through functional specialization. The studies recommended
establishment of a functional relation between the CEO and the PMU, rather than one of dependency, to
improve the translation of Cabinet policies into administrative decisions and strategies and, subsequently,
into implementation decisions. These proposals were never fully endorsed by the MOESYA, mainly in light
of the frequent reshuffling it went through during the past six years. This made any consolidation of the
organizational chart difficult to envisage. As a result, all technical departments continued to work on the
basis of poorly defined terms of reference and without a clear understanding of the structure and relations
with senior management.
The role of the returning fellows within the MOESYA is another factor of concern. Upon completion of
their studies, mostly at the Masters level, all returning fellows were integrated within the MOESYA,
although their appointments as permanent MOESYA staff were delayed for some time for a combination of
budgetary and bureaucratic reasons. At present, these professionals are still working without clear terms of
reference which creates duplication of tasks, efforts, and resources among and across teams.
It is of utmost importance for the MOESYA to achieve an internal consensus on some basic key decisions
to advance the education sector reform. The Education Act was approved in 1997 and defines the principles
inspiring the Dominican education system, as well as the rights and duties of both the Government and the
beneficiaries. Approved relatively quickly on the basis of the need to comply with the recommendations
-9-



made in the OECS Education Reform Strategy and in the 1996 GOCD Education Strategy Letter, this
important Act was not complemented by any regulation, thus condemning the reform to an uncertain future.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
*   Delays and overruns in the imDlementaton of civU works
Civil works were delayed and cost overruns were incurred, especially in the construction and
rehabilitation of schools. At the time of project preparation, costs were miscalculated and field site
investigations were poorly conducted. Additionally, the BERP was confronted with higher than
expected bids and the loss of IDA credit funds in dollar terms due to the depreciation of the Yen. The
combined effect of both factors not only slowed down the whole procurement process, but it also
induced the GOCD to forego the construction of the new MOESYA's building, opting instead to
rehabilitate an existing building that now houses the PMU and other technical departments of the
MOESYA.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*   The GOCD's commitment to reform the MOESYA
Overall project impact, mainly with respect to the management and planning component, could have
been higher had the GOCD showed more commitment to: (a) appoint a Change Manager to lead the
MOESYA's rationalization efforts; and (b) formalize the imnmediate appointment of returning fellows. In
the latter case, the returning fellows were not formally appointed for a long period of time, and terms of
reference for the different technical and operational units composing the Ministry of Education are yet to
be finalized. Such anomalies have fostered a sense of great uncertainty among those affected. These
issues slowed down, albeit not markedly, the pace of the change process.
* Timely allocation of countermart funds
The GOCD made a remarkable effort to provide timely allocation of counterpart funds for the
implementation of the BERP, especially in the last two years when the country entered a period of
economic recession. However, on some occasions, mainly during FY98, the GOCD was unable to
comply with Art. 3.01(b) of the Credit Agreement that required the Government to maintain a balance in
the Project account equivalent to three months of project expenditures. As a result, some contractors
experienced delayed payments due to insufficient funds in the credit account.
*   Lack of Consensus on the Rationalization of the Teacher - Student Ratio
Although perceived as an important measure to adopt in the reform of the education sector, the
adjustment of the teacher - student ratio to 1:30 at the primary level, and 1:20 at the secondary, was
never achieved, mainly due to lack of consensus within the government and to teacher union opposition.
Interestingly enough, these targets were opposed by both parties on the basis of the same argument, i.e.
the lack of realism, especially when taling into consideration the reality of many remote rural
communities, where the aggregation of several classrooms through relocation of students in hub
-10-



schools would result in higher costs, due to the resulting transportation costs.
* Continuity of PMU staff
The MOESYA's policy to preserve the PMU staff at all levels represented a fundamental factor in
guaranteeing the BERP's satisfactory implementation performance. Throughout the years, the core
group that managed the BERP since inception developed a set of skills they now apply to manage sector
projects financed by other donors as well.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
* Communication within the MOESYA, and with other neovernmental institutions
In the vacuum created by the lack of MOESYA's institutional reorganization, there were times when the
communication was not fluid between the PMU and other MOESYA units involved in project execution.
This left some technical units puzzled about the reasons for some decisions related to project
implementation, while fostering at the same time some degree of antagonism within the MOESYA. The
PMU could have promoted better information sharing. However, the excessive work load, due to the
responsibility for implementation of DFID and European Union (EU) funded projects, did not allow the
PMU to allot much time to this important activity.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Disbursements from IBRD Loan 39690 and IDA Credit 28030 total US$5.73 million equivalent as of April
23, 2002 and US$0.21 million equivalent remain undisbursed and are expected to be cancelled at the final
closing of the accounts. The less than full utilization of loan and credit funds reflect the fact that some
contracts had to be cancelled during the last year of project implementation because providers could not
guarantee the delivery of goods by the closing date of December 31, 2001.
After loan and credit effectiveness in late October 1996, disbursements during the first three years of
project implementation reached 78.8 percent of total credit and loan funds. This indicated remarkable
performance, considering that this was the first Bank-financed education project in Dominica, and
especially excellent with respect to financial management, procurement and availability of counterpart
funds. The relatively slower pace of disbursements during the last two years of project implementation
indicates that most investments have been completed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likelv
It is likely that the project will maintain the achievements generated during its implementation period. The
assessment is based on the following considerations:
* The Government has shown commitment to the project's development objectives throughout project
implementation, despite some mixed signals at times from lack of broad consensus (i.e. adjustments in
teacher/student ratio). The GOCD has expressed its willingness to continue working to deepen the
education sector reform and has requested the collaboration of international institutions in these
endeavors;



*   The policy environment is supportive of the education sector, as shown by the efforts undertaken to
define a long term comprehensive strategy for the sector;
*   The project has built significant local expertise and capacity through the technical assistance provided
under the project. All returning fellows have been appointed and are now working actively in the units
created and/or strengthened through the project to implement the country's education reform;
- The PMU was established and is functioning well. It has coordinated management of several
internationally financed projects simnultaneously and has operated procurement and finance systems
with full accountability and considerable level of expertise. The PMU staff have trained staff in
neighboring OECS countries at the Bank's request.
- The Education Planning and Statistics Unit was also established and personnel were trained in
top tertiary degree programs in the United States and Europe. A national statistics digest was
published last year, and efforts are being made to establish baseline statistics and quantitative and
qualitative indicators to measure student and school performance. This will lay the groundwork
for the future implementation of the Education Management InfoTmation System (EMIS).
- The Testing and Measurement Unit has initiated national assessments for grade two students,
while plans to implement similar tests for grades 4 and 6 are being developed. Additionally,
awareness training has been offered at the school level to improve data collection and validity.
*   The MOESYA units involved in the BERP have moved to the new Education, Science and Technology
Building, financed under the project, and are collaborating to implement the country's education
reform. This has facilitated better day-to-day cooperation among the units.
*   The project brought incentives to stakeholders to support the efforts in the sector: (i) materials are
increasingly more available to teachers, including texts and library resources; (ii) the Curriculum and
Education Materials units have been combined as one, and the General Editor, trained under the BERP,
has contributed to improved quality of texts and educational materials; and (iii) community-managed
maintenance courses are being developed to help preserve the new infrastructure created under the
project.
Some challenges remain ahead to ensure that the project activities realize their full benefit and become
sustainable. As previously indicated, the proposed adjustments in the teacher/student ratios were not
achieved. Thus, the savings planned to offset the increased recurrent cost caused by the project were not
realized by project closing. The GOCD will need to focus on this issue to alleviate pressures on the
national budget. Another factor to affect sustainability is the need to more dramatically improve the
management and institutional effectiveness of the MOEYSA, a sought reform not achieved through the
project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In order to maximize the benefits of the project, the MOESYA would need to:
* Achieve better coordination among its technical units: Although proximity has assisted in improving
collaboration among the MOESYA units, the lack of clarity in the MOESYA structure led to
- 12 -



difficulties in implementing clear policies and fully utilizing human resources trained under the
projects. The MOESYA is currently engaged in restructuring of the Ministry, including the
establishment of roles and responsibilities and the articulation among MOESYA units. This will be a
condition for effectiveness for the proposed new loan to support the Education Reform project.
* Improve students' basic skills: While access has increased, results from the grade two tests have
indicated a need for dramatic measures to improve literacy and numeracy. A new National Literacy
Plan has already been drafted in order to support the efforts in such a direction.
*   Increase quality of teachers' skUls: Statistics show a higher than predicted percentage of uncertified
teachers still working in the classrooms. Traditional training schemes have not worked. Alternative
modalities and improved training in pedagogy and content will have to be explored.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. A multi-disciplinary Bank
team engaged in thorough consultations with government officials, unions members, and civil society
representatives at large. The BERP's design was fully in line with the 1992 World Bank report "Access,
Quality, and Efficiency in Caribbean Education: A Regional Study"; the 1993 OECS Education Reform
Strategy, and the 1995 OECS Country Assistance Strategy. More attention should have been devoted to the
definition of appropriate key performance indicators. Some of those included in the SAR (in particular,
those related to quality and efficiency of education) appear too general and, therefore, difficult to measure,
as well as to link to specific outputs.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the Borrower throughout project implementation. An
appropriate mix of technical skills was guaranteed for all supervision missions, and the dialogue with the
PMU was always open and frank. This helped to adopt swift resolutions when bottlenecks arose, thus
preserving a steady implementation pace. The Bank's favorable response to the GOCD's request to extend
the original closing date by six months allowed the PMU to complete some important project activities that
were still outstanding (such as the purchase of a last stock of books). Finally, the Bank task teams always
compiled all required project documents in a timely manner and according to Bank requirements.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory for:
* Excellent technical expertise provided throughout the project life cycle;
* Engagement in thorough discussions with all major project stakeholders;
* Open and frank communication established with the PMU, as well as with the Government;
* Flexible and swift response to the country's needs;
* Continuous support provided to strengthen the fiduciary aspects related to project implementation.
- 13 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The MOESYA led the process of project preparation by coordinating the execution of all
required preparatory studies that were funded through a PHRD grant. Project design was supported by the
main recommendations made in the OECS CAS and sector work (see section 3.5 on quality at entry).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The rating is based on the following considerations:
*   The Borrower demonstrated a high sense of ownership and commitment to successfully implement the
project and achieve its development objectives. Loan and credit agreements were observed
scrupulously;
* All critical staff was maintained throughout project implementation, especially at the level of the PMU.
* With the only exception of the period December 1997 - June 1998, the GOCD provided adequate
counterpart funds;
* Dialogue between different GOCD Ministries and the Bank was always open and fluid;
* However, project impact, especially with respect to the strengthening management and planning
component, could have been more significant had the Government: (a) reached an earlier consensus
with respect to the appointment of the returning fellows within MOESYA's structure; and (b) pursued a
much needed institutional reform of MOESYA's structure, with clear lines of responsibilities and terms
of references for its units and personnel.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The rating is based on the following considerations:
*   High sense of responsibility and commitment to achieve project development objectives;
*   Thorough knowledge of fiduciary requirements, in spite of the initial lack of familiarity with Bank
project management requirements;
* Proactiveness and adherence to the Bank's recommendations to improve project performance;
* Willingness to undertake a difficult dialogue with different stakeholders, as well as other MOESYA
departments to enhance project impact.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The rating is based on the factors mentioned in sections 7.4, 7.5, and 7.6 and hereby
summarized:
*   GOCD's commitment to support the reform of the education sector;
* Continuity of the core personnel in the PMU during the life of the project;
* Achievement of project targets and objectives in almost all sub-components;
* Strict adherence to credit and loan agreements;
- 14 -



8. Lessons Learned
Sectoral reforms need Government's commitment at all levels to succeed: In the case of Dominica, key
aspects for the education sector reform should have been framed in the broader context of a civil service
reform to achieve the desired reforms in organization and management of the Ministry of Education. In
addition, the lack of stronger coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the MOESYA prevented
the construction of a new building for the education ministry, which was determined key to achieving the
objective of strengthening the management and efficiency of MOESYA.
Communication with the stakeholders on project's objectives and implementation status needs to be
guaranteed throughout the project life: Despite initial and extensive consultations with stakeholders,
most of the stakeholders emphasized how project objectives and design were not fully understood, thus
creating throughout the implementation period many unrealistic and unfulfilled expectations about its final
outcome. During project-preparation, stakeholders were consulted, but the project failed to adequately
incorporate some of their inputs. Better collaboration and dialogue with stakeholders during implementation
could have strengthened ownership and helped overcome some difficulties (i.e. teacher union position on
adjustment of teacher/student ratios).
Project design should be as thorough as possible and land site issues should be addressed before
project negotiation when possible: Though the project benefited from solid preparation, there were
aspects that could have been improved to prevent implementation problems. This is the case of the quality
of design of infrastructure works. During the preparatory phase of the project, much emphasis was put on
the elaboration of preliminary drawings for all facilities to be financed by the project by a renowned
international architectural firm with experience in Bank-funded projects. In theory, this should have
reduced the delays deriving from assigning this complex task to the Ministry, which did not have the
required expertise. Although necessary, this measure did not prove to be sufficient, given the delays that the
civil work-related activities indeed experienced, which, in turn, resulted in considerable cost overruns.
Implementation management capacity is crucial to achievement of development objectives: Dominica
trained the core PMU staff, who remained involved and led project implementation from inception to
completion. This was a positive element that contributed to the achievement of the development objectives,
despite initial implementation delays and difficulties.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Education contributed with a report, assessing project implementation and outlining
projects outputs and lessons learned from the Borrower's perspective. This is included in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
None.
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/impact indicators:
Indicator              Target in SAR/Mid term review         Actual/latest Estimate
Improved management and
planning capacity of the MOE.
- MOE reorganized        Creation of 4 new units which will be  - Four new units established: Project
fully operative by 2000. Strengthening Management Unit (PMU),
Educational Planning and Statistical
of the Curriculum Development Unit  Unit (EPU), Educational Testing and
(CDU).                            Exams Unit (ETX), and Educational
Materials Unit (EMU).
- Strengthening of the CDU.
- Adjust teacher/student ratio  Baseline 1995  End proiect target        Actual 2000
Primary: 1/21.6  Primary: 1/30            Primary: 1/18.3
Secondary: 1/17  Secondary:l/25           Secondary: 1/18
Improved quality of secondary
education
- Increase percentage of students            1994                          Actual 2000
selected through the CEE to attend  Percentage of passes: 34.2%      Percentage of passes: 76.2%
secondary school
- Increase general performance at the         1997                          Actual 1998
CXC examinations         Percentage of students passing five or Percentage of students passing five or
more subjects 40.5%              more subjects: 52.9%
- Reduction of repetition rates:            1926                          Actual 1999
Primary: 5.4%                    Primary: 3.3%
Secondary: 9%                   Secondary: 9.9%
- Reduction of drop out rates:             1996                          Actual 1999
Primary: 0.54%                   Primary: 0.16%
Secondary: 2.0%                   Secondary: 2.8%
- Availability of instructional         Improved                          lmproved
materials and equipment
Increase enrollment in secondary       700 new places created           1,015 new places created
schools
-16 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator             End of Project Target In SAR/Mid         Actual Output
term review
1. Strengthening Management
Capacity and Planning
New Ministry of Education         Construction completed     A new building for the MOESYA was
constructed and occupied by 1999       by project closing,     not built. An existing building was
rehabilitated and is fully occupied.
MOE reorganized. Establishment of 4 Units established and fully operational. The MOESYA was not reorganized,
units, fully operational by project                            but EXT, PMU, EPU and MPU Units
closing                                              were established and are fully
operational.
PMU manages the project efficiently                              Accomplished. The PMU is at
and develops new projects.                                   present preparing a new project with
the World Bank as well as with other
development institutions.
Staff trained in key MOE units     Fellowships for 25 staff         19 fellowships concluded
Long term development plan for the  Strategic Plan finished by 1996  An Educational Development Plan for
education sector completed                                   1999-2005 and beyond was concluded
in 1999 and is under implementation.
Appointment of 5 additional posts in  Five new positions created:  Three new positions created under
Administration         2 Assistant Chief Education Officers, the project: Assistant Chief
I Senior Education Officer and   Education Officer, Senior
2 Executive Officers.            Administrative Officer and
Executive Officer.
Studies on planning and policy related  Minimum of three studies       Five studies carried out.
issues
2. Qualitative Improvement of Basic
Education
Strengthening of CDU              Four staff trained                 Accomplished
Supply of textbooks in core areas for                                     Accomplished
teacher training in 22 disadvantaged
schools
Supply of Science, Mathematics and                                        Accomplished
Social Science kits to 50 primary
schools
Upgrading of 300 teachers through                                         Accomplished
summer workshops
3. Expand Access to Schools
New secondary school constructed in  Construction finished by project  New school fully operational by March
an under-served area                  closing.              1998 and no expansion of the other
secondary school
Expansion of an existing secondary                                 Accomplished by October 1998
school
Refurbishing of 15 selected primary                              Accomplished by 2000. According to
schools                                                 the school mapping exercise
(1994-95), 15 selected primary
schools refurbished
- 17-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Component           Appraisal Estimate     Actual          Appraisal
A. Strengthening
Management and
Planning                       1.10              0.74             67.3
B. Qualitative
Improvement of
Basic Education               2.80               2.07             73.9
C. Expansion and
Conservation of
School Places                 4.00               4.59             114.8
Total Project Costs              7.90              7.40
Total Financing Required         7.90              7.40
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
l__ __ ___ __  ___Procurement Method
Expenditure      [CB          NCB         Other ..   ;. N.B.F.. -  Total Cost
Category                                           _    _.
1. Works           2.40          1.00        0.80         0.00         4.20
(1.70)       (0.70)       (0.50)       (0.00)       (2.90)
2. Goods            0.30        0.00          1.40        0.00          1.70
(0.30)       (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Technical       0.00         0.00          1.80        0.00          1.80
Assistance       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)       (1.50)
4. Maintenance     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.20          0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total              2.70          1.00        4.00         0.20          7.90
(2.00)       (0.70)       (3.30)       (0.00)       (6.00)
-18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate (in US$ million equivalent)
, _________ ,   ''   " Procureme6ntMethod  '______I'_
Expenditure'     [CB         NCB     I,'Other!.       N.B'.F.!'  Tdt Cost'
-CategoryrI     I' jI               I                               ,
1. Works           3.80        0.00         0.90        0.00         4.70
(3.80)      (0.00)       (0.04)      (0.00)       (3.84)
2. Goods           0.53         0.00        0.78         0.00        1.31
(0.53)      (0.00)       (0.66)      (0.00)       (1.19)
3. Technical       0.00         0.00        1.35         0.00        1.35
Assistance       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.70)      (0.00)       (0.70)
4. Maintenance     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.04        0.04
(.0          (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total              4.33         0.00        3.03         0.04        7.40
(4.33)      (0.00)       (1.40)      (0.00)       (5.73)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are  e anoun  ancl y no ianiL AM rost s inciu a coningencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training. technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-Compponents:     Appraisal Estimate  _Actua/Lates't_Estimate  P ercen'tage,of Appeaisal
Bank   GOC,   Totail  Barik' GOCDI  Total..  Bank'  GOCD    Total
_ _ _ _ _ _l         ,_   D       ._   l _  l_     _       ,,  _  I,.
A. Strengthening
Management and
Planning          0.90   0.20   1.10   0.70   0.04   0.74    77.8     20.0    67.3
B. Qualitative
Improvement of
Basic Education   2.30  0.50    2.80   1.19   0.88   2.07    51.7     176.0   73.9
C. Expansion and
Conservation of
School Places     3.00   1.00   4.00   3.84   0.75   4.59    128.0    75.0    114.8
Total Project Costs  6.20  1.70   7.90   5.73    1.67   7.40    92.4    98.2    93.7
-19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage'ofProjectCycle     '      ,   ;   No.,of Persons and Specialty            -Performance Rating
Coun;:;t  ' (e.g. 2 Economists,1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
'   Month/Year,               ., Specialty , -                Progress      Objective,'
Identification/Preparation
Oct./Nov 1993                2    Educ. Specialists
May 1994                     1    Educ. Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1995                   2    Team Leader, 1 Educ.
Specialist
June 1995                    3    Team Leader, 2 Educ. Specialists
October/Nov. 1995            2    Team Leader, Educ. Specialist
Supervision
June 1996                     2   Team Leader, Educ.                  S             S
Specialist
April 1997                    1   1 FM Specialist                     S             S
May 1997                      2   Team Leader, 1 Educ. Consultant     S             S
Nov. 1997                     6   Team Leader, 2 Educ.                S             S
Consultants, 1 FMS, 1
Procurement Analyst,l
Operations Assisstant
May 1998                      6   Team Leader, 2 Educ.                S             S
Consultants, 1 FMS, 1
Procurement Analyst,l Architect
Dec. 1998                     4   Team Leader, 2 Educ.                S             S
Consultants, 1 Procurement
Analyst
June 1999                     2   Team Leader, 1 Educ. Consultant     S             S
Dec. 1999                     2   Team Leader, 1 Educ. Spec.          S             S
June 2000                     3   Team Leader, 1 Educ. Spec.          S             S
Oct. 2000                     2   Team Leader, 1 Country Sector       S             S
Leader
May 2001                      3   Team Leader, 1 Educ.                S             S
Consultant, 1 Procurement
Analyst
ICR
Nov. 2001                    1     1 Educ. Consultant                 S             S
Feb.2002                     3    Team Leader, 1 Econ., 1             S             S
Curriculum Consultant
- 21 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle'                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Siaffweeks,             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation               n.a                    197,000*
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n.a                    187,000*
Supervision                              n.a                    195,000*
ICR                                     4.81                      40,000
Total                                    n.a                    619,000*
* These table is based on the information currently available on SAP. The figures for identification/preparation
and appraisal negotiation are an estimate. The information system provides a total amount for these categories.
Amounts are not disagregated before FY98.
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OII Macro policies                    O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Li Sector Policies                    O H   OSU*M     O N   O NA
OI Physical                           O H   *SUOM     O N   O NA
O Financial                           O H   OSU*M     O N   O NA
O Institutional Development           O H O SU O M O N      0 NA
L Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction            O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
OII Gender                      O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
LI Other (Please specify)       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
- 23-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
OLending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U    Q HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
C Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   Q HU
a Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
E Implementation agencyperformance                  OHS OS       O U    O HU
El Overall                                          OIHS OS      OU    O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
- Consultants report on: Education Management and Planning; Basic Education Program; Curriculum
Development; Civil Works;
Inventory of School Resources and Access to Basic Education (1994).
- Pre-Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report. World Bank. 1995.
- Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report. World Bank. 1995.
- Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank. November 1995.
Bank project implementation documents
- Aide-Memoires of Supervision missions. World Bank. 1996-2001
- Project Status Reports (PSR). World Bank. 1996-2002
List of studies financed by the Project and Documents prepared by the Borrower
- "Indicators 2000 ". MOESYA 2000.
- "Education Development Plan for 1999-2005 and Beyond". MOEYSA, 1999.
- Impact Review of the Basic Education Reform Project and Secondary Education Support Project.
MOEYSA 2001.
- "Teacher Effectiveness and Efficiency" . MOESYA. 1998.
-" Structural integrity Assessment of the Dominica Grammar School". MOESYA. December 2001.
- 25 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
Project Implementation Completion Report
1. Assessment of the Obiective
The overall objective of the project was to accelerate human resource development to ensure that the requisite
manpower exists to attain the desired economic transition. The project was in support of the first stage of a major
reform of basic education aimed at
i) Improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the education system
ii) Enhancing equity access to educational opportunities.
The overall objective of the project was consistent with the priorities outlined in the 1994 medium term strategy
paper. It also reflected attempts to respond to issues outlined in the officially endorsed proposal for education
reform within the OECS subregion namely "Foundation for the Future: OECS Education Reform Strategy"
(1991). With respect to Dominica, this blue print for educational reform identified the main issues as access,
equity, efficiency, wastage, quality and effectiveness. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the project
objective was consistent with the priorities that were identified at both the national and subregional levels.
2. Assessment of the Design
BERP was structured around three main components. These were:
i) Strengthening Management and Planning
ii) Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education
iii) Expansion and Conservation of School Places
The selection of these components was based on the assumption that the improvement of the MOE's techiical
capacity was a prerequisite for improved planning and management of the sector. At the same time, it recognized
that urgent measures were needed to address system-wide qualitative problems and the expansion needs at the
secondary level. In addition, the project was intended to be the first stage of what was expected to be a major
reform program for which it would serve as a catalyst. In particular, it was designed to improve efficiency, quality,
access and equity.
The design was consistent with the objectives and, while it attracted some criticism in terms of the limited
allocation for learning inputs and the relatively minuscule provision for teacher training, the project positioned the
ministry to optimize the opportunities for further development of the sector. The strategies for subsequent projects
were fashioned to complement the BERP. For example, the Secondary Education Support Project (DFID funded)
contributed to the expansion of access in under-served areas and offered BERP-trained curriculum specialist to
develop curriculum guides for forms I to 3 of the secondary subsystem. The strengthened capacity for leadership
and technical support within the MOE and the extent to which this newly established capacity has been deployed to
help reverse the problems within the sector, attest to the success of the design.
3. Assessment of Project Outcomes
a) Planning and Management of the Sector.
By establishing the PMU, the project secured for the MOE a permanent capacity for planning and managing
projects, and the extension of its responsibilities to other donor supported initiatives commenced less than a year
after effectiveness. Throughout the life of the project, the borrower maintained the PMU in accord with the terms
of the Loan and Credit Agreements. All members of staff are on the permanent establishment.
- 26 -



The Education Planning and Statistics Unit followed the establishment of the PMU as a condition for Project
effectiveness (09/96) and has been maintained with configuration and functions that are consistent with the Loan
and Credit Agreement. It established an invaluable system for educational statistics, and with the assistance of
technical experts (BERP- and SESP-sponsored ), it detailed the Education Development Plan. While sections of the
EDP are being implemented, at the time of writing it had not yet received ratification from the new administration.
b) Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education
The procurement of training programs was staggered throughout the lifetime of the project, but on return of the
trained fellows, the borrower demonstrated commitment towards the establishment of new posts and the necessary
appointments. This allowed for the development of the Curriculum Unit, strengthened capacity for supervision,
capacity for general editing, improvement in school library services, the establishment of measurement and
evaluation capacity and enhanced capacity for teacher education.
The strengthening and establishment of the various units and the wide range of training have all had a positive
impact on improvement of quality in the education system. Additionally, the improvement in working conditions
with the new administrative offices, computers and other tools and equipment, along with relevant reading
materials, have enhanced the quality of operations of the MOE.
Despite repeated attempts, successful recruitment of a trainee for graphic arts proved very difficult and in the end
this fellowship was abandoned. But the potential impact of this change was mitigated by advances in computer
software technology. Other changes in appointments which were not related to fellowships were the borrower's
decision to appoint one Assistant Chief Education Officer as opposed to two and to forego the appointment of a
Senior Education Officer for primary schools.
Currently, not enough information exists to assess the impact of the BERP on the development objectives,
specifically on the more long term issues of quality improvement in hurman resource development. Baseline studies
and national assessments conducted by the Measurement and Evaluation Unit over the past two years of the project
life indicate that less than desirable levels of literacy and numeracy pervade the system. However, improved access
to secondary schooling, the strengthening of institutional management and advances in teacher preparation are
areas of growth.
c) Implementation ofEfficiency Measures
There have been declines in both the dropout and repetition rates for primary school during the project life,
indicative of the improvement in the efficiency of the education system. However similar rates for the secondary
level have increased slightly (<1%). The strengthening of the Teachers' College has seen an increase in the
number of trained teachers, particularly in the secondary cycle. However, teacher attrition continues to be of
concem to the sustainability of gains made in this respect.
One area of concem the BERP has been its inability to reduce the pupil-teacher ratio as projected. The ratio for
primary school had declined by 0.4 to 1:21.4.; although the total number of teachers have declined from 679 to 602
during the life of the project, the projected pupil-teacher ratio was 1:30.
While the secondary schools did not achieve the projected pupil-teacher ratio of 1:18.6, there has been a noted
increase from 1:16.6 to 1:17.9. There has also been a 40% increase in student enrollment over the period under
review and a 30% increase in staff. At the same time, Trade Unions have not responded favorably to attempts to
increase the pupil teacher ratio. Moreover, the reduction of teachers could not be accompanied by a corresponding
increase in instructional and other related resources, so as to negate the negative impact of larger class sizes. The
level of improvements in equity to access has not been followed by similar improvements in equity of scarce
resources available to education. The reduction in the primary school enrollment continues to create conditions for
the implementation of equity protocols, but the necessary leadership at both the administrative and political level,
along with stakeholder discussions, will continue to be critical to the realization of the goals of efficiency within
- 27 -



the education system. Given the current economic downturn, the need to improve efficiency in education should be
a priority.
d) Civil works:
(dzi) New construction and rehabilitation works
Planned new construction works were designed to expand access to secondary education, improve school library
services, build a district education office and provide office facilities for the staff of the MOE. Together this
accounted for US$4,213,942 or 53.1% of original estimated project cost.
The project delivered the Castle Bruce Secondary School, the expansion of the Portsmouth Secondary School, the
Portsmouth School Library and the Ministry of Education Administrative Complex. In addition, the Borrower and
the Bank agreed that the need for the construction of a new toilet block at the Portsmouth Secondary School had
been overlooked during project preparation and this was added as a new item. The schools and library were built
according to the original specifications. Alterations were made to the original design and proposed site for the
office space for new MOE management and technical units. The construction of the district education office was
cancelled and office space was allocated to these officers in the MOE administrative complex. On the whole, civil
works were front-loaded, and for their implementation the PMU was fairly well supported by architectural
engineering services contracted under the project. The consultants were based in Trinidad and Tobago.
In general, actual cost exceeded SAR estimates but these were within contract sum. The disparity between SAR
estimates and actual cost may be attributed to time lags between project preparation stage and implementation as
well as inaccuracies in the costing process.
With the exception of the Castle Bruce Secondary School on which there was a 9-month delay, all new works were
completed within the projected construction time frame. The delay on Castle Bruce was the result of inadequate
site investigation and management issues. The delays in the preparation of the MOE administrative building meant
that the offices were not available for use at the time of return of the first group of trained fellows.
(d ii) Rehabilitation
The project provided for the rehabilitation of selected primary schools. This sub-component was implemented in
three phases leading to the rehabilitation of 13 primary schools and one secondary school. While US$100,000 was
established as a ceiling for any particular school, agreement was reached on rehabilitating the secondary school at
a cost of US$261,709.65 (EC$706,607.95). This necessitated an increase in the budgetary allocation for
rehabilitation from a SAR estimate of US$633,766 to US$947,319.99 Throughout the implementation of civil
works, the Borrower was supported by architectural and engineering services procured under a project-sponsored
contract.
e) Fellowships
A total of 25 fellowships were envisioned under the project over a period of 253 person months. The first 4
fellowships were financed under a DFID-supported facility and balances within the Japanese Project Preparation
Grant (PHRD) supported the first 8 study tours. These facilities allowed the borrower to increase training by the
addition of a fourth fellowship in teacher education with a focus on Language Arts (See Appendix 1).
Long-term training was procured from regional and international institutions. Programs were delivered within
budgetary projections, and on completion of this sub-component there were overall budgetary saving of
US$195,876.78
- 28 -



For the most part, fellows indicated strong satisfaction with the programs they received. The MOE's readiness to
utilize the newly acquired skills and knowledge was constrained by the delayed completion of the new office space
and the attendant protracted procurement of critical equipment for which alternative office space was unavailable.
In addition, the delay in the availability of the office space made it more challenging for the MOE to secure the
coordination of work programs among newly trained personnel and established units.
j) Procurement of goods
Under this category, the project provided for school and office equipment, furniture, vehicles, textbooks and other
educational materials, office supplies, computer hardware and software. While original specifications for goods
were in some cases upgraded, all items were procured in accordance with the terms of the Loan and Credit
Agreements. The procurement plans for the Castle Bruce and Portsmouth Secondary Schools and 'the Portsmouth
School Library were detailed so that the delivery coincided with completion of the civil works. Instructional inputs
for rehabilitated schools were procured within the second year of the project and school furniture was procured
through four contracts.
The procurement of office furniture and equipment was conducted through a series of small contracts that were
awarded throughout the lifetime of the project, thus resulting in multiple contracts for similar items. This was as a
direct result of the delayed completion of the new office space.
Under the life of the project, the price of computers declined, thereby allowing the borrower to purchase additional
computers without exceeding the projected SAR cost. In particular, changes in the procurement plans were made to
procure complete sets of computers and peripherals for the Castle Bruce Secondary and Portsmouth Secondary
expansion. Each institution received 25 computers. Additionally, significant savings were also realized on the
mobile library. In general, suppliers adhered to the terms and conditions of the agreement.
g) Expert Services
Expert services were designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOE through skills transfer to the
newly established units. Project provisions were made for consultancy services in education management,
education planning, project management, procurement, educational testing and production of reading materials
and auditing. Without exception, contracts were awarded in all these areas.
(g.i) Education Administration
The first contract was awarded in education administration. While a very useful report was delivered after a period
of intense collaboration, implementation of the recommendations was negatively affected by the non-appointment
of a change manager within the ministry and the frequent changes within the office of the Permanent Secretary.
The end result is that restructuring is still ongoing with the terms of reference of some new units awaiting formal
adoption.
(g.ii) Education Planning and Statistics
The consultancy on Education Planning entailed the strengthening of the establishment of an Education Planning
and Statistic Unit, which was established about four months prior. It resulted in training of 6 members of staff, and
the first draft of the education sector plan was prepared during that consultancy. This was a highly effective
consultancy during which the technician actively engaged in transfer of skills and knowledge.
(g.iii) Procurement
The consultancy for procurement services involved three phases and focused on the procurement of goods. On
hindsight, the TOR could have been improved to ensure that skill transfer with regards to the procurement of civil
works and services were provided for. Nonetheless, the consultant for procurement services was among the most
- 29 -



effective with regards to the delivery of his obligations.
(g.iv) ProjectManagement
This was the fourth consultancy to be awarded and was fairly effective in its attempts to help strengthen the work
of the PMU.
(g.v) Educational Testing
This consultancy helped to strengthen the capacity of the Testing and Measurement Unit and was delivered in two
stages. It also assisted in designing the specification for equipment and material needs and offered
recommendations on policy with respect to system-wide testing and the development of the Testing and
Measurement Unit. This consultancy satisfied the requirements of the TORS and met the expectations of the staff
of the Testing and Measurement Unit.
(g.vi) Preparation, Publishing and Distribution of Education Materials
This consultancy was intended to strengthen the capacity of the MOE to produce, edit and publish educational
materials. It also offered recommendations on production and procurement policies. Broad-based and extensive
hands-on training was provided in the preparation and production of materials and two readers were actually
delivered. These were for Social Studies and Language Arts.
Because of the difficulty associated with selection and placement of a fellow in editing, this consultancy was staged
within the last year of the project. This was because the presence of the general editor as the counterpart for this
consultancy was considered critical for effective skill transfer. However, the hands on approach and the
involvement of a wide cross-section of MOE officials, primary teachers, all curriculum officers, learning support
personnel, tutors of the Teachers College and personnel from other ministries made the consultancy extremely
successful in terms of its overall impact and the potential for permanent capacity in desk top publishing, general
editing and materials production within the MOE.
(g.vii) Audit
Six annual audits were conducted in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Loan and Credit Agreement.
Throughout the project a single audit firm was contracted. While the procedures proved a bit challenging at the
onset, in general the final product was satisfactory.
(g. viii) Overall Assessment of Consultancies
Three of the six contracts involved one person teams while the others consisted of three (3) persons on average,
with varied skills and background which reflected the needs of the special assignments. One-person teams proved
to be extremely effective and were among the most successful in the delivery of requisite technical assistance. In all
cases, TORS were prepared using a collaborative approach and with expert inputs where necessary. In general,
they proved appropriate. The actual cost for these consultancies was within SAR estimates and the savings under
this category were eventually reallocated.
h) Studies
The project provided for a number of studies designed to address data gaps and inform policy decisions.
Specifically, the SAR listed the following:
Organizational and expenditure efficiency under Senior Management and Administration;
Selected sector planning and policy related studies and surveys;
Selected project evaluation studies;
Studies on the impact of books and materials on student performance;
- 30 -



Studies on the impact of reading on student performance;
Studies related to testing and measurement as well as curriculum related studies.
By project completion, the following studies were realized: teacher effectiveness and efficiency, summative
evaluation of the BERP and the SESP and a Structural Integrity Assessment of the Dominica Grammar School.
The latter was a project preparatory study for future plans. Additionally, similar exercises were done for literacy
and for the smooth transition of students from the primary to the secondary level. While the number of
project-financed studies was limited, a number of such complimentary activities were conducted by MOE staff or
by use of other funding. Among these were studies on male underachievement, evaluation of the school feeding
program, evaluation of the textbook provision scheme and salary expenditure ratios.
i) Training
Budgetary allocations were made for training in planning and statistics, curriculum, supervision, testing and
measurement, teacher training, educational materials development and use of the library. Project sponsored
training was delivered'in all of the areas (see Appendix 2). In all cases, these were planned and managed by the
units or other interested entities. The organizers worked closely with the staff of the PMU. In some cases, returned
fellows served as facilitators.
The achievement of planned works in teacher education was limited by parallel activities that pursued teacher
education objectives. Notable among these is the Primary Education Program. The result was that the SAR
estimates for teacher education were underutilized and eventually reallocated. But local training served as a
successful strategy for useful skill transfer and capacity growth, particularly in newly established areas such as
testing and measurement, school library services, planning and educational statistics and supervision.
4. Assessment of Operational Experiences
While a Project Advisory Committee was proposed, it ceased to function after two meetings within,the first quarter
of project implementation. It would appear that the officials from outside the MOE found it difficult to give the
necessary time.
The borrower allowed the PMU to manage the implementation of the project. The Project Manager worked very
closely with the Chief Education Officer and the Permanent Secretary and liased with the officials of the Ministry
of Finance. Regular quarterly reports were prepared and monthly financial statements were submitted to all high
profile stakeholders. In addition, from the outset, the Project Manager was added to the MOE's Senior
Management team. This involvement at the policy level of the MOE ensured the continuation of strong political
support and proved advantageous with regards to timely resolution of challenges.
5. Evaluation of Borrower's nerformance
*   The Borrower maintained a PMU with critical staff responsible for the implementation of the project,
including the Project Manager, Procurement Officer, Project Accountant. This proved to be an effective
approach.
*   The political commitment to the provision of counterpart funding for the project is commendable since the
project survived three successive political administrations. Each remained conmmitted to the objective and
intent of the project.
*   Every effort was made to provide timely counterpart funds as required for smooth implementation.
* Openness and transparency characterized the operation of the project.
*   The Borrower remained committed to ongoing dialogue with the Bank during implementation.
*   In general, strict adherence was maintained with regards to the terms and conditions of the Loan and Credit
Agreement.
- 31 -



6. The Bank's Performance
During the preparatory stages of the project, the Bank collaborated with the MOE to ensure a consultative
approach to the identification of project objectives and the selection of project strategies. These included meetings
with a wide range of government officials particularly from education and the Ministry of Finance, as well as
representatives of the teaching service and unions.
There were eleven (11) Bank supervision missions and two pre-appraisal missions by Bank staff, and on two
occasions, staff of the implementing agency and other MOE officials were invited to travel to Washington D.C.
The missions included an education specialist who was usually the task manager, a financial management analyst
and a procurement specialist.
During those supervision missions, the Bank assessed progress with project objectives and changes in
Government's education policy, reViewed accounting practices, financial budgets, procurement activities and
compliance with the Loan and Credit Agreements. By working closely with the Borrower's implementing agency,
Bank missions provided counseling and technical support.
In general, the Bank responded in a timely manner to the Borrower's request for assistance. A positive and timely
response was given to the Borrower's application for one amendment to the Development and Credit Agreements
and subsequent to this, there were positive responses to two applications for reallocations of category balances and
a six month extension of the project.
Generally, withdrawal applications were processed within two weeks. However, in general, responses to the audited
annual reports were delayed and the same may be said for feedback on the quarterly financial reports.
7. Proiect Sustainabilitv
The deliverables of the project have all been incorporated into the normal operations of the Ministry of Education.
All fellows have been appointed to predetermined posts on the Establishment and all new units are in pursuit of
the functions for which they were designed. In addition, adequate budgetary provisions have been made for the
payment of salaries and the operations of the new and expanded school, the MOE Administrative complex and the
Portsmouth School Library Center.
8. Future Operations
The MOE will need to continue its efforts at restructuring. Although progress on this goal was accelerated by the
establishment of the new and strengthened units, formal adoption of terms of reference is still outstanding. The
same is true of the learning support and counselling capability of the MOE that was established under the
Secondary Education Support Project. More importantly, ongoing efforts are needed to optimize the benefits to the
school system and to secure a cohesive and adequately coordinated approach to the planning and delivery of work
programs. There is also scope for use of the newly found expertise in areas of tertiary education.
The Borrower needs to continue efforts to secure a more equitable distribution of resources within the school
system. At the same time, measures at improved efficiency and qualitative gains across the sector should be
rigorously pursued. Teacher education, continued expansion and improvement of secondary school places in the
southeast and the capital and deficiencies in the curricular provisions are visible areas for additional investment.
Additional areas are completion of a preventive maintenance strategy for school plans and the operationalization of
plant maintenance schedules.
- 32 -



9. Lessons Learned
The project was designed with successor projects in mind, as such complementarity with other initiatives was very
easily secured.
* While a participatory approach was used in project preparation and continued during the first two years of
implementation, this waned with time and might have contributed to a limited understanding of the purpose
and objectives of the project.
* Public awareness should be sustained throughout the project cycle.
* Strong political support was required for early appointment to newly established posts and timely provisions of
counterpart funding
* Early participation and continued involvement of the Ministry of Finance is critical to successful
implementation.
* A willingness to engage the Bank in ongoing dialogue is essential for timely resolution of challenges.
* Future operations must ensure that the MOE establishes the mechanism for transforming project output into
areas of project impact.
* Successful organizational restructuring requires the appointment of a change manager and a clearly defined
implementation strategy and plan.
* The MOE should establish end user policies and training programs prior to procurement of equipment.
* The selection of indicators should be reviewed so that they are reasonable, achievable and politically
acceptable.
- 33 -



APPENDIX 1 -Feflowships under the BERP
Fellowships                      Recipients                   InstitutionlUniversity
Plannine and Develonment
Economics of Education              ax Andrew                             University of London
Statistician                        anya Jones                         University of The West Indies
lanner                            Ted Serrant                            University of Pittsburg
urrlculum Development
Language Arts                       isbertha Buffong                   University of the West Indies
Mathematics                        Simon Sharplis                      New Mexico State University
Social Studies                      dward Lawrence                     University of the West Indies
Science                            rank Newton                         New Mexico State University
chool Supervision
hool Supervision                 Anindell Thomas                     New Mexico State University
chool Supervision                 Stephen Hyacinth                    University of the West Indies
Testin and Measurement
esting Specialist                  cholas Goldberg                    University of Toronto (OISE)
esting Specialist                 Rock Bruno                             Manchester University
Educational Materials
Art Editing
General Editing                    Rachel Panthier                           Pace University
Teacher Trainin 
Science                             osette Prince                      University of the West Indies
Mathematics                        Adrien Durand                       University of the West Indies
Teacher TraininL Cont.
Education                          Steve Joseph                        University of the West Indies
Language Arts                      Erna Alfred                             University of Sussex
hool Librarn System
Library Technician                 Monique Matthew                             Excelsior
Library Technician                 Jennifer Joseph                          Excelsior College
Librarian                          Davina Jones
Study Tour
Accountant Attachment              Dorella Williams                            St. Lucia
Workshop/Meeting                    avid Edwards                                Trinidad
Workshop/Meeting                    avid Edwards                                St.Lucia
World Bank Mission                  avid Edwards                              Washington
ord Bank Mission                 Dorella Williams                           Washington
Senor Management
Workshop/Meeting                   Hon. Ronald Green                            France
Workshop/Meeting                   Merille Matthew                              France
Workshop/Meeting                   Patsy Letang                                 France
WorkshopMeeting                  Anthony Lockhart                             Trinidad
Workshop/Meeting                 Anthony Lockhart                             St.Lucia
orld Bank Mission                Flix Gregoire                              Washington
- 34 -



APPENDIX 2 - Local Training under the BERP
Component                               Tratning                      Beneflciaries
Education Planning Unit  Training in Statistics for Assistant Statistician   I person
Education Planning Unit  Training in Statistics for Assistant Statistician   I person
urriculum               Workshops in Language Arts, Science                162 Teachers
Mathematics and Social Studies                      64 principals
Teacher training         Workshop on the use of Science and Mathematics kits  67 Teachers
Teacher Training         Summer Workshop for Teachers conflict resolution    21 Teachers
Process of Science                                  4ITeachers
Management & Supervision                            34 teachers
Testing & Measurement     raining activities for National Assessment Test    60 principals
55 teachers
30 Staff Moe
Teacher training         Summer Workshop for Teachers In-Service Training    34 Teachers
Curriculum Development   Workshop in Educational Materials Production        18 Teachers
School Library Systems   Workshops on School Libraries: a resource full option  81 teachers
resting & Measurement     raining activities for National Assessment Test
Teacher training         Summer Workshop for Teachers In-Service Training    35 teachers
Readers purchase for teacher training
Educational Materials    Training in Art Design for General Editor           I person
Senior Management        Retreat for School Supervision
Teacher Training         Summer Workshop for Teachers                        35 Teachers
Testing & Measurement    National Assessment
- 35 -



- 36-












'IMAGiNG
Report No.:         24199
Type'.    ICR



