Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3969-DOM
                                 Loan Agreement
                        (Basic Education Reform Project)
                                     between
                            COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                                       and
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated March 14, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3969-DOM
                                 LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1996, between COMMONWEALTH OF
DOMINICA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and
the International Development Association (the Association) of
even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)    the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to two million one
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,100,000) (the
Credit);
    (C)    the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before
disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in this
Agreement are made; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                    ARTICLE I
                         General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions)
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement, the
General Conditions and in the Development Credit Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement.
                                   ARTICLE II
                                    The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to three million seventy thousand
Dollars ($3,070,000).
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
                                   ARTICLE III
                            Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Section 2.02 (b) and Articles III and IV of the Development
Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4 thereto are
incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following
modifications in said Section, Articles and Schedules unless
the context otherwise requires:
Page  3
           (i)   the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
           (ii)  the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
                 read as "Loan" and "Loan Account";
          (iii)  the term "General Conditions" shall be read
                 as "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
                 and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank dated
                 January 1, 1985; and
           (iv)  the references to Sections 9.06 (a) (iii), 9.06
                 (c) and 9.07 of the General Conditions shall be
                 read as references to Sections 9.07 (a) (iii),
                 9.07 (c) and 9.08 of the General Conditions.
    (b)    So long as any part of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and
unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:
           (i)   all actions taken, including approvals given, by
                 the Association pursuant to the Section or the
                 Articles of, and the Schedules to, the
                 Development Credit Agreement enumerated in
                 paragraph (a) of this Section, as well as
                 pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the Development
                 Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or
                 given in the name and on behalf of both the
                 Association and the Bank; and
           (ii)  all information or documentation furnished by the
                 Borrower to the Association pursuant to any of
                 such provisions of the Development Credit
                 Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished to both
                 the Association and the Bank.
                                   ARTICLE IV
                           Effective Date; Termination
    Section 4.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement shall
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
    Section 4.02. The date June 17, 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 4.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of
the Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower
and the Bank.
                                   ARTICLE VI
                    Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Education, Sports and Youth
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
           Ministry of Finance,
Page  4
           Industry and Planning
           Government Headquarters
           Kennedy Avenue
           Roseau, Dominica
           Telefax:                         Telex:
           (809) 448-0054                   8613 EXT DO
    For the Bank:
           International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                 INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                 Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                         COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                         By /s/ Simon P. Richards
                                                Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                   Regional Vice President
                                           Latin America and the Caribbean
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                   Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
    (a)    "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
    (b)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c)    "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (d)    "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
Page  5
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
           (i)   LIBOR Base Rate; plus
           (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
    (b)    From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
           (i)   Fixed Base Rate; plus
           (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)    "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
    (b)    "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
           (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
           (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                 such Interest Period, below (or above) the London
                 interbank offered rates, or other reference
                 rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                 Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                 allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                 loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                 such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (c)    "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)    "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
           (i)   one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
           (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                 the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                 below (or above) the London interbank offered
Page  6
                 rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                 deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                 borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                 single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                 it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
         (iii)   the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                 Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable
to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis shall
become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the
Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the eighteenth Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be one-
twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after February, 15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay
on said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
