Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2803-DOM
                         Development Credit Agreement
                       (Basic Education Reform Project)
                                    between
                           COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated March 14, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2803-DOM
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
          AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1996, between COMMONWEALTH
OF DOMINICA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
          WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
          (B)  the Borrower has also requested the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount of three
million seventy thousand Dollars ($3,070,000) (the Loan);
          (C)  the Borrower and the Association intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided
for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures
in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds
of the Loan are made; and
          WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
          NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                   ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
          Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
          (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
          (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
                     "Except as the Association and the Borrower
               shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be
               made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the
               territories of any country which is not a member
               of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
               supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
               purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
               for any import of goods, if such payment or
               import, to the knowledge of the Association, is
               prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
               Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
               Charter of the United Nations."
          Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
          (a)  "Basic Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's territory for the first to the tenth
year of schooling;
          (b)  "CDU" means the Borrower's curriculum development
unit referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;
          (c)  "Education Strategy Letter" means the Borrower's
letter, satisfactory to the Association, to be provided to the
Association pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement,
describing:
               (i)   the policy adopted by the Borrower to reform
                     its education sector;
              (ii)   the actions to be taken to effect such
                     reform; and
             (iii)   the Borrower's plans and programs with
                     respect to: (A) the adjustment of teacher
                     to student ratios; (B) the transfer of
                     savings to strengthen MOE's management;
                     and (C) the provision of instructional
                     supplies and maintenance services to
                     schools;
          (d)  "EPU" means the MOE's education planning and
statistics unit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this
Agreement;
          (e)  "ETX" means MOE's educational testing and
examinations unit referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this
Agreement;
          (f)  "Loan Agreement" means the Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as
such Agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such Agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
Page  3
          (g)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
the portfolio of Education;
          (h)  "PMU" means the Project management unit referred to
in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
          (i)  "Primary Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's territory for the first to the
seventh year of Basic Education (as herein defined);
          (j)  "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
          (k)  "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Association, containing the procedures for
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia:
               (i)   the organizational arrangements and
                     responsibilities of the various departments
                     and agencies of the Borrower with respect to
                     the implementation of the Project;
              (ii)   the operational aspects of the execution
                     of the Project;
             (iii)   the disbursement and procurement arrangements;
              (iv)   the financial management and control
                     arrangements;
               (v)   the terms of reference for: (A) internal and
                     external audits; and (B) all PMU staff and
                     consultants' services to be contracted under
                     the Project;
              (vi)   the monitoring and evaluation indicators
                     for assessment of Project implementation
                     performance; and
             (vii)   the eligibility criteria for candidates
                     for fellowships, training and study tours
                     to be provided under the Project;
          (l)  "Secondary Education" means the education services
provided in the Borrower's territory for the eighth to the
tenth year of Basic Education (as herein defined), and for the
eleventh and twelfth year of schooling; and
          (m)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                  ARTICLE II
                                  The Credit
          Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,100,000).
          Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
          (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Page  4
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
          Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
          Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
          (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
               (i)   from the date sixty days after the date of
                     this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
                     respective dates on which amounts shall be
                     withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
                     Account or cancelled; and
              (ii)   at the rate set as of the June 30
                     immediately preceding the accrual date or
                     at such other rates as may be set from
                     time to time thereafter pursuant to
                     paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of
                     June 30 in each year shall be applied
                     from the next payment date in that year
                     specified in Section 2.06 of this
                     Agreement.
          (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
               (i)   at such places as the Association shall
                     reasonably request;
              (ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed
                     by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
                     and
             (iii)   in the currency specified in this
                     Agreement for the purposes of Section
                     4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
                     other eligible currency or currencies as
                     may from time to time be designated or
                     selected pursuant to the provisions of
                     that Section.
          Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
          Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.
          Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and
November 15 commencing May 15, 2006 and ending November 15,
2030. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth per cent (1-
1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
          (b)  Whenever:
Page  5
               (i)   the Borrower's gross national product per
                     capita, as determined by the Association,
                     shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
                     dollars for five consecutive years; and
              (ii)   the Bank shall consider the Borrower
                     creditworthy for Bank lending, the
                     Association may, subsequent to the review
                     and approval thereof by the Executive
                     Directors of the Association and after
                     due consideration by them of the
                     development of the Borrower's economy,
                     modify the terms of repayment of
                     installments under paragraph (a) above by
                     requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
                     amount of each such installment not yet
                     due until the principal amount of the
                     Credit shall have been repaid. If so
                     requested by the Borrower, the
                     Association may revise such modification
                     to include, in lieu of some or all of the
                     increase in the amounts of such
                     installments, the payment of interest at
                     an annual rate agreed with the
                     Association on the principal amount of
                     the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
                     time to time, provided that, in the
                     judgment of the Association, such
                     revision shall not change the grant
                     element obtained under the above-
                     mentioned repayment modification.
          (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
          Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions.
                                  ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
          Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the
Project Implementation Manual, and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, educational and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
          (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall at all times until the
completion of the Project, operate and maintain, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, in a bank
acceptable to the Association, a revolving fund with a
quarterly balance equivalent to the Borrower's counterpart
funding requirements for the next three months of Project
implementation, as provided in the annual budget referred to in
Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement.
          Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
Page  6
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
          Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
          (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
          (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
          Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
          (a)  maintain procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual,
the carrying out of the Project;
          (b)  furnish to the Association, at the end of the
months of March and September of each year until the completion
of the Project, beginning in 1996, a report on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six
months preceding the date of said reports pursuant to the
monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in the Project
Implementation Manual; said reports to be of such scope and
detail as the Association may reasonably request;
          (c)  in each of the March reports referred to in
paragraph (b) above, also recommend the measures deemed
necessary to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, including a budget,
an investment plan and the targets to be achieved for the
implementation of the Project during the Borrower's succeeding
fiscal year (from July 1 to June 30 of each year); and
          (d)  review with the Association, during the month of
May of each year until the completion of the Project, beginning
in 1996, the corresponding March report furnished according to
paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all measures,
satisfactory to the Association, required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof.
          Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
          (a)  maintain a Project management unit with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association which
shall include, inter alia:
               (i)   carrying out of Part A.1 (c) of the Project;
              (ii)   coordination of the implementation of the
                     Project;
             (iii)   monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
              (iv)   preparation of the reports referred to in
                     Sections 3.03 (a) and 3.04 (b) of this
                     Agreement;
               (v)   processing of documentation required for
                     disbursement of the Credit proceeds and for
                     procurement of goods, works and services under
                     the Project; and
Page  7
              (vi)   maintenance of the records and separate
                     accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of
                     this Agreement;
          (b)  ensure that PMU is at all times staffed with at
least a Project manager, an accountant and a procurement
officer. The Project manager, the accountant and the
procurement officer shall be full-time professionals with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association,
and with qualifications acceptable to the Association, and
shall be assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers; and
          (c)  ensure that PMU is at all times provided with
adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Association, to carry
out its responsibilities.
          Section 3.06. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.3
of the Project, the Borrower shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
          (a)  maintain during Project implementation an
educational planning and statistics unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association which shall
include, inter alia:
               (i)   collection and analysis of all statistical
                     data related to the education sector; and
              (ii)   dissemination of the data produced in
                     this unit;
          (b)  ensure that EPU is at all times staffed with
professionals, in numbers and with qualifications and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, assisted by
clerical staff in adequate numbers; and
          (c)  ensure that EPU is at all times provided with
adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Association, to carry
out its responsibilities.
          Section 3.07. For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1
(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
          (a)  not later than the date to be established in the
Education Strategy Letter, or such later date as the
Association may agree upon, establish and maintain during
Project implementation, an educational testing and examinations
unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association which shall include, inter alia:
               (i)   the evaluation and modification, as
                     appropriate, of current examinations given at
                     the end of Primary Education;
              (ii)   the development of a pilot test and the
                     introduction of new examinations for
                     Basic Education; and
             (iii)   the development of norms for, and
                     standards of, achievement for Basic
                     Education;
          (b)  ensure that ETX is at all times staffed with a
number of professionals, satisfactory to the Association, with
qualifications and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers;
and
          (c)  ensure that ETX is at all times provided with
adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Association, to carry
out its responsibilities.
Page  8
          Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of carrying out
Parts B.1 (c) and B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, at
all times during Project implementation, maintain CDU, within
MOE, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association;
          (b)  ensure that CDU is at all times staffed with a
number of professionals, satisfactory to the Association, with
qualifications and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers;
and
          (c)  ensure that CDU is at all times provided with
adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Association to carry
out its responsibilities.
          Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain during
Project implementation a Project advisory committee,
established with a representative from MOE, and from each of
the Ministries responsible for the portfolios of Finance, and
Personal and Public Works to advise and counsel on matters
related to Project implementation.  The Project manager
referred to in Section 3.05 (b) above shall act as secretary to
that committee.
          Section 3.10. The Borrower shall comply with the
teacher to student ratios for Primary Education and Secondary
Education set forth in the Education Strategy Letter.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                              Financial Covenants
          Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
          (b)  The Borrower shall:
               (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                     paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                     for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                     audited, in accordance with appropriate
                     auditing principles consistently applied, by
                     independent auditors acceptable to the
                     Association;
              (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                     available, but in any case not later than
                     four months after the end of each such
                     year, a certified copy of the report of
                     such audit by said auditors, of such
                     scope and in such detail as the
                     Association shall have reasonably
                     requested; and
             (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                     information concerning said records,
                     accounts and the audit thereof as the
                     Association shall from time to time
                     reasonably request.
          (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
               (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
Page  9
                     accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                     records and accounts reflecting such
                     expenditures;
              (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                     Association has received the audit report
                     for the fiscal year in which the last
                     withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                     payment out of the Special Account was
                     made, all records (contracts, orders,
                     invoices, bills, receipts and other
                     documents) evidencing such expenditures;
             (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                     to examine such records; and
              (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                     included in the annual audit referred to
                     in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                     the report of such audit contains a
                     separate opinion by said auditors as to
                     whether the statements of expenditure
                     submitted during such fiscal year,
                     together with the procedures and internal
                     controls involved in their preparation,
                     can be relied upon to support the related
                     withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
                          Effective Date; Termination
          Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
          (a)  that the Association has received the Education
Strategy Letter;
          (b)  that the Association has received evidence,
satisfactory to the Association, that:
               (i)   the PMU and EPU have been established as
                     provided in Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of this
                     Agreement, respectively;
              (ii)   the Project Account has been opened and
                     an amount equivalent to not less than
                     $250,000 has been deposited therein;
             (iii)   the Project Implementation Manual has
                     been adopted; and
              (iv)   all conditions precedent to the
                     effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have
                     been fulfilled, other than that related
                     to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
          Section 5.02. The date of June 17, 1996 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                  ARTICLE VI
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
          Section 6.01. The Minister of Education, Sports and
Youth Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Page  10
          Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
          For the Borrower:
               Ministry of Finance,
               Industry and Planning
               Government Headquarters
               Kennedy Avenue
               Roseau, Dominica
               Telefax:                           Telex:
               (809) 448-0054                     8613 EXT DO
          For the Association:
               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America
               Cable address:                     Telex:
                     INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
                     Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                     COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                     By /s/ Simon P. Richards
                                                Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                   Regional Vice President
                                           Latin America and the Caribbean
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                                and of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                      Amount of the     Amount of the          % of
                   Credit Allocated   Loan Allocated        Expendi-
                      (Expressed        (Expressed            tures
                        in SDR           in Dollar            to be
Category              Equivalent)      Equivalent)         Financed
Page  11
(1) Civil Works:
    (a) Construction     860,000        1,294,000          72%
        of schools
        and offices
    (b) Rehabilitation   130,000          193,000          72%
        of schools
(2) Goods                530,000          800,000          100% of foreign
                                                           expenditures
                                                           and 50% of local
                                                           expenditures
(3) Consultants'         100,000          153,000          75%
    services
(4) Fellowships          200,000          305,000          95%
(5) Studies               50,000           72,500          50%
    and training
(6) Unallocated          230,000          252,500
                        ________         ________
       TOTAL           2,100,000        3,070,000
                       =========        =========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
          (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower;
          (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which the goods and services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures;"
          (c)   the term "fellowships" includes, inter alia,
tuition and travel and subsistence expenditures for the
participants in courses and internships to be provided abroad
under the Project; and
          (d)   the term "local training" includes, inter alia:
                (i)   all the necessary activities and acquisitions
                      of equipment and instructional materials for
                      the training to be provided in the Borrower's
                      territory under the Project;
               (ii)   production of training materials;
              (iii)   rental of training facilities; and
               (iv)   transportation expenses of trainees to
                      the place where training is provided and
                      subsistence expenses for such trainees.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
          (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed SDR 410,000 equivalent may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after October 1, 1995;
          (b)   payments made for expenditures made under Category
Page  12
(4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the
candidates selected to receive the fellowships, as well as the
selected training programs covered by such fellowships, have
been agreed to by the Association before the fellowships are
awarded; and
          (c)   payments made under Category (1) (b) of the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule exceeding in the aggregate
$100,000 equivalent with respect to any school.
4.        The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for: (a) expenditures for contracts for goods and works costing
less than the equivalent of: (i) $50,000 in the case of goods
(other than contracts awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part C.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); and (ii) $100,000 in
the case of works; and (b) payments under Categories 4 and 5 of
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
                                  SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
          The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen
the institutional capacity of MOE to guide and carry out the
long-term development of the Borrower's education sector; (b)
enhance the quality of Basic Education and the equity of access
to it; and (c) expand access to Secondary Education.
          The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:         Strengthening Management and Planning
1.        Strengthening of MOE's institutional capacity through,
inter alia, the provision of technical assistance and training:
(a) to manage the Borrower's education sector in order to,
inter alia: (i) improve the coordination among key operational
units of MOE; and (ii) restructure and strengthen the
organization of the head office of MOE (establishing new units
or reinforcing existing units); (b) to prepare and develop a
long-term development plan for the Borrower's education sector,
including the programs and projects thereof; (c) for the
management of projects; and (d) for financial management of the
education sector.
2.        Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out
of auditing activities under the Project.
3.        Development of an integrated education data system to
provide economic and social data on the Borrower's education
sector, including student, school, financial and personnel
information.
4.        Carrying out of studies to formulate future policy and
programs for the Borrower's education sector.
5.        Construction of new office facilities for MOE,
including a facility for an education district office and the
provision of the necessary goods for these facilities.
Part B:         Quality of Basic Education
1.        Strengthening of: (a) training for teachers of Basic
Education; (b) MOE's testing and measurement capacity to
monitor performance of the Borrower's educational system and of
students therein; (c) MOE's curriculum development and
evaluation capacity; and (d) MOE's capacity to supervise
Primary Education and Secondary Education, all through the
provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of the
necessary goods therefor.
Page  13
2.        Improvement of the MOE's capacity for the acquisition,
production and distribution of educational materials for
Primary Education and Secondary Education, through the
provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of the
necessary goods therefor.
3.        Strengthening of the MOE's school library system,
through, inter alia, the provision of technical assistance and
the acquisition of the necessary goods therefor.
Part C:         Expansion of Access to Education
1.        Increase of the number of Secondary Education places
for students in under-served school districts in the Borrower's
territory, through, inter alia, the provision of technical
assistance and new facilities, and the acquisition of the
necessary goods therefor.
2.        Rehabilitation of Primary Education and Secondary
Education school facilities in the Borrower's territory
                                     * * *
          The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                  SCHEDULE 3
                     Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:         General
          Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:         International Competitive Bidding
          1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this
Section, goods and works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
          2.    To the extent practicable, all contracts for goods
to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more each.
Part C:         Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Limited International Bidding
          Computer hardware and software estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or more per contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.        National Competitive Bidding
          Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract and $1,000,0000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.        International Shopping
Page  14
          Goods estimated to cost $15,000 equivalent or more, but
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and $900,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.        National Shopping
          Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$15,000 per contract and $300,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.        Procurement of Small Works
          Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, and $800,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:         Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.        Procurement Planning
          Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify
for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.        Prior Review
          With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Parts B.1, C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.        Post Review
          With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
          Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts
shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Association shall be used.
Page  15
                                  SCHEDULE 4
                                Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
          (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this agreement;
          (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this agreement; and
          (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
          (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
          (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the                      
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                      requests for deposits into the Special
                      Account at such intervals as the Association
                      shall specify.
               (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                      request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                      the Association the documents and other
                      evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                      4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                      payments in respect of which
                      replenishment is requested.  On the
                      basis of each such request, the
                      Association shall, on behalf of the
                      Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                      Account and deposit into the Special
                      Account such amount as the Borrower
                      shall have requested and as shall have
                      been shown by said documents and other
                      evidence to have been paid out of the
                      Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
Page  16
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
          (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this agreement; or
          (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to
the Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
          (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of
the applicable General Conditions; or
          (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account:
                (i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount
                      not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
                      Schedule; or
               (ii)   was not justified by the evidence
                      furnished to the Association, the
                      Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
                      from the Association:
                      (A)   provide such additional evidence as the
                            Association may request; or
                      (B)   deposit into the Special Account (or, if
                            the Association shall so request, refund
                            to the Association) an amount equal to
                            the amount of such payment or the
                            portion thereof not so eligible or
                            justified.  Unless the Association shall
                            otherwise agree, no further deposit by
Page  17
                            the Association into the Special Account
                            shall be made until the Borrower has
                            provided such evidence or made such
                            deposit or refund, as the case may be.
          (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
          (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
          (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this agreement.
