Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19901-PE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED
ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
FIRST PHASE OF THE
HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM
(Mother and Child Insurance and
Decentralization of Health Services)
November 22, 1999
Human Development Department
Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit = Nuevo Sal Sl.)
USSl.0 = S/2.36
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I to December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immuno-deficiency Syndrome
APL           Adaptable Program Lending
ARI           Acute Respiratory Infections
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CIS           Comite de Inversi6n de Salud
CLAS          Community-Managed Health Facilities (Comile Local de
Administraci6n de Salud)
DFID          Department for Intemational Development (Government of Great
Britain)
DGSP          OtfLce of the General Director of Health
DIGESA        Office of the General Director of Environmental Health (Direccidn
General de Salud A mbiental)
DISA          Direcci6n de Salud (Regional Health Board)
EDA           Acute Diarrheal Disease (Enfermedad Diarreica Aguda)
ENAHO         National Household Surv ey (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares)
ENDES         Demographic and Health Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Demografla y
Salud)
ESSALUD       Peruvian Social Security Institute (Formerly known as IPPS)
ESW           Economic and Sector Work
FARAH         Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FONCODES   Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo Social)
HNP           Health, Nutrition and Population Sector
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
INEI          National Statistics Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e
Infornatica)
INFES         Instituto Nacional de Infraestructura Educativa.y de Salud
INS           National Health Institute (Instituto Nacional de Salud)
LHP           Local Health Plans
MCH           Matemal and Child Health
MINPRE        Ministry of the Presidency (Ministerio de la Presidencia)-
MINSA         Ministry of Health (f.inisterio de Salud)
OGA           MINSA's General Administration Office (Oftcina General de
Administraci6n)
OGEI          MINSA Office of Statistics and Information (Oficina General de
Estadistica e Informatica)
OGP           MINSA's Planning Office (Oficina General de Planificaci6n)
OPEC FUND   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAAG-PAC    Programa de Acuerdos de Gesti6n - Programna de Administraci6n
Compartida
PACFO         Complementary Food Program (Programa de Alimentaci6n
Complementaria para Grupos en MVayor Riesgo)
PAHO          Pan American Health Organization
PARSALUD   Health Reform Program (Programa de la Reforma del Sector Salud)
PFSS          Strengthening Health Services Program (Programa Fortalecimiento de
los Servicios de Salud)
PSNB          Basic Health and Nutrition Project (Proyecto Saludy Nutrici6n Bdsica)
PSPBT         Basic Health for All Program (Programa Salud Bdsica para Todos)
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SEPS          Superintendencia de Entidades Prestadoras de Salud
SERUM         Intern Service in Rural and Urban Marginal Areas (Servicio Ruraly
Urbano Marginal)
SMI           Maternal-Child Insurance (Seguro Materno Infantil)
SOE           Statement of Expenses
UNOPS         United Nations Operations Services
PMR           Project Management Reports
Vice President:           David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  Xavier Coll
Team Leader:              Evangeline Javier



Peru
Health Reform Program
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective .........................................................2
1. Program   purpose and program   phasing .................................................................                              2
2. Project development objective .................................................................3
B. Strategic Context .................................................................4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........4
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................4
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices .................................9
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................                                                      10
1. Project components ................................................................                                                  10
2. Key policy  and  institutional reforms to  be sought ........................................................ 11
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                                      12
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 12
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                 17
1. Project altematives considered  and reasons for rejection .............................................. 17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........1  8
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in project design ............................................................ 18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................... 19
S. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................ 19
E. Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                         19
1. Economic ..........................................................                                                                  20
2. Financial ..........................................................                                                                  20
3. Technical ..........................................................                                                                 21
4. Institutional ..........................................................                                                              21
5. Social .........................                                                           ;                                         21
6. Environmental assessment .22
7. Participatory approach .22
F. Sustainability and Risks .23
1. Sustainability .23
2. Critical Risks .23
iv



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                               24
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                       25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                      25
Annexes
Annex I      Project Design Summary
Annex 1 a:    Trigger Indicators
Annex 2a.    Project Description
Annex 2b.    Project Management and Operational Manual
Annex 3      Structure of the MINSA Budget
Annex 4      Communicable Diseases in the Regions
Annex 5      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 6      Financial Summary
Annex 7      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 8      Benefit Incidence of Health Expenditures
Annex 9      Participation and Social Communication Strategies
Annex 10     Letter of Sector Policy from the Government of Perui
Annex 11     Project Processing Schedule
Annex 12     Documents in the Project files
Annex 13     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 14     Country at a Glance
v



PERU
First Phase of the Health Reform Program
(Mother and Child Insurance and
Decentralization of Health Services)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru (LCC6C) and
Human Development Department (LCSHD)
Date: November 22, 1999                            Team Leader: Evangeline P. Javier
Country Manager/Direc6or: Isabel Guerrero          Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: P062932                                Sector: HNP
Lending Instrument: APL                            Theme(s): Human Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [XI Yes  [ ] No
Program Fincing'DaE
APL             IndicativeFinancing Plan          Estimated Implementaon   .orrower
_______________    ________  _____  __       Period    (13ank  mY)  _  _  _ _   __i
IBRD         Others      Total    Commitment    Closing
US$ m    Perce   US $ m     US $ m        Date          Date
ntI
APL I         80       33       159.3      2393       FY2000        FY2004           Republic of Peru
Loan/
Credit
APL 2         50       30       122.0      172.0      FY2004        FY2007           Republic of Peru
Loan/
Credit           ___ L__
APL 3         50       40        78.0      128.0      FY2007        FY201O           Republic of Peru
Loan/
Credit___________________________________________
Project Financing Data
[ X] Loan
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$80 m for APL l; US$180 m for full program
Proposed terms:       [X] Single Currency  D
Grace period (years):             5
Years to maturity:                17
Commitment fee (%):               0.75
Service charge:
Front-end Fee (%):               1
Financing plan:
Source                                                    Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                52.5               11.8              64.3
Bank                                                      64.0              16.0               80.0
Other: IDB, DFID, OPEC FUND                               78.0               17.0              95.0
Total:                                                   194.5               44.8             239.3
Borrower: Republic of Peru
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2000          2001         2002         2003         2004
Annual       3.0          22.0         30.0         18.0          7.0
Cumulative       3.0         25.0         55.0          73.0         80.0
Project implementation period: 3 1/2 years
Expected effectiveness date: February 2000            Expected closing date: December 2003
Implementing agencies: Ministry of Health
Contact person: Mr. Alvaro Gaillour, Director, PARSALUD
Address: Avenida Salaverry, Cuadra 8, Jesus Maria, Lima-Peru
Tel: (511) 424-9228           Fax: (511) 432-6177             E-mail: agaillour@minsa.gob.pe
OCS APL PAD Form: November 4, 1998



Peru: Health Reform Procram (PARSALUD)                                                                  Page 2
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing: (see Annex 1)
The medium-term goals of the 10 year Health Reform Program are to: (a) improve maternal and child
health (i.e. reduce peri-natal, infant and child morbidity and mortality); and (b) help reduce morbidity
and deaths of the poor from communicable diseases and inadequate environmental conditions. These
goals will be achieved through increasing the access of the poor to, and improving the quality and
efficiency of, health systems in Peru.
Health Reform Vision. At the end of the ten year reform period it is envisioned that the Peruvian
population will have universal access to health services through better targeting of public health
expenditures, more efficient utilization of resources, prioritization of cost-effective interventions and
better articulation of public and private health insurance systems and service provision. The reform
vision is encapsulated in the table below:
CATEGORIES         l     ,      2HE;LuALTh    }.SUBI ED- GRU     'O~RBTN  GROUPSiEi d'0|
Population         Universal              Poor population         Population with the ability to
coverage                                                          pay (dependent workers and
retirees, independent
workers, and professionals)
Benefit plan       Public health          Guaranteed Health Plan    Social and private Insurance
interventions (public  (which starts with Seguro  requiring individual or family
well-being, interventions   Materno Infantil and  contribution. The Social
with high externalities)    Seguro Escolar)    Security Modernization Law
offers the basis for a
competitive social insurance
environment
Financing Health    Public Treasury       Public treasury and own    Contribution of affiliates
Demand                                    revenue. Possible
evolution of a National
Health Fund
Provision of Health   Responsibility of the  Public & private establishment, including community-
Supply             State which can        managed health services (CLAS) organized in a service
delegate the execution    network operating by means of contracting mechanisms
to other entities      (contracts or management agreements)
The Health Reform Program is proposed to be supported by a ten-year Adaptable Program Loan (APL).
Other agencies such as the IDB and bilateral donors will also be contributing to the financial requirements
of the reform program. During the ten-year period, the APL will help finance the design, pilot-testing and
launching of policy and institutional reforms, as well as investments necessary to pursue the following
strategies:
i.  guarantee the access of the poor population groups to a wide range of health promotion and disease
prevention programs and services including women's reproductive health, child health, nutrition,
clean water and sanitation, food safety, and appropriate interventions to prevent/treat communicable
diseases;
ii.  reduce economic and cultural barriers to utilization of, and participation in, the health system;
iii.  improve the quality and efficiency of health care services by developing integrated health care
networks; stimulating community participation in the management of health promoting
programs; and progressive optimization of the use of public and private health financing and service
provision; and



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                Page 3
iv. assist in the decentralization of primary care services to the municipalities and communities, as
well as develop and pilot-test other policy and institutional reforms incorporated in the
govemment's APL policy letter to the Bank.
Program Phasing. The APL would have three phases, lasting approximately three years to three and half
years each. Each phase will tackle progressively more complicated issues in the sector and will adjust
the path of systemic reforms based on lessons of experiences of previous phases and other operations in
Peru.
Phase I (FY2000-FY2004, US$80 million equivalent): This phase will highlight the policies and
instruments that will improve the access of the poor to health-promoting programs and services while
preparing the analytical work and sensitizing stakeholders to more complex systemic reforms. Focus will
be on developing a system for "health subsidies to follow the demand" of poor mothers and children,
strengthening decentralization through participation of municipalities and communities in health
decisions, and streamlining overlapping health programs.
Phase II (FY2004-FY2007, US$50 million equivalent): Apart from continuing/adjusting Phase I reforms,
this phase will tackle the issues of health insurance (public and private), health manpower, and autonomy
of hospitals. Recommendations of preparatory studies and sensitization workshops from Phase I will be
implemented. Strengthening of municipalization of primary health services administration will likely be
an issue that will continue from Phase I actions.
Phase III (FY2007-FY2010, US$50 million equivalent): This phase will consolidate the lessons of
experience from previous two phases. Issues to tackle will likely consist of: continued public hospital
reforms; continued strengthening of health care networks; unification of various health insurance
schemes; and chronic adult health problems.
The Govemment's health reform objectives and strategies are presented in the attached APL policy letter
(Annex 10). The medium-term development targets, as well as the trigger indicators to initiate Phase II
are presented in more detail in Annexes I and 1 a.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Phase I of the APL aims to contribute to the above medium-term health goals of the Reform Program
specifically by increasing the access of the poor to better quality health programs and services. The
focus of Phase I will be on empowering the poor - i.e. strengthening the demand side - while improving
the quality of the supply side of health programs and services. At the operational level, this objective
translates to the following sub-goals:
(a) reducing the economic barriers to utilization of health services primarily through the
implementation of Seguro Matemo Infantil (SMI);
(b) enhancing the decentralization of the health system through: (i) increased participation of
communities (through the CLAS), municipalities and local health entities in planning,
management and monitoring of health programs and services; and (ii) redefining the role of
the Ministry of Health (M1NSA) including streamlining its mother, child and environmental
health programs; and
(c) adapting investments to local health problems particularly to cultural aspects of health
promotion, and service utilization, as well as prevalence of communicable diseases and
environmental health problems;



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                   Paae 4
The proposed APL will complement a Poverty Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), presently under
preparation, which seeks to strengthen the reform dialogue in most of the social sectors. The Poverty
SAL ensures that policy decision makers at the macroeconomic level become actively involved in the
decisions being sought in the social sectors. The health conditionalities in the Poverty SAL will be
implemented with the financing of this APL.
3. Key Performance Indicators: (See Annex 1)
The program goal indicators include reduction in infant and peri-natal mortality rates between 2000 to
2010. The key intermediary outcome indicators for the first phase include: the number of births in the
project area attended by skilled health personnel, number of pregnant women with 4 or more pre-natal
care, number of intended beneficiaries receiving care in the primary care facilities of MINSA, as well as a
few indicators related to the health status of children (e.g. coverage of DPT3 immunization, number of
child cases of acute respiratory infection and acute diarrhea attended). Specific targets are shown in
Annex 1. The sector reform strategies to achieve these goals are described below. The indicators and
targets of the program goals are shown in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: R97-161               Date of latest CAS discussion: -July 22, 1997
The proposed project would support the CAS' objective of reducing poverty and improving Peru's human
capital base. As envisaged in the CAS, the medium-term sector reforms to be supported by the APL
would help to reconfigure the health system, promote integration of public and private services within a
decentralized context, and reallocate health expenditures to basic health care for the poor.
The proposed project is also fully consistent with the World Bank's Strategy in the HNP Sector as set
forth in the Sector Strategy Paper: Health, Nutrition and Population Sector (HNP SAS) of September,
1997. Specifically, the policy advice and financial support to be provided under the proposed project
would help operationalize approaches to the three major HNP development priorities described in the
SAS: (i) improve the health, nutrition and reproductive outcomes of the Peruvian poor, and protect other
segments of the population from the effects of illness, malnutrition, and high fertility; (ii) enhance the
performance of health care systems by promoting equitable access to preventive and curative care,
particularly maternal and child health care, that are affordable, effective, efficient, of good quality, and
responsive to clients; and (iii) secure sustainable health care financing by mobilizing adequate levels of
financial resources and by improving resource allocation and utilization.
The proposed project is an operational follow-up to the recommendations of the health sector report
entitled "Peru: Improving Health Care of the Poor" (Report No. 18549-PE) as well as MINSA's
analytical work on the reforms needed in the health sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:'
Among the many challenges facing the Peruvian health sector today, this project (Phase I) will address
specifically the following: (a) low health status of the poor; (b) inequitable access to health; (c) limited
financing and weak targeting of health expenditures; and (d) sector fragmentation.  Policy and
institutional reform decisions to address these issues (discussed in more detail below) are incorporated in
the Poverty SAL and financial assistance to implement the changes will be provided by the proposed
' Information in this section was taken from the sector report entitled Peru: Improving Health Care for the Poor.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                       Page 5
project. Specific issues related to health insurance, health manpower and hospital subsector efficiency are
all important elements in improving equitable access and efficient delivery of services. However, because
of their complex nature and political sensitivity especially in a presidential election period, these reforms
will be fully addressed in Phase II. Preparatory analytical work and sensitization workshops with
stakeholders will be carried out under Phase I.
a. Poverty and Low Health Status: Peru is a country of 23.7 million people, half of whom are poor,
with a growth rate of 1.9 percent and strong rural to urban migration. In 1993, the country was 70 percent
urban. However, of the 11 million estimated poor in Peru, 60 percent reside in the primarily rural sierra
and jungle regions.
Peru's infant and child mortality indicators showed notable progress since 1990 due to increased incomes,
significant investments in water and sanitation, complemented by improved immunization and effective
control of diarrheal infections. Malnutrition rates have decreased substantially in urban and rural areas.
Stunting of children under age five has fallen in rural areas from 53percent in 1991 to 40 percent in 1996,
and from 26 percent to 16 percent in urban areas.2
However, Peru's very high infant mortality rate (IMR) is still an outlier in Latin America for a country
with its level of income. Peru's IMR in 1996 (43 per 1,000 live births) is among the worst in the region:
Ecuador, Guatemala and Nicaragua at 47 per 1,000 live births, and Bolivia at 75 per 1,000 live births.
Progress between 1990 to 1996 was achieved mostly in post-neonatal mortality (35percent drop from
1990-1996); much less was achieved in neo-natal3 (1 7percent drop) or in maternal mortality (1 Ipercent
drop). The chief causes of infant mortality are: perinatal4 illnesses (31.8 percent) and infectious diseases
(including ARIs, EDAs, and other bacterial illnesses), which together account for one-third of the deaths
of children under one year of age.
The maternal mortality rate for 1990-95 of 265 deaths for 100,000 births is almost one and half times
higher than the LAC average and is 15 times the average for developed countries. The chief causes of
maternal mortality-hemorrhage (23 percent), mishandled abortions (22 percent), infections (18 percent),
and hypertension (17 percent) --- suggest that much of the problem lies in inadequate conditions at the
time of birth, both at home and in the hospital. Coverage of births by skilled health workers remains at
around one-half of the total; in rural areas, professional birth attendance is only 22 percent. Perinatal
mortality is related in large part to inadequate conditions in labor and delivery, but also to poor maternal
obstetrical, medical, and nutritional antecedents that result in prematurity, low birth weight, or other
severe morbidity in the newborn if needed interventions are not available.
Over the last decade there has been a resurgence of communicable diseases which affect the poor to a
greater extent than the rest of the population (see Annex 4 for discussion of communicable disease
problems in the regions). On the increase are: malaria of the Falciparum variety; the development of
multi-drug resistance to tuberculosis; yellow fever, dengue, cholera, rabies and the appearance of
HIV/AIDS. Peru's diverse geographic, climatic, social and cultural conditions make the country
particularly vulnerable to many of these diseases. This vulnerability has also increased because of long-
term structural change in the environment and in the economy (e.g. ecological changes created by
deforestation; increased migration into the Amazon in search of new economic opportunities; increased
contacts with the population of neighboring countries; misuse of antibiotics and other anti-microbial
drugs; and cyclical changes in climate and weather (especially as regards the spike in vector-born and
infectious diseases in 1998 related to the El Nino phenomena).
b. Inequitable Access to Health: A large gap between the health status of the poor and that of the non-
poor continues to exist in Peru. The highest mortality rates are concentrated among the poorer 40 percent
' ENDES 1991 and 1996. ENNIV, using a different methodology also found a substantial improvement in malnutrition between 1994 and 1997.
3 Neo-natal refers to conditions affecting an infant during the first month after birth.
' Peri-natal refers to conditions affecting an infant around the time of birth



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                 Paae 6
of the population, where almost 60 percent of child deaths occur. Poor households are handicapped by a
combination of low education and worse environmental conditions. They also have less access to some
key health services. Studies also showed that communicable diseases account for almost half of deaths inF
the poorest quintile compared with about a fifth of deaths for the richest quintile. Non-communicable
diseases are correspondingly less important for the poor.
Access to key child health interventions, which are provided free of charge and with monitored target
coverage, such as vaccinations and appropriately treated diarrhea, have expanded and is fairly
homogeneous across income levels. By contrast, the poor continue not to have access to services provided
on demand. These services are more complex in terms of equipment, supplies, technical capability,
counseling needs, and continuing patient follow-up, such as safe obstetrical and postpartum interventions,
which impact on maternal and perinatal mortality.
The extremely low levels of use of health services by mothers are partly a reflection of high economic
barriers, ethnic and cultural barriers, combined with low levels of female education. The cost of medical
attention is a deterrent for the poor. While tariffs for services in public establishments are generally
affordable, drugs and medical inputs are charged to the user at full cost plus a mark-up. Among the
poorest 20 percent these items represent more than 80 percent of out-of-pocket health expenditures. The
cultural barrier in rural areas is heavily reinforced by staff that remain unprepared to deal with poor
indigenous women, who especially object to unaccommodating birthing conditions and fear various other
aspects of institutional care. While the coverage of modem contraception has increased from 33 percent to
44 percent, little progress has been made among women with low levels of education who have the
highest fertility rates and associated highest risk of maternal death.
Many of the poor live in rural areas and the vulnerability created by poverty and poor nutrition is
accentuated by the problems of access to health services and by the environmental challenges in these
areas. Despite some progress in expanding rural water and sanitation, only 22 percent of the rural
population has access to safe water, as compared to 78 percent of the urban population. Unsanitary
conditions for food, waste and other forms of pollution are rapidly rising in peri-urban and rural areas and
there is no concerted effort to confront this.
c. Low Level and Weak Targeting of Health Expenditures: Peru continues to allocate fewer resources
to health than most of its neighbors. The proportion of GDP assigned to health, -4. 1percent in 1997- is
about two thirds of the Latin American average. Per capita expenditures in health, at U$90 per capita in
1997, are also about half of the Latin American average. The ratio of physicians to the population, -10 per
10,000- is only 70 percent of the Latin American average. Total health expenditures are around US$2.7
billion per year divided in equal parts between the private and public sectors. Approximately half of the
public expenditures are channeled by M1NSA, which assigns about a fifth of that to primary health care.
There is also great inequality in the consumption of health goods and services. Per capita consumption of
health goods and services is approximately 4.5 times higher among the richest 20 percent of the population
than among the poorest 20 percent. Whereas much of that difference is to be explained by greater amounts
of private expenditure on health care by the rich, it is only partially offset by MINSA, which should be
serving the poor. A benefit incidence analysis using household surveys for 1997 show that MINSA
expenditures per capita benefit households of higher and lower incomes to a similar degree, instead of
concentrating on the poor. Likewise, the poor receive a larger proportion of the expenditure in primary
health clinics than they do from hospital services. To date there have been no attempts to direct the public
hospitals, which at present function in a semi-commercial way, to provide more services to the poor.
MINSA operates special health programs which are fairly well targeted to the poor (based on their
geographic allocation and strong focus on communicable diseases) and compensate partially for the pro-
rich bias of the core public health budget (see Annex 3 for structure of MINSA budget). These special
programs include: (i) Proyecto Salud Basica Para Todos (PSBPT) - with a budget of US$100 million per



Peru: Health Reform Prooram (PARSALUD)                                                Paae 7
year - to pay for health workers in most of the primary health clinics; (ii) the SERUM program to
encourage doctors and nurses to work in low-income neighborhoods; (iii) PACFO (Programa de
Alimentacion Complimentaria) channels around US$35 million per year for food supplements to 5 of the-
7 poorest departments; (iv) family planning with funding of about US$15 million; (vi) Seguro Escolar
created in 1997 with a budget of about US$35 million to reimburse services to school children according
to demand; and (vii) foreign-financed health projects (such as the Bank's PSNB and the IDB's PFSS).
d. Sector Fragmentation: Peru's health system is a complex amalgam of several public programs and a
private sector, each of which tends to go its own way, with little coordination or competition between
program providers, in either financing or delivery of services. The main public programs are: MINSA,
financed by tax revenues and co-payments by users; and the Social Security Institute (formerly known as
IPSS, currently ESSALUD), financed by a 9 percent payroll tax and theoretically covering all the health
care needs of its formal-sector contributors.  The private sector is financed almost entirely by
out-of-pocket expenditures by households, as private insurance coverage is very small and the public
programs (with very few exceptions) do not purchase services from private providers.
Except for the Lima region, where MINSA's central office is responsible for the financing and provision
of health services, regional health authorities are appointed by and accountable to the Ministry of the
Presidency (MINPRE). The regional health budgets are included in the MINPRE budget (see Annex 3).
In practice, despite its normative role, MINSA has little influence over activities financed through
MINPRE. Special health programs, as described above, have provided a way to influence the regions to
follow national priorities, but the solution is only temporary. However, this situation shall change
beginning the year 2000 when the MINSA budget will incorporate all of the DISA annual budget.
There is also fragmentation and duplication within MINSA. The problem is especially acute for
interventions in maternal and child health, nutrition, and environmental health, none of which has a clear
structure for policy or planning. In July 1999, the Direcci6n General de Salud de las Personas (DGSP)
completed a draft plan to streamline eight national programs related to mother and child health
(immunizations, child growth and development, diarrhea and cholera, acute respiratory infections,
matemal-perinatal health, family planning, school-age/adolescent health, micronutrient deficiency
prevention, and HIV-AID/STD). The implementation of this plan will be supported by the proposed
project. A plan to clarify the roles of various agencies involved in environmental health is also being
prepared.
The weakness of the information on health service production in Peru is striking. There is no attempt to
consolidate information about financial flows or production services for the public sector. No agency
collects or monitors information about expenditures incurred by all MINSA providers, or by all MINSA
programs, or even by all externally funded programs.5 Production statistics are no longer collected and
published regularly. There is no official source for inpatient consultations. Each program produces its own
data and there are few serious attempts to consolidate it in a way that would allow monitoring of activities at
an aggregate level (e.g. vector control activities, nutrition activities, even laboratory production are
measured by different programs in ways that cannot be aggregated or compared).
e. Misalignment of Hospital Service Utilization. Unmet needs and congestion of some services coexist
with a surprisingly low level of hospital utilization. Nationally, only 52 percent of bed-days are utilized.
Much of this problem arises from duplication, as MINSA's underutilized hospitals stand along side
ESSALUD's underutilized hospitals in 20 departmental capitals. Eleven of these areas also have a
military or police hospital. Despite these figures, however, most high-complexity hospitals are busy, such
as ESSALUD's highest complexity hospitals in Lima which average over 90 percent occupancy, and
MINSA's highest complexity hospitals (such as Lima's Cancer hospital). Some hospitals requiring long-
s There exists an ongoing effort to produce national health accounts attempting to overcome the technical weaknesses of previous efforts.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                             Page 8
term stay remain busy (e.g., MINSA's mental illness and rehabilitation hospitals), as do emergency
hospitals and Lima's maternity hospital.
Government Stratey:
Central to the Government's medium-term strategic vision for the health sector is to guarantee a basic
health care package for all, with particular focus on the high-risk poor populations. In line with this
vision, the Government has initiated some reforms intended to increase access to, as well as the quality
and efficiency of health programs. A package of legal reforms and other recent actions are introducing
separation of financing from the provision of basic services, decentralization of health service provision,
and incentives for private competition in the provision of health insurance.
Legal Reforms. In 1997 the Government passed two laws to launch formally the sector reforms, i.e., the
Ley General de Salud and the Ley de Modernizacion de Seguridad Social en Salud. The Ley General de
Salud provides the normative scope for the sector, and includes the establishment of users' rights, so that
they are recognized by the public and respected by service providers. The Ley de Modernizacion de
Seguridad Social eliminates ESSALUD's monopoly on service delivery, instead allowing competition
with other providers, including the private sector, and a greater degree of user selection. This law also
created SEPS (Superintendencia de Entidades Prestadoras de Salud), one of the five decentralized public
organisms under MINSA, and the one responsible for regulating health care providers-processing
authorizations and processing information related to their organization and operation. The challenge is
now to translate all these legal measures into actions.
Overcoming Economic Barriers. IMINSA has begun to launch some initiatives to increase access of the
poor to health services. The Seguro Escolar was created in 1997 to provide free health services and
medicines for all children who attend public schools (around 6 million). MINSA has also piloted a
Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI) - a reimbursement mechanism that will pay providers for a package of
essential services for mothers and children under 3 years of age (those between 4 and 17 are covered by
the Seguro Escolar) in Tacna and Moyobamba. The results of this pilot have been taken into account in
refining the design of the SMI as described in Annex 2a. These seguros publicos provide the seed for a
guaranteed basic health package for the poor in the future.
Decentralization and Community Participation in Health Provision. To quickly respond to primary care
needs of communities, MINSA plans to expand the implementation of the Shared Administration
Program through CLAS (Comites Locales de Administracion de Salud) all over Peru, thus providing a
good start for progressive decentralization of basic health care. CLAS, initiated in 1994, are private, non-
profit entities which, by virtue of a contract with the DISA, receive, and administer public treasury funds
to provide health services through a health center or post (see detailed description and analysis of CLAS
in Annex 2a). Their functions are to work with health providers to develop a local health plan (LHP),
define the budget to implement the plan, and monitor expenditures and the provision of health services to
the community. The objective of CLAS is to improve the quality and coverage of ambulatory services at
the primary health level through greater participation by the community in planning, administration,
management, and supervision of public resources. The DISA-CLAS contract holds the CLAS liable for
implementation of the LHP, a responsibility that empowers it to exert social control over budget
allocations within the health facility. This also allows social control over the day-to-day work of health
personnel in terms of quality of care and completion of other work requirements. Since its inception in
1994, the program has grown to incorporate about 14 percent of all primary care facilities in the country
(855 of approximately 6000 health centers and posts), and has proven itself to be a viable and
advantageous form of health care organization.
In July 1999, President Fujimori announced the Government's decision to transfer the responsibility of
primary health care service delivery to the municipalities within the next four years. The Decentralization
law is in the process of being drafted and thus, scanty details of what it would contain currently exist. In



Peru: Health Reforrn Program (PARSALUD)                                               Paae 9
the meantime, MINSA will require technical assistance to learn from the experiences and lessons already
learned by other Latin American countries in the decentralization of health services. This assistance will
need to be initiated soon before MINSA begins to draft the regulatory measures of the municipalization of-
primary services.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project, i.e., the first phase of the APL, will provide technical assistance and investment financing
support to address the following issues:
(a) the economic and cultural barriers to increased utilization of health services;
(b) the need to raise the quality of basic health services and to adapt them to local health
priorities;
(c) the need to strengthen the normative role of MINSA (including streamlining the MCH and
environmental health programs) and the local entities' service administration and delivery; and
(d) the need to better understand the issues and required reforms related to MINSA/ESSALUD
provider/purchasing functions; insurance schemes, and health manpower skills problems.
The first phase of the APL will thus focus on issues related to the poor health outcomes of mothers and
children and the poor who have higher exposure to the risks of communicable diseases and limited access
to effective medical care. It will assist in implementing interventions (such as the SMI and CLAS-
managed local health plans) that will increase the effective demand and empowernent of women,
especially of indigenous women, to seek appropriate health care. It will help develop an investment
allocation mechanism that will put high priority on interventions adapted to local health needs and
cultural practices. Eligible investments will include not only those related to health facilities but also
those that will promote better health and prevent diseases prevalent in the local area. Integrated health
care networks will be developed in place of the fragmented delivery of health care programs with MINSA
exercising a normative and supervisory role. The acceleration of transforming public primary clinics to
community-run CLAS in the project areas will be some of the immediate key activities to be carried out
under the project.
Cognizant of the multidimensional and cross-sectoral approach necessary to improve and maintain the
population's health, the Bank's assistance strategy to Peru for the next three years includes operations in
rural education, rural water supply, rural roads, and an indigenous population development project. The
APL activities will be closely coordinated with these operations as well as those currently under
implementation (such as FONCODES). In the case of water and sanitation, a three-pronged strategy will
be adopted: (a) the rural water supply project under preparation will put priority on providing investments
in the project areas receiving the SMI interventions (discussions along this line are in progress with the
water supply team); (b) finance under the investment component of the proposed APL the quality
improvement of existing water supply systems (e.g. chlorination) in the households and health
establishments in the project areas; and (c) finance, on an exceptional basis, community level water and
sanitation projects in rural areas not reached immediately by other projects or donor financing. The
financing of community water and sanitation investment, when needed, will be guided by eligibility and
selection criteria spelled out in the Operations Manual.
As mentioned earlier, other challenges facing the health sector (health insurance issues, hospital internal
inefficiencies and health manpower, among others) will be subject of analysis in Phase I. Piloting, and as
appropriate, nationwide implementation of required reforms addressing these issues will be implemented
in Phase II of the APL.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                             Paae 10
4. Program Description and Performance Triggers for Subsequent Loans:
The program description and phasing are described in paragraph 1 above. The performance triggers for
subsequent loans are described in Annex 1 a.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2a for a detailed description and Annex 5 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The total cost of the first phase of the reform program is estimated at US$239 million of which the Bank
would contribute US$80 million ( 6 for financing breakdown). The first phase of the APL will finance
the following project components.
I. Strengthening Health Demand:
The main instrument will be the implementation of the Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI) to benefit the
low income mothers and children especially from the poorest rural areas of Peru. The Loan will finance:
(i) the reimbursements for services provided by eligible health facilities under the Seguro Materno
Infantil in the project areas; (ii) SMI administration at the central level (MINSA) and at the local level
DISAs; and (iii) monitoring/evaluation of SMI implementation activities.
XI. Strengthening Decentralization, Policy Development and Institutional Modernization:
(i). Technical Assistance for Decentralization:
(a) CLAS Expansion and Empowerment of Communities: The Loan will finance community
orientation to facilitate democratic election processes for CLAS formation; strengthening of CLAS
management; strengthening of community capabilities to participate in all phases of development,
implementation and monitoring of local health plans, among others.
(b) Strengthening Capacity of Municipalities and DISAs: The Loan will finance actions
required to support the formulation and implementation of the regional health plans, elaboration of
investment proposals, and strengthening of municipalities' role in primary health care
administration.
(ii). Reorientation of the Role of M1NSA and Public/Private Health Providers: The Loan will
finance the improvement of DGSP's normative role including. streamlining of mother and child health
programs; strengthening strategic planning and budgetary process in OGP; streamlining of environmental
health programs; and development of studies, workshops and action plans related to second generation
reforms - (e.g. payment mechanisms and contracting of services between MINSA and ESSALUD
facilities, public/private insurance schemes articulation, as well as health manpower skills mix and
incentives to better serve poverty-oriented programs).
(iii). Monitoring and Evaluation : The Loan will support the conversion of MINSA's information
system to an effective instrument for monitoring and evaluation, including the distributional effects of
health programs and services. Activities will include financing of ENDES and the ENAHO health
modules. DFID will finance the design and implementation of related social monitoring activities.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                 Page 11
III. Improving the Quality of Health Programs and Services:
The main instrument will be investment support for the regional/local health plans. This will consist
of financing investment subprojects addressing the health priorities of the regional departments (such
as investment and technical assistance for integrated health interventions to support the SMI; health
education; improving quality of existing water and sanitation services; community water provision in
areas where there are no other sources of financing; area requirement for diagnostic and testing of vector-
borne diseases of malaria, yellow fever, and dengue, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and tuberculosis.
IV. Project Coordination Support:
The loan will finance part of project administration which includes operating costs of the Unidad de
Coordinacion del Proyecto (Project Coordination Unit, UCP)
Component                       Indicative   % of Total   Bank-     % of
Costs               financing    Bank-
(US$M)                fUS$M)   fmancine
I. Strengthening Health Demand:                        149.0      62.3%       55.0     68.8%
Implementation of the Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI)
IL Strengthening Decentralization, Policy Development  22.8        9.5%       7.0       8.8%
and Institutional Modernization
A. Technical Assistance for Decentralization:
(i) CLAS Expansion and Empowerment of Communities; (ii)
Strengthening Capacity of Municipalities and DISAs:
B. Reorientation of the Role of M1NSA and Public/Private
Health Providers
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
49.0      20.5%       16.0      20.0%
III. Improving the Quality of Health Programs and
Services : Investment Support for the Regional/Local Health
Plans
IV. Project Coordination                                8.0        3.3%       1.2       1.5%
LoAN FEE                                 10.51      4.4%        0.8       1.0%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      239.3      100.0%      80.0    100.0%
US$9.7 million ot this amount is interest payment for IDB Loan
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
In line with the government's strategic vision for the sector, the project (Phase I of the APL) will support
the implementation of the following policy decisions: (a) creation and implementation of the SMI; (b)
improvement of maternal and child health services in health facilities and hospitals where the SMI will be
implemented; (c) expansion of the CLAS; (d) streamlining of the mother and child programs; and (d)
streamlining of the environmental health programs. In fact, the ongoing Poverty SAL dialogue has
already resulted in front-loading some policy decisions from MINSA. Ministerial Resolution No. 448-



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                             Paae 12
99-SA was issued on September 15, 1999 creating the SMI in MINSA and expanding the SMI
implementation to seven health departments. Plans for expansion of the SMI and CLAS to different
regions in the country have been submitted to the Bank. And, the streamlining plans for the mother and
child programs, as well as for environmental health programs in MINSA have also been sent to the Bank.
The APL will finance the investments and technical assistance required to implement these plans.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Task Force that will guide the implementation of
the streamlining plan for the mother and child prograns in MINSA will be established no later than one
month after the loan effectiveness date.
3. Benefits and target population:
The bulk of the Bank loan during the first phase of the APL will finance the implementation of SMI and
its corollary investment requirements in 10 geographic areas. During the period 2000-2003, the direct
beneficiaries of the SMI are estimated to total 815,000 pregnant mothers and 1,990,000 under-4 year old
children in the 10 departments covered by the Bank Loan. The Bank project areas are the Departments of
Puno, Apurimac, Cajamarca, Cuzco, Lambayeque, Piura, Tumbes, La Libertad, Madre de Dios, Lima
6
Norte and Lima Sur. Most of the technical assistance for policy and institutional development, which
will have a national scope and will reinforce the decentralization process, will benefit municipalities, local
health departments, and communities participating in CLAS expansion.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: (see Annex 2b for a detailed description)
Implementation period: 3 1/2 years (APL I)
Executing agencies: The Ministry of Health (MINSA) and the Health Departments in the regions
(Direcciones de Salud or DISAs) would carry out the project in accordance with Operations Manuals
satisfactory to the Bank. MINSA will carry out project activities through its existing units, in accordance
with their area of responsibility, including the SMI Unit which has been created under the project (see
Annex 2a for description of these units' project responsibilities). MINSA will enter into implementation
contracts (contratos de ejecucion) with participating DISAs and with other eligible entities (INEI) to carry
out project activities. The contracting arrangements are set out in the Operations Manual.
Project Coordination. The Ministry would be assisted by a UCP responsible for overall coordination,
supervision and monitoring of project implementation. The Unit would be directly accountable to
MINSA's Alta Direccion (the Minister of Health and the Vice Minister of Health). The Unit will be
headed by a General Coordinator (Director) and will count on an Administrative-Financial Coordinator, a
Technical Coordinator and a total staff of not more than ten. The Unit's General Coordinator was
appointed by the Minister in time for the negotiations of the Loan. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the UCP will be maintained with a streamlined organizational structure satisfactory to
the Bank.
The Unit would supervise the procurement processes for goods, services and civil works that would be
carried out at the DISA level and other eligible entities. The Unit would also carry out procurement of
goods and services if these are not subcontracted to DISAs or any other agency for execution. As
appropriate, the Unit would carry out the invitation and evaluation of bids or may subcontract the
process to a qualified procurement agents which would be chosen through a competitive process.
Similarly, it may use the services of INFES, the state civil works agency, for the procurement of large
national civil works. Detailed procedures for each case would be specified in the Operations Manual.
Regardless of size, contracting would be undertaken for civil works, goods, and consultants, using
procurement procedures and standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. The Unit may retain
the services of PAHO for quality control and supervision in the delivery and installation of medical
equipment procured under the project.
6The IDB financing will benefit a similar total number of mothers and children in 17 other departnents of the
country in the next three years.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                            Page 13
SMI Implementation. An SMI Unit has been established within MINSA to coordinate and
supervise the implementation of the SMI. Regional SMI offices would be established in each of the-
participating departments to carry out local administrative functions. The SMI central unit will be
responsible for assuring that participating health facilities have the necessary equipment, stocks of
supplies and pharmaceuticals covered under the benefits package, for guaranteeing the quality and
provision of services presented for reimbursement and for presenting reimbursement requests to the UCP.
Each health care provider - either individually such as in case of CLAS or in groups through the head of
the service provider network or through the DISAs - would be responsible for procuring own inputs
which are widely available at the local level throughout Peru. The SMI regional offices would be
responsible for receiving, reviewing, and sending to the SMI central office the monthly reimbursement
requests and for solving any discrepancies on behalf of health facilities in their jurisdiction. Guidelines
on the quality control functions of the SMI regional offices are elaborated in the SMI regulations and
administrative manual. The SMI central unit would be responsible for consolidating requests at the
national level and instructing MINSA's OGA to send the reimbursements to the health care providers or
the DISA. The SMI central unit would also carry out the necessary start-up promotional activities,
training of DISAs and supervision of the SMI services in the field, including technical and financial
audits. The technical, normative functions (including training, supervision, monitoring, evaluation) for
mother and child health services will remain in the Ministry.
The SMI Unit will have autonomy to plan, program, supervise, control and monitor SMI budget
and expenditures similar to the flexibility and autonomy of the Seguro Escolar to carry out its operations.
The Unit would have a lean financial and service reimbursement structure composed of a central office in
Lima and a network of small offices located in each region of the country. The detailed functions and
responsibilities of the SMI central and regional offices are elaborated on in the SMI administrative
manual. The SMI will be headed by a Director appointed by the Minister of Health. It was agreed during
negotiations that the SMI Unit will be maintained with organization and functions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Technical Assistance for Decentralization, Policy Development and Institutional
Modernization. The technical assistance to be provided under this component to different entities within
MINSA, to the municipalities, DISAs, and CLAS networks or facilities will be coordinated by the UCP.
Terms of reference and decision on the consultant services or other types of technical support will be
prepared and/or decided by these entities. The UCP will carry out the contracting procedures in
accordance with Bank procurement norms. PAHO will provide technical assistance to selected DISAs in
the formulation of regional health plans, and as needed, in the supervision of these plans' implementation.
With regard to the monitoring and evaluation surveys, MINSA will sign an agreement with INEI to carry
out the DHS surveys in 2000 and 2003 and to include the health module in the quarterly household survey
(ENAHO). It was agreed during negotiations that MINSA will sign the agreement with INEI no later than
one month after the loan effectiveness date.
Investment Support for the Regional/Local Health Plans: The DISAs will be responsible for
the implementation of the health investment subprojects within the total indicative amount allocated to
each of them at the beginning of the project year. This indicative amount is set based on a targeting
formula which takes into account social and economic exclusion and maternal-infant mortality indicators
(see Annex 2a). The implementation agreement to be entered into between M1NSA and each of the DISA,
as well as the DISA's annual operating plan (based on the regional health plan) are conditions of
disbursement for health investment subprojects. Depending on project cost, the review and approval of
subprojects will either be at the central level (MINSA) or at the DISA level. Subprojects above the DISA
limits will be reviewed and approved by the Comite de Inversion de Salud (CIS) of MINSA. To carry out
project activities, each DISA will appoint at least a technical coordinator and a financial administrator.
Additionally, two technical specialists financed by the project will be assigned to each DISA to provide



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                Page 14
assistance in the preparation of local/regional investment plans and the formulation of investment
subprojects. Detailed procedures for these actions are elaborated on in the Operations Manuals.
Financing requests for an integrated set of health activities (proyectos integrales) identified in the
regional/local health plans will be given priority. It is expected that investment financing would be
required but not limited to the following types of subprojects:
a. Support for SMI: Rehabilitation and equipment of health posts and centers, rehabilitation of
obstetric services in first and second level referral facilities, training of health personnel to raise
their capacity, IEC, social communication campaigns and other types of promotional activities to
ensure beneficiary participation in the program and its cultural adequacy.
b. Nutrition: Community outreach programs and integrated nutritional education packages for
children and mothers to complement clinical services provided under the SMI program
c. Prevention and Treatment of Prevalent Communicable Diseases in the Local Area . Equipment,
inputs, training and social communication to increase the ability of local facilities for the early
detection and control of top priority communicable diseases identified in the health plans.
d. Environmental Health. Stationary and mobile laboratory equipment and inputs to increase the
ability for the early detection and control of food and water contamination in their communities,
particularly in food markets; purchase of hipochlorite 'production equipment and chlorine
measuring kits, training for their proper use by communities identified within the local health
plan as being at higher risk due to the incidence of gastrointestinal diseases; community water
subprojects in exceptional cases where there is no other immediate source of financing.
Eligibility criteria for investments would reflect both project development objectives and local and sector
priorities in these areas and be specified in the Operations Manual, along with appraisal criteria
(technical, economic, financal, social, environmental).
Operations Manuals. Th._ project would use Operations Manuals covering all aspects of project
implementation, including but not limited to: project components, organizational and management
structures, supervision and evaluation mechanisms; targeting and other criteria for resource allocation; a
menu of eligible investments; appraisal criteria for health subprojects, including measures to be taken to
ensure that the environment will not be negatively affected; procedures for the formulation of annual
operating plans; financial, accounting and auditing procedures; procurement procedures and standard
bidding documents. The draft Operations Manuals were reviewed during appraisal and negotiations. The
official adoption of the Operations Manuals (including the SMI administrative manual) by MINSA is a
condition of loan effectiveness. The first year draft annual operating plan (Plan Operativo Annual) and a
draft procurement plan reflecting the first year activities were also submitted to the Bank during
negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Project monitoring and evaluation will measure not only
procedures but also results, thereby allowing the project to learn.  A monitoring and evaluation
component will be developed as part of the project (see Annex 2a) to measure especially the project
intermediate and final outcomes. The UCP will be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation.
Progress reports, including monitoring indicators, will be sent by the UCP to the Bank every six months.
Monitoring of the coverage of health interventions will combine the use of administrative data
and of annual coverage surveys. The administrative data will be based on the existing information
system. This system is weak and will be modified and strengthened with project support (see monitoring
and evaluation component). As a complement to the administrative data, and in view of the proposed
renovation of the information systems, annual coverage surveys will also be supported by the project.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                            Page 15
The quarterly ENAHO (Encuesta nacional de hogares) includes a social sector module on the second
quarter of each year. This module will be strengthened with project support to provide annual
information on the coverage of key interventions. ENAHO includes data on incomes and will be used-
inter alia to produce yearly analysis of the distributional incidence of the impact of the project. The
administrative data covers exclusively the provision of services by MINSA, while the household surveys
cover services from all sources (the targets in Annex I use the administrative baseline and data). The
ENAHO survey will be implemented by INEI. As mentioned earlier, MINSA and INEI will sign
agreement satisfactory to the Bank to carry out a revised social sector module in the quarterly ENAHO.
Evaluation of the impact on health outcomes will be based on the Demographic and Health
survey (ENDES). There will be two surveys, the first, in 2000 will provide a baseline for project impact.
The second in year 2003 will measure progress in health conditions, including infant and maternal
mortality. This survey will also be implemented by INEI. The agreement between MINSA and INEI will
also cover the implementation of this survey.
With regard to the investment subprojects, annual ex-post evaluations using random samples of
concluded subprojects, as well as beneficiary assessments will be carried out. These annual ex-post and
beneficiary evaluations will include physical audits of a sample of investment subprojects, with size and
characteristics acceptable to the Bank. Project funds will be utilized for this purpose: recommendations
and lessons learned will be included in the following annual operating plan.
With the assistance of DFID, a participatory monitoring and evaluation approach (P&ME) will
also be established in the project. This approach would complement other evaluation and monitoring
activities and strengthen the capacity and skills of health providers and other stakeholders in participatory
methodologies for evaluation and monitoring. It will allow to bring stakeholders together to undertake a
process of analysis of the performance of maternal and child health activities, aid in the identification of
solutions mutually acceptable and responsive to the needs of beneficiaries. It will also provide feedback
about areas in which the project could be failing to achieve stakeholders expectations. Furthermore, these
skills will enhance future developments of the decentralization of health sector.
Procurement The procurement of works, goods and consultant services would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (dated January 1995, revised January and
August, 1996, September 1997 and January, 1999), and the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997, revised September 1997), as well as by the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. These procedures are detailed in Table A of Annex 7. The UCP will supervise all
procurement action under the project, based on agreed procurement procedures as defined in the
Operations Manual. The procurement section of the Operations Manual will include, in addition to the
procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used in each case, as well as contracts to
be awarded on the basis of quotations. Where no relevant standard contract exists, other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank shall be used. The supervision of procurement and hiring processes would be the
responsibility of the executing agencies (e.g. DISAs) and, as appropriate, by the UCP. UNOPS, PAHO
and other eligible procurement agents may be retained competitively by the UCP for the purposes of
carrying out international procurement actions on behalf of the project or for the provision of specialized
technical assistance services, and INFES, the state agency responsible for public works, may be retained
for carrying out the procurement of large national civil works, all under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. For the SMI component, small goods and sundry items to be used by non-public service
providers would be procured in accordance with established private sector practices; and those to be used
by public service providers shall be procured, as far as practicable, from qualified suppliers either in bulk
or through regional or local procurement procedures and in accordance with the SMI regulations.
A capacity assessment with an analysis of legal aspects, project management, organization and functions,
support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general procurement environment, private sector
assessment, and overall risk assessment was conducted for the proposed project. The assessment included



Peru: Health Reform Pro-gram (PARSALUD)                                            Paae 16
meetings with the UCP and with other officials from the Ministry of Health, the SMI, and the DISAs.
The project has been rated as "average risk" with respect to procurement aspects.  Specific
recommnendations from the capacity assessment have been incorporated in the Operations Manuals (see
Annex 2b for details). On the SMI component, it was agreed that an additional comprehensive review of
the institutional procurement procedures relating to the SMI program would be carried out during the first
six months of project implementation and that an action plan to strengthen these procedures would be
agreed upon as a result of that review.  Both the comprehensive procurement review and the
implementation of the action plan will be financed under the project. It was agreed also that periodic
independent medical audits would be carried out to monitor and evaluate the reimbursement applications
submitted by eligible health establishments and to determine whether the obligations of said
establishments under the SMI regulations have been fully complied with.
Accounting, Financial Reports, and Auditing For the purposes of carrying out the project an Special
Account would be opened and maintained in US Dollars at a commercial Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank with an authorized allocation of US$8.0 million. The advance to the Special
Account would be limited to US$3 million until disbursements from the loan would have reached US$7.0
million. Most of disbursements, including SMI reimbursements and investment subprojects, are expected
to be disbursed through SOEs (eventually through PMRs). For all other expenditures, e.g., contracts fo;
consultant services over threshold levels of US$50,000 with individuals or $80,000 with firms, full
supporting documentation would be required. The Special Account should be maintained in a commercial
bank in a way that satisfies the requirements. The UCP would be responsible for preparing Withdrawal
Applications (Was), and in charge of the Special Account. Documentation supporting SOEs and WAs
would be retained by the UCP in Lima and made available for examination by Bank staff during project
supervision missions. Documentation would also be made available to the independent auditors. The
UCP has gained sufficient experience in the requirements of traditional Bank disbursement and financial
reporting requirements through the implementation of the ongoing Basic Health and Nutrition Project.
With regard the SMI component, the sequence of the principal disbursement steps would be as follows:
* Health care providers, through the DISAs, will submit reimbursement requests for services to the
local SMI office on a monthly basis.
*  The local SMI office will verify and consolidate the reimbursement requests from providers in its
jurisdiction, review, approve them and forward them to the SMI central office. Local SMI offices are
also responsible for quality supervision and control of services provided.
* The central SMI office will verify and consolidate all reimbursement requests and issue payment
authorizations (ordenes de pago) to the OGA (Oficina General de Administracion) in MINSA.
* The OGA will then request the UCP to transfer resources (in local currency) from the Special
Account to the SMI-designated account in the OGA to cover payment authorizations and in turn will
deposit them, in the account of the respective health care providers, the same day. The entire process
is expected to be completed within 30 days from start to finish. Confirmation of each deposit will be
forwarded to the UCP as a receipt from each transaction.
It was agreed during negotiations that MINSA will furnish the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for strengthening the SMI's accounting and internal control systems prior to Loan effectiveness.
Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements. During the preparatory phase, a Bank's Financial-
Management Specialist evaluated the financial management system relating to this project to determine
whether the project is in compliance with OP.BP 10.02. The project satisfies the Bank's financial
requirements but does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information for the requirements of the PMR-
based disbursements. An action plan for setting up a PMR-based system has been agreed with MINSA
(see Annex 2b). It was agreed that migration to PMR will take place no later than 18 months after Loan



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                            Page 17
effectiveness. Upon moving to the PMR system, both the Bank and the Borrower would make sufficient
funds available to finance Project operation based on a six month rolling budget revised quarterly. The
Bank's advance into the special account covering a six month period of operation cannot exceed US$16.0
million. Replenishment of the Bank's portion of these expenses would be contingent upon satisfactory
advancement of the Project as indicated by quarterly PMR submitted to the Bank by Government.
Audit Arrangements. The Project accounts, including contracts and their modifications and
amendments, as well as the deposits and withdrawals from the Special Account would be audited each
year by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. In addition to the annual financial statements conforming to International Standards on
Auditing (IFAC Standards), the audit report would include comments on the internal control, the accuracy
and propriety of all expenditures and the extent to which supporting information could be relied upon as
a basis for requesting disbursements from the loan using PMRs. The auditors would issue an opinion on
the internal control structure at mid-year for each year of project execution. The first such opinion would
be submitted within three months of loan effectiveness. Annual audit reports with the related statements
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The Borrower
would also submit to the Bank unaudited quarterly financial statement prepared by the auditors starting
four months after effectiveness. All supporting records would be maintained at the Project site for at least
one year after the completion of the Project. The Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (FARAH), published in January 1995, would be used by auditors, in accordance with existing
World Bank procedures. The Borrower agreed during negotiations to complete the selection of the
external auditing firm as a condition of Loan effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project is designed to implement the recommendations of the health sector report (Peru:
Improving Health Care for the Poor) and is closely linked to the health policy conditionalities in the
SAL under preparation. In fact, as mentioned earlier, MINSA has already front loaded some major
decisions during the preparation phase of the APL which coincided with the continuing dialogue on the
Poverty SAL. The complementarity of the SAL and APL instruments and the utilization of the ESW
results constitute a unique process for providing immediate and medium-term assistance to the reforms in
the sector. The interest generated by the SAL in the Ministry of Finance to focus on the reforms of the
health sector (and the other social sectors) presented MINSA an opportunity to accelerate the reforms in
these sectors.
The alternative of designing a traditional operation instead of an APL was considered. An APL was
preferred because it offers greater flexibility for implementation. Recent history of sector reforms in Latin
American countries showed that complex reforms require incremental changes which in turn require
flexibility. Flexibility is especially important in a sector where there will be an increasing change in the
role of MINSA and the regional/local health service providers.  The recent announcement of
municipalization of primary health care delivery, for instance, would imply increasing need for technical
and investment assistance which could not be anticipated in a pre-designed traditional operation. The
flexibility and openness offered by an APL to change course mid-way of the reform program would be
valuable.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                             Paae 18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                     Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Basic Health and Nutrition     S              S
Project
Reduce poverty                      FONCODES II                     S             S
Education Improvement          S              S
Rural Education (under
preparation)
Rural Water and Sanitation
(under preparation)
Rural Roads (under
preparation
Other development agencies
Address immediate investment        IDB - Fortalecimiento de
requirements of health facilities   Servicios de Salud
Strengthen primary care             USAID- Proyecto 2000
DFID - Reproductive
Health Project
DFID - Proyecto INCA
Reform Health Sector                IDB/OPEC Fund -
Proyecto de Desarrollo del
Sector Salud.(recently
approvedO
Government
Need to strengthen primary care in poor  Proyecto Salud Basica para
areas                               Todos (PSBPT)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The project design builds upon the experience of relevant operations financed by the World Bank group
over the past decade, including the ongoing Basic Health and Nutrition project in Peru, as well as other
international experiences. Key lessons incorporated into the project design are: (i) project objective and
scope should be linked to a clear policy framework; (ii) strong government and stakeholder commitment
should be obtained, particularly from regional, municipal, and community organizations; (iii) a flexible
approach is required for launching sector-wide or incremental reform program, as it enables the public
and interest groups to debate specific issues prior to large-scale implementation; (iv) subproject design
should be simple, focused, with modest objectives; (v) financing of critical investments should be linked
to the implementation of policy and/or institutional reform; (vi) provision of support systems and human
resources development is important to increase decision making and management capacity of the
MINSA; (vii) a adequate monitoring and impact evaluation system should be developed to allow
adjustments to be made in project design and implementation arrangements during the life of the project;



Peru: Heafth Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                            Page 19
and (viii) decentralization should be accompanied by measures to ensure accountability and equity among
decentralized entities.
The Basic Health and Nutrition (PSNB, Proyecto de Saludy Nutricion Basica) project's experience has
been useful in informing the development of the proposed new project, as well as in identifying areas
requiring increased attention. The PSNB's implementation has demonstrated that MINSA needs to
exercise stronger leadership in the coordination of integrated health projects and donor financing. PSNB
has involved department health entities and communities in identifying health priorities in the local areas.
This notable but limited experience can be expanded under the APL. PSNB has started some of the basic
actions that will be used by DGSP in the streamlining of mother and child programs, i.e. the clinical
protocol for mother and child integrated health attention; the establishment of family history in primary
health posts/clinics; the health communication strategy; and the lessons learned in the pilot of some
integrated health networks in selected project areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
This project supports the Government's reform objectives for the health sector. The Govemment
approved two laws in 1997 which established the general principles of the sector reform: the General
Health Law (Ley General de Salud) and the Social Security Modernization Law (Ley de Modernizacion
de la Seguridad Social). To pursue the implementation of the measures under these laws, the
Government established the UCM and the COMSSS (Comision Monitora de la Seguridad Social en
Salud); staff of both committees are actively involved in the preparation of this operation. The Ministry of
Finance (MEF) reiterated its commitment and support to the reforms in the sector during the 1999
Annual Meetings with Bank regional management. MEF emphasized the Government's commitment to
assume increasingly the budget requirements of the SMI.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*    Ability to bring to Peru worldwide knowledge on health development and reform issues;
*    Assistance to MINSA to leverage project objectives and results in the country's quest for
poverty reduction;
*    Push for coordination of interventions across sectors and a holistic view of health
development;
*    Mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvements;
*    Mobilization of resources and stimulation of donor coordination.
*    Flexibility of APL instrument allows the change of reform course when necessary
E: Summary Project Analysis:
The design of the health reform program in Peru has been supported by various analytical work which
includes the study Peru: Improving Health Care of the Poor and MINSA commissioned papers. Hence,
the choices made in the project design counted on the following specific analysis:
*  The identification of national health care priorities based on the epidemiological profile of the
population;
*  A prioritization exercise to develop a package of publicly-financed services based on the health care
needs of the poor, the cost-effectiveness of interventions and public good analysis;
*  Sector efficiency analysis;
*  Distributional analysis using income-specific epidemiological data and a benefit incidence study of
public expenditures in health



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                            Page 20
1. Economic:
The project is designed to improve the efficiency and equity of public spending on health by:
*  Increasing the share of public resources directed to providing an essential services package to the
poor. This will be achieved by adding new resources directed to address the health care needs of the
poor and by providing incentives to shift existing resources towards attending to the health care needs
of the poor. A benefit incidence analysis of 1997 data identified who benefits from the current health
system (see Annex 4). The poorest was shown to receive less of the government subsidy than do
other groups. The SMI was designed, based on the findings from the demand- and benefit incidence
analysis, to expand access to services that are today accessible to all but the poor.
*  Allocating public financing for services with clear externalities. The services to be provided --a
subset of the package of services identified in the WDR93-- are justified for public financing because
of strong elements of a public good or clear positive externalities (e.g. communicable disease control,
child health, behavior change communication). Further, these services target diseases associated with
the poorest in Peru and are delivered at regions and at facilities most likely to serve the poor. Some
services, such as reproductive health interventions, address historic gender inequalities in accessing
the services.
*  Improving the efficiency of existing health sector resources (including staff) by increasing utilization
ofpublic health facilities. Analysis of expected efficiency gains focused on increased outputs at the
same level of staffing and infrastructure. The large build-up of facilities and the expansion of staffing
that took place in 1994-97 was accompanied by low levels of utilization of many public facilities due
to the high cost of user-fees that prevented many of the poor from getting access to key services.
MINSA health workers produce on average 1-2 consultations per day, health centers about 16 and
health post around 3. The elimination of the economic barrier with the implementation of the SMI and
the planned interventions to improve use of the facilities by indigenous people are expected to
increase utilization. Most of the increase in demand is likely to take place in health centers and
hospitals. Based on the projections for increased coverage (Annex 2a) and on the Bolivian
experience, some of these facilities could multiply utilization by a factor of 3 or 4 during the initial 18
months of implementation of the SMI.
2. Financial:
Health expenditures in Peru, at 4 percent of GDP, are relatively low compared with a Latin American
average of about 6-7 percent. Correspondingly, the public sector effort assigned to health measured by
public sector expenditures (excluding the social security) at about 1I.1 percent of GDP or 6 percent of the
public budget in 1997 are about two thirds of what other Latin American countries assign to health.
Table E-1 below projects the estimated fiscal cost associated with the project. MINSA has estimated the
likely fiscal impact of the PARSALUD during the years 2000 to 2002 assuming a phased expansion of
the SMI program. The whole reform program would increase the public health sector expenditures by
US$62 million in 2000, US$98 million in 2001 and US$109 million in 2002 and would then stabilize at
about US$70-US$80 million once the upfront capital investments have been completed and only recurrent
reimbursements remain. In percentage, the program would imply an expansion of 8 percent in sector
expenditure in 2000, 14 percent  in 2002 and about 10 percent in subsequent years.  At the
macroeconomic level, this would not be significant (a net addition of about 0.1 percent of GDP in relation
to a without project projection). In terms of the public sector budget, it would raise the share of health
from 7.2 percent to 8.3 percent. These are all manageable figures, and the increased figures would be
closer to the Latin American standards that the alternative without project projections. They will however
require a political determination to strengthen public expenditures in health.
Table E- I also shows the sources of financing for the additional expenditures. In year 2000, only 15
percent of the additional cost would be financed by the Treasury, with the difference financed by external
credits. External financing would be progressively reduced, reaching about half of the total by the end of



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                  Pane 21
the first phase of the APL. It is expected that once the current tight fiscal position of the Peruvian
government is overcome, it will fully finance the SMI.
Table E-1
PUBLIC HEALTH EXPENDITURES
(MILLION US $)
1997       1998        1999        2000        2001        2002
With Project'
A Sector2                          697,400     765,989     733,972     731,691     753,642    776,251
Without Project
B Sector2                          697,400     765,989     733,972     793,869     852,096     885,167
Increase                                                              62,178      98,454      108,916
Credit and cofinancing                                                 53,249     74,275       60,476
Treasury                                                                8,929     24,179       48,440
Memo
GDP                                66,033,840   63,393,793   65,295,606   66,560,386   72,674,009   77,034,450
Govemnment Budget (GB)             11,249,397    9,935,558   10,142,002    9,533,279   10,105,275   10,711,592
Without Project
A/GDP                              1,1%        1.2%        1.1%        1.1%        1.0%        1.0%
AIGB                               6.2%        7.7%        7.2%        7.7%        7.5%        7.2%
With Project
B/GDP                                                                  1.2%        1.2%        1.1%
B/GB                                                                   8.3%        8.4%        8.3%
I/Without Project assumes a real increase of 3% per year (less than the official projected growth in GDP). This projection is based on an
extrapolation of the recent year evolution of public expenditures and the effect of the closings of the ongoing loans and frants from the IDB, the
World Bank, USAID and DFID.
2/lncludes the budget of DISAs.
3. Technical:
The appropriateness, among others, of (i) the benefit plan, coverage, payment mechanisms and expansion
strategy of the SMI; (ii) the expansion plan of the CLAS; (iii) the streamlining strategy for the mother and
child and environmental health programs were analyzed and found to be satisfactory. Details are in
Annex 2a and relevant working papers are in the project files.
4. Institutional:
Effective mechanisms for the decentralization of resources to the DISA level and their monitoring have
been developed during the Basic Health and Nutrition Project and will be employed again by
PARSALUD. Project management capacity at the Central level has been strengthened by the
Fortalecimiento del Sector Salud Project financed by IDB and will be built upon under the proposed
project. Departmental level planning and management capacity will be strengthened as needed; and
technical assistance will be provided to build the capacity of the DISAs, Redes and CLAS to prepare,
appraise and supervise subprojects under PARSALUD. Intersectoral coordination, especially with
environment, water and sanitation and education and FONCODES will be monitored closely during
implementation.
5. Social:
A Social Assessment (SA) has been carried out to detect the relevant cultural patterns of users and of
providers of health care (stakeholders), and to understand the gaps that impede the improvement and use
of health services in general; and the adequate participation of beneficiaries in the proposed health
insurance scheme, in the formation and operation of CLAS-type organizations, and in the formulation of
local health plans, in particular The SA includes: (a) the identification and analysis of relevant



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                Paae 22
stakeholders, (b) a bibliographic review of similar prior work carried out in Peru; and (c) surveys, and (d)
the results of a Participatory Rural Appraisal exercise among the most excluded groups in four
representative regions of Peru. The recommendations of the SA have been incorporated in the Socialr
Communication strategy (Annex 9) and in project design especially in adapting investment and training to
local area needs. A project strategy for the Indigenous People has been prepared and presented to the
Bank for review before negotiations. The strategy has identified all the indigenous groups potentially
benefited by the project, specific barriers for their participation in its benefits and actions to be undertaken
under project implementation that will ensure that these groups have adequate and informed participation
in the project, its recommendations have also been included in Annex 9 and in the project Operations
Manual. Additionally, a national Indigenous Peoples Development Plan is now being prepared by the
Borrower and its implementation will be financed by a Learning and Innovation Loan whose activities
will be coordinated with this project.
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category  [ ] A   [X ] B   [ ] C
Justification/Fundamental reason for the classification by category: Although the project does not present
any significant environmental risk, an Environmental Assessment (EA) was conducted as part of project
preparation activities.  The EA  includes a bibliographic review  of existing national or sector
enviromnental standards and a technical analysis of the components and activities proposed for Bank
funding to determine environmental risks and propose appropriate mitigation measures. Subprojects
eligible for financing will be subject to an environmental assessment as part of their technical evaluation
and will be required to comply with measures to minimize environmental impact. The Operations
Manual for the project will include criteria for an environmental technical assessment of investments and
the specific steps to minimize impact for each type of subproject, as appropriate.
Procedures for Environmental Evaluation. The UCP would carry out the technical evaluation of large
investment subprojects and will employ Environmental Evaluation Specialists with capacity and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. These specialists would carry out environmental evaluations for large
subprojects. Additionally, health facilities submitting subprojects to the DISAs for financing would fill
out an environmental checklist for project preparation, which should be used as a guide. The checklist
will center around environmental matters and raise any issues of potential environmental impact. In cases
in which the proposed subproject has a potential environmental impact, it will be sent to the EA Specialist
at the UCP who would review the subproject and recommend actions to be taken by the beneficiary
organization or the DISAs, to carry out: (i) a project environmental impact analysis, along with a
methodology to identify the impact; (ii) a discussion of existing options to minimize adverse impacts and
adapt the project to its environment; (iii) an analysis of the trade-offs between different options; and (iv) a
general vision of any doubts arising from the information.
Other aspects of environmental control. The project includes environmental health activities: subprojects
for chlorination of water and corresponding training of beneficiaries; solid waste management in local
hospitals, etc.; ); training for personnel at the local level in the use of environmental evaluation criteria
and streamlining of environmental health programs in MINSA.
7. Participatory Approach:
The DISAs, health care personnel and CLAS-type organizations (health facilities with community
participation) in key target areas were consulted during project preparation, particularly on the proposed
arrangements for the insurance scheme and on their needs for local capacity building. Primary
beneficiaries are being consulted through focus groups and through satisfaction surveys as part of the
Social Assessment activities. These instruments, and others that will be designed under the DFID-
financed P&ME (see section 4 above) will be used annually to monitor satisfaction with the services
supported by the project. As part of the project launch, communities, municipalities, departments, donors
and NGOs will be invited to participate in meetings and other promotional activities where the objectives
and proposed implementation of the project will be discussed.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                               Pace 23
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The major issue for sustainability will be the financing of the SMI reimbursement. The Government
requested that both the Bank and the IDB loans finance the SMI reimbursements on a declining basis with
MEF increasingly absorbing the financial responsibility over the 10 year reform program. The fiscal
sustainability of the additional public expenditures implied by the SMI program and other aspects of the
project was reviewed and found to be manageable (see Financial Section - paragraph E-2 - above).
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
The first year of implementation of this project - 2000 - is envisioned to be a period of critical changes in
Peru. The Presidential elections in April 2000 may imply changes in sectoral policy making authorities
and public health officials at the local level. In order to minimize risks of disruptions, if and when these
changes occur, the first phase of the proposed APL was designed to finance activities that will have a high
probability of survival because of their direct benefits to poor families and communities. Along side the
SMI, the project support to CLAS is envisioned to strengthen social control from communities of the use
of project funds in the health services. Furthermore, open discussions of health issues involving the
Congressional Health Committee, academics and NGO representatives have been initiated during the
dissemination of the health sector report which was partly the technical basis of this operation. During
Phase I implementation, various workshops and training sessions of communities through the CLAS and
the DISAs (department health leaders) will be carried out for the preparation of regional and local health
plans. Likewise, periodic consultations with other stakeholders such as the medical college will be
undertaken. These sessions also provide opportunities to discuss developments and possible changes for
the second generation of reforms in the sector.
The decentralization of health services also faces a high risk. The municipalization of primary health
services announced in July 1999 would require substantial clarifications on the role, financial capacity
and technical capability of various municipalities to assume transferred responsibilities. The project's
support for strengthening decentralization of health services delivery aims to plant the seed for greater
participation of sub-national government and community stakeholders in health program decisions. To be
realistic, the institution-building needed by this decentralization will require continued support during the
reform period. The APL presents an opportunity for the Government and the Bank to work together on
ensuring that incremental changes in the decentralization effort become sustainable.



Peru: Health Reforn Program (PARSALUD)                                                      Page 24
Lack of political support for policy and institutional  H        Involvement of the Ministry of
reforms at central and subnational levels                        Finance in the reform decisions;
Changes in Ministry authorities that would disrupt               Involvement of middle
reform course                                                    management in MOH, local health
departmental authorities,
Slow implementation of service delivery decentralization         municipalities and more
importantly the communities in
reform decisions and
implementation.
Open dissemination of reform
objectives and plans
Administrative and political instability at the   S              Capacity building and creation of
departmental level.                                              interest of local authorities and
community organizations in health
expenditure decisions.
Inadequate regional and local capacity to prepare and  S         Capacity building and creation of
implement health plans                                           interest of local authorities and
community organizations in health
expenditure decisions
Resistance of some stakeholders from the institutional    5      Involvement of stakeholders in
changes being sought (consolidation of health programs           reform process
in M1NSA)
Ability of MOH to obtain adequate fiscal resources for   S       Agreement with Ministry of
SMI implementation                                               Finance on plan for efficiency gains
in other reform areas in the future al
Ability of SMI Unit to quickly respond to SMI     S
reimbursement request and/or ability of department-level
public health facilities to provide services required under
the benefit package
Need to strengthen project financial management   S              Timne bound action plan to
strengthen this area has been agreed
with MINSA and is under
implementation. Additional
actions to ensure continued
strengthening of the system
especially of the SMI will be
incorporated in an Action Plan to
be agreed with the Bank prior to
Loan effectiveness.
Overall Risk Rating S              Flexibility of APL instrument
should allow adaptation of project
design
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions:
Special Effectiveness Conditions: (i) Adoption of Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank; (ii)
Selection of an auditing firm satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) Submission of action plan for the continued
strengthening of SMI's accounting and internal control systems.
Special Loan Covenants: (i) Assure the autonomy of operation of the SMI within MINSA; (ii) Assure the
streamlined operation of the UCP; (iii) Signing of implementation agreements between MINSA and each



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                              Page 25
of the DISAs in the project area; (iv) Submission by each DISA of an annual operating plan based on its
regional health plan; (v) Signing of agreement between MINSA and INEI; (vi) Establishment of the MOH
Task Force to guide the implementation of the streamlining of the mother and child programs; (vii)-
Carrying out of periodic independent medical audits to evaluate the reimbursement applications submitted
by eligible health establishments and to determine whether the obligations of said establishments under
the SMI regulations have been fully complied with.
I. Readiness for Implementation
- 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
X 1 b) Not applicable
_2. The procurement documents for the first years activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The project implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
X 4. The following items are lacking an are discussed under loan conditions (section G):
(a) Annual operating plan by each DISA which will be the basis to prepare specific procurement
documents.
(b) Signed implementation agreements between each DISA in the project area and MINSA.
H: Compliance with Bank Policies
The project complies with all relevant Bank policies.
flask Tea  Lea      geline Javier
Sec        r Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Coun   DirectoCC6C



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                         Page 26
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I     Project Design Summary
Annex la    Trigger Indicators
Annex 2a    Project Description
Annex 2b    Project Management and Operations Manual
Annex 3     Structure of the MINSA Budget
Annex 4     Communicable Diseases in the Regions
Annex 5     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 6     Financial Summary
Annex 7     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B          Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C          Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 8     Benefit Incidence of Health Expenditures
Annex 9     Participation and Social Communication Strategies
Annex 10    Letter of Sector Policy from the Government of Peru
Annex 11    Documents in the Project files
Annex 12    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 13    Country at a Glance



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                        Page 27
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Peru: Health Reform Program
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Expand access to and improve   *  Accelerated reduction in    ENDES Surveys             *  Stable
quality of health and nutrition   infant and peri-natal    Beneficiary Assessments          macroeconomic
services (CAS dated 6/26/97)      mortality                                                 framework
*  User satisfaction increased                           *  Continuity and
as verified by appropriate                               consistency in the
social and beneficiary                                   development of
surveys                                                  health policy
Program Development
Objective - Targets for 2010:  *  Infant mortality rate     ENDES Surveys;              *  Political support for
reduced from 43 to 20 per  MINSA health statistics;      project policy and
The medium-term goals of the 10    1000 live births by 2010.   Evaluation of impact of      institutional reforms,
year Health Reform Program are                             regional and local health plans.  at central and local
to: (a) improve matemal and    *  Peri-natal mortality                                      levels.
child; and (b) help reduce        reduced by 50 percent                                 *  Allocation of
morbidity and deaths of the poor   between 2000 to 2010;                                    sufficient resources
from communicable diseases and                                                              to implement critical
inadequate environmental                                                                    health programs
conditions. (Financial support                                                          *  Maintenance of
from IBRD, IDB and bilateral                                                                reform course in
donors)                                                                                     case of changes in
Ministry authorities
Project Development Objective
- Targets for 2003
The first phase of the project  *  60 percent increase in the   ENDES Surveys;          *  Political and
(2000-2003) aims to contribute to  number of pregnant      ENAHO Surveys;                  financial support for
the above health goals in Peru     women with 4 or more    MINSA health statistics;        project policy and
through increasing access of the   prenatal care visits    Evaluation of impact of         institutional reforms,
poor to better quality health  *  33 percent increase of   regional and local health plans  at central and
programs and services.             births in project area                                  municipal levels.
attended by skilled health                           *  Administrative and
personnel                                               political stability at
*  At least 3.7 million cases                              the departmental
of acute respiratory                                    level;
infections (IRA) in
children under age 5
attended
* At least 780,000 cases of
acute diarrhea (EDA) in
children under age 5
attended
* Coverage of DPT3
immunization in 95% of
the children under age I   I



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                           Paae 28
maintained.
*  44% increase in
municipalities with DPT3
coverage for children
under age 1
*  At least 80 percent of
yellow fever cases
attended
*  At least 17 million
beneficiaries receive care
in the primary facilities of
MINSA annually
*  At least 80 percent of the
health departments
(DISAs) are
implementing regional and
local health plans that
respond to communicable
diseases and
environmental health
problems prevalent in their
______________________ _ = respective  localities
Project Components:
(FY2000-20003)
I. Strengthening Health         *  25 percent increase in the   SMI M & E;                *  Ability of MOH to
Demand: Implementation of the      number of pregnant        PARSALUD M & E;                  obtain adequate fiscal
Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI).     women attended in their    ENAHO Surveys;                 financing for an
first two trimester of   MINSA health statistics;         expanded
pregnancy                Evaluation of impact of         implementation of the
*  95 percent of newborn    regional and local health plans  SMI
children covered by SMI
weighted within the first
24 hours of birth
*  80 percent of facilities
have the minimum                                       *  Effective
standard package of                                       coordination,
equipment required for                                    complementarity and
child delivery                                            cross fertilization
corresponding to their                                    arrangements with
level of resolution capacity                             IDB-financed project.
*  Maximum of 25 days
interval between the
submission of
reimbursement request to
SMI and actual receipt of
reimbursement by health
facility
90 percent of SMI annual
programmed budget actually
spent
IL Strengthening                                                                           *  Adequate regional
Decentralization, Policy        *  At least 33 percent of                                     and community
Development and Institutional      MlNSA health posts and    ENDES Surveys;                   capacity to prepare
Modernization                      centers are administered    ENAHO Surveys;                 health plans



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                           Paqe 29
by CLAS by 2003          MINSA health statistics;      *  Resistance of some
*  80 percent of DISAs       Evaluation of impact of          stakeholders for the
provide adequate support   regional and local health plans  institutional changes
to the operation of CLAS                                  being sought
*  Effective implementation                                   (consolidation of
of Local Health Plans by                                  individual health
at least 60 percent of                                    programs in MINSA;
CLAS                                                      accelerated
*  At least 60 percent of the                                 implementation of
CLAS implement                                            CLAS)
effectively their local
health plans
*  The streamlining plan for
the mother and child
programs fully
implemented in all DISAs
*  The streamlining plan for
the environmental health
program fully
implemented in all DMSAs
III. Improving the Quality of
Health Programs and Services:
Investment Support for the      *   100 percent of DISAs have  PARSALUD M&E;                *  Adequate regional
Regional and Local Health          submitted investment       Beneficiary Assessment;          capacity to prepare
Plans                              projects for financing     User Satisfaction Survey         and implement
*  60 percent of subprojects                                  subprojects in
approved were adequately                                   accordance with
implemented after one year                                 priorities set in the
of submission                                              local and regional
*  At least 30 percent of                                     health plans
subprojects approved are
integrated subprojects.
IV. Project Coordination        *  UCP stays streamlined      PARSALUD M&E;
*  Monitoring reports are
issued twice a year
*  The monitoring and
evaluation unit produces
an analysis of the
distributional incidence of
project results annually
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (loan financing for   Project Reports:
components:                     each component)
I. Strengthening Health Demand
- Implementation of the SMI     *  SMI Reimbursement and    SMI M&E
TA for SMI Unit: US$55
M
II. Strengthening
Decentralization, Policy        *  TA for CLAS, DISA and    PARSALUD M&E
Development and Institutional       municipalities: US$7 M
Modernization:



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                          Page 30
III. Improving the Quality of
Health Programs and Services:   .  Civil works, equipment,    PARSALUD M&E
goods and services to
implement priority
investment subprojects in
the regional and local
plans: US$16 M
IV. Project Coordination        .  Operating costs of the    PARSALUD M&E
UCP: US$1.2 M



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                            Page 31
Annex la
PERU: Health Reform Program
Trigger Indicators under the Adaptable Program Loan
The critical performnance milestones of the principal activities of the project are defined as triggers to
determine appropriateness and readiness for launching Phase II of the APL. Areas for policy focus for tCe
second and third phases of the APL are also listed below.
Trigger Indicators                            Means of verification
Performance Milestones under First Phase         *  SMI monitoring and evaluation indicators
Project monitoring and evaluation reports
*  SMI expansion plan implemented in all health  *  Project Annual Review Reports
departments by June 2003
*  At least 30 to 33 percent of health posts and
health centers are administered by CLAS by 2003
*  Mother and child programs and environmental
health programs streamlined according to plan
agreed with the Bank
*  Distributional impact studies of Phase I health
activities concluded and recommendations ready
for consideration for Phase II
*   100 percent of loan committed and 80 percent
disbursed by June 2003
*  Satisfactory performance of complementary
projects in the sector which have relevance to the
achievement of the health reform development
objectives.
Readiness for Second Phase (Policy Focus)
*  Adequate legal framework and actions defined to
delineate the services to be provided by the
ESSALUD and MINSA hospitals
*  Recommendations of policy studies on separation
of financing and service provision in ESSALUD
available for consideration
*  Recommendations of policy studies on health
manpower issues available for consideration
Readiness for Third Phase (Policy Focus)
*  Satisfactory performance of measurable health
indicators as targeted under Phase II
*  Recommendations of policy studies on the
autonomy issues of national hospitals
*  Recommendations of policy studies on adult
health problems in Peru



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                 Page 32
Annex 2a: Project Description
Peru: Health Reform Program
By Component:
Component 1 - Strengthening Health Demand: Implementation of the Seguro Materno Infantil
(SMI) (US$149.0 million)
Objectives and Rationale of the SMIl
The main objective of the SMI is to help reduce infant and maternal mortality in Peru, which are still
among the highest in Latin America. The SMI program - in its initial phase - will improve access to poor
pregnant mothers and small children to quality health provided by primary health facilities and matemities
nationwide. The SMI will reimburse health providers for services rendered free of charge, including medicines
and required laboratory exams, to selected beneficiaries. This is expected to eliminate the economic barriers,
which is a strong impediment to access of pregnant mothers and small children to adequate care.
By the year 2003, the SMI program is estimated to cover annually about 500,000 pregnant mothers and about
1.2 million children under 4 years of age. At present, MINSA provides mother and child services in a wide
network of primary health care centers and maternities nationwide. MINSA attends to about 225,000 deliveries
of the estimated 660,000 total deliveries in the country per year. An estimated 131,000 deliveries are attended
by other institutions and the private sector, leaving over 303,000 deliveries (46 percent) unattended by
professional workers. The SMI program seeks to reduce maternal and child mortality by reducing the
unattended births and paying for the cost of deliveries of poor women. Recent studies indicated that many
women do not seek adequate pre-natal, child delivery and post-partum care due to their high cost (especially of
medicines) relative to household incomes. The following is an estimated number of beneficiaries to covered by
the SMI program in the period 2000 to 2003 in all health departments:
Table 1. Beneficiary Population of the SMI, CY2000-2002
(Thousands)
Year                       Pregnant Women               Children Less Than 4 Years
of Age
2000                       148                           445
2001                       281                           760
2002                       446                          1,140
2003                       503                          1,254
Source: Estimates by the SMI group at the Ministry of Health (Scenario 1 figures).
Benefit Plans of the SMI Program
The SMI is an "insurance" program (a reimbursement mechanism) that pays for services rendered to
eligible population in public health posts, centers and hospitals. Eventually, the program aims to reimburse
services provided at private establishments certified and approved by the SMI Board of Directors. The program
will also introduce premiums for medium- and high- income families as it progressively expands to selected
urban areas. The SMI payments for services rendered will be made according to an established benefit plan and
fee schedules. Fee schedules are calculated on the basis of variable costs of services (including inputs,



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                    Page 33
laboratory exams, medicines, etc.). They exclude the cost of personnel and infrastructure, which are already
paid for by the MINSA. In order to participate, health posts, centers and hospitals need to meet service quality
requirements established by the Ministry of Health and the SMI and to follow strict service protocols
established for the different complexity levels.
Benefit Plan for Beneficiary Pregnant Women. SMI's benefit plan for pregnant women includes a
generous wide range of health care controls and treatment of sicknesses detected during the pre-natal period,
delivery and postpartum-up to six weeks after delivery. During the pre-natal period, the SMI includes pre-
natal controls, laboratory exams, nutrition fortification, vaccination, dental care, and early detection of cancer,
among others. All forms of delivery of babies are included-normal, cesarean--and any complication arising
therefrom. The plan also includes treatment of sicknesses detected during pregnancy that are unrelated to that
condition, such as diabetes, anemia, appendicitis, etc. Finally, the SMI includes postpartum controls and all the
complications that occur during the six-week period after birth (See Annex 2a, Table 4). Excluded from the
SMI package are treatment of accidents and trauma caused by third parties, such as vehicle accidents, treatment
of cancer detected during pregnancy, birth and postpartum, and treatment of AIDS. These conditions will be
treated separately under MINSA and/or reinsurance schemes currently under preparation and discussion in the
Ministry of Health.
Benefit Plan for Children Under 4 Years of Age. The benefit plan for children under four years of age
also includes a generous wide-ranging battery of well-baby care controls and treatment of all conditions
occurring to children in this age group. The package includes well-baby care controls and growth monitoring,
vaccinations, nutrition supplements, treatment of EDAs, IRAs, and infectious diseases, among others (See
Annex 2a, Table 1). The SMI package excludes treatment of congenital malformations, accidents produced by
third parties, such as car accidents, AIDS, neoplasis and others, which will be treated by MINSA or under a
reinsure scheme currently under preparation by MINSA.
Costs of the Benefit Plans. The estimated costs of the benefit plans for pregnant women - from the
moment of conception to 6 weeks after delivery--of all care, and of children less than 4 years of age, are as
follows:
Table 2. Per Capita Cost Estimates of the Benefit Plans for Pregnant Mothers and Children Less Than 4 Years of
Age
Beneficiary Population                     Per Capita Cost Per Year (in US $)
Cost of Pregnant Mother                    61.40
Children
Less than 1 year of age                    40.04
Children 1-2 years of age                  36.47
Children 2-3 years of age                  29.69
Children 3-4 years of age                  28.09
Source: Estimates by MINSA-SMI group based on approximate variable costs (excluding labor, cost of utilities and maintenance of
infrastructure and equipment) and the frequencies of treatments included in the package.
SMI Pilot in Tacna and Moyobamba
With the purpose of testing institutional and logistical arrangements in the delivery of a basic package
of primary health care services a pilot SMI program was implemented in two provinces at the end of 1998. The
pilot included a predominantly urban area, Tacna, and a rural area, Moyobamba. The beneficiary population



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                  Paae 34
in those two provinces included children younger than 4 years of age and uninsured poor pregnant women,
totaling 19,000 in Tacna and 8,000 people in Moyobamba. The benefit plan included a basic health care
package for small children including care of the new born, well-baby care (growth monitoring, vaccinations)
and simple inpatient and outpatient child care. For the pregnant mother the package included checks ups and
health care for delivery -normal or complicated-and attention during postpartum for up to six weeks after
delivery. The total cost of the pilot program lasting 12 months was estimated at US$ 1.2 million or 45 per
person per year.
After six months of operation of the pilot projects, the government decided to adjust the design of the
SMI based on preliminary evaluations of those experiments. The first was to eliminate the small charge
beneficiaries had to make when enrolling in the program in rural areas. The SMI will pay health centers or
NGOs for affiliating rural people into the program, to help address the slow progress in affiliation in
Moyobamba. The second was to increase the benefit package to make it more comprehensive and more attuned
to beneficiaries needs. The new package will increase better coverage of new born child care (to better address
neonatal mortality), and better coverage of mother health needs-not only those related to pregnancy-and an
extended period of prenatal care. On average, the cost of the benefit plan for pregnant mothers increased to
about US$ 60 dollars per year, while that of the children over US$ 36 dollar per year. Finally, the third
modification was to realign some relative prices for reimbursement to health providers and to increase
reimbursements as to reflect cost more accurately.  Health care providers were complaining that
reimbursements were too low and did not reflect the variable cost of services provided. Labor costs are not
included in fees since they are paid out of the Ministry's health budget.
Affiliation Mechanism
Affiliations to the SMI are made by primary health care networks, including public health posts and
centers, and health centers and posts under shared administration between the Ministry of Health and
Communities (CLAS). When needed non-government organizations and organized communities will be
authorized to affiliate in remote areas to increase enrollment of the poor.  The SMI will pay health posts,
centers and NGOs and communities a small fee for affiliation. Although affiliation is made at centers and posts,
beneficiaries are free to choose any health post, center or hospital to obtain their services. Hospitals will attend
to those people referred by lower level establishments, except in cases of proven emergencies and are not
allowed to enroll beneficiaries to the SMI. This will decongest maternities of hospitals freeing them of all pre-
natal and well baby care that can be provided by lower level establishments.
Beneficiary lists will be updated at the region's SMI Office with the information provided by health
centers and posts which has been previously audited. Lists will be free from duplications and people not
meeting program requirements, such as women who have completed their postpartum free care, children over 4
years of age, and women and children not belonging to the target poor population. All children over four years
of age attending public education are beneficiaries of the Seguro Escolar program. In the case of urban areas,
people who are classified as non-poor will be out of the beneficiary lists and will be charged market prices of
services, following directives from the Ministry of Health.
The Organization of the SMI
An SMI unit will be established within MINSA to coordinate and supervise the implementation of the
SMI. The SMI unit will also carry out the necessary start-up promotional activities, training of DISAs and
supervision of the SMI services in the field. The Unit will have autonomy and flexibility to plan, program,
supervise, control and monitor SMI budget and expenditures. The Unit will have a lean structure composed of a
central office in Lima and a network of small offices located in each region of the country whose role will be
primarily to ensure quality control, supervise the SMI implementation in the health facilities, as well as review,



Peru: Health Reform Prooram (PARSALUD)                                                  Paae 35
process and transmit to the DISA and the SMI central unit requests for reimbursements. The SMI will be
headed by a Director appointed by the Minister of Health.
Payment Mechanism
Learning from the lessons of the Tacna and Moyobamba pilots, the SMI will introduce a simple but
efficient payment scheme. Reimbursement of SMI services will be provided upon approval by regional SMI
staff of services provided according to SMI's benefit plans and fee schedules. Regional SMf offices will
consolidate all the region's information and accounts that will be sent for payment to the central SMI. The
MINSA general administration office (OGA) will deposit in accounts of regional health services or directly to
health providers, including the CLAS the amount of reimbursements authorized by the SMI Unit. Appropriate
payment and control mechanisms (including the specific forms to be used in the payment process) have been
designed and pilot-tested. These processes are described briefly in Annex 7 and are elaborated in more detail in
the SMI Operations Manual.
To encourage early enrollment to the SMI of pregnant mothers and small children, the SMI will pay 40
percent of the costs of required prenatal and well baby care visits at affiliation time (the first visit). The
remainder will be paid at the time of the last pre-natal visit or yearly control for children. Other medical
consultations will be paid according to an established fee. To reduce any possible abuse of the system, only 2
consultations per month will be provided free of charge in the SMI package for pregnant mothers and children.
Treatment requiring inpatient care will be paid according to a fee schedule that groups several diagnostics and
treatments included in the SMI mother and child plans.
Loan Finance
The Bank will finance the SMI program on a declining basis. It is expected that the government will
assume full financing of the SMI program on the fifth year of the SMI implementation. The loan will also
finance the establishment of the SMI Unit at the central level and the small offices at the regional level.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                         Paae 36
Annex 2a, Table 3
MATERNAL-CHILD INSURANCE
Benefit Plan for Mothers
PREGNANT AND PARTURIENT WOMAN
A. PRENATAL CARE FOR NORMAL PREGNANCY:
Prenatal examination
Laboratory tests: blood profile, haemoglobin, blood group and Rh typing, urine test, VDRL or similar, ELISA (for
HIV), and blood glucose.
Tetanus toxoid vaccination.
Ferrous sulfate and folic acid supplements.
Dental examination: filling of caries, tooth extractions (up to 3).
Detection of cervical cancer: Papanicolaou test.
Prenatal counseling: information on and recognition of danger signs and signals, obstetrical risk rating,
breastfeeding, nutrition, and healthy lifestyles.
Preparation for breastfeeding.
Psychoprofilaxis for labor and delivery.
B. PRENATAL CARE FOR HIGH-RISK PREGNANCY:
Prenatal exam for high-risk pregnancy according to protocols.
Additional tests according to protocols:
*Laboratory tests.
*Image diagnoses.
C. CARE OF PRENATAL COMPLICATIONS, INCLUDING ANY COMPLICATION FOR EXAMPLE
First trimester hemorrhage:                Hypertensive disease of pregnancy
Hydatiform mole                            Hyperemesis gravidarum
Ectopic pregnancy                          Premature labor
Abortion and related complications         Multiple pregnancy
Threatened abortion                        Polyhydramnios/Oligohydramnios
Second and third trimester hemorrhage:     Premature rupture of membranes
Placenta previa                            Transportation*
Premature separation of the placenta       Fetal distress
Uterine rupture
Antepartum hemorrhage due to clotting defects
D. CARE OF NON-PREGNANCY RELATED COMPLICATIONS, INCLUDING ALL CONCURRENT
MEDICAL AND SURGICAL CONDITIONS, FOR EXAMPLE:
Urinary infection                          Diabetes mellitus
Anemia                                     Acute appendicitis
Malnutrition                               Asthma
E. NORMAL DELIVERY:
Professional attendance + medicines and supplies (birth package for mother and newborn)
One day of hospitalization
As previously indicated, there is a group of pathologies that are considered catastrophic that will be channeled by the SMI to
a supplementary insurance plan.
SPECIAL BENEFIT PLAN FOR MOTHERS
Trauma and/or accidents caused by third parties.
Breast, uterine, and ancillary cancer detected during pregnancy.
AIDS detected during pregnancy, birth, and postpartum.
Transportation*.
SPECIAL BENEFIT PLAN FOR CHILDREN
Congenital malformations.
Accidents caused by third parties.
Innate errors of metabolism.
AIDS
Neoplasms
Transportation*.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                           Pane 37
To a specialized facility. If necessary, air transportation outside the department will be covered (also covers the cost of an
accompanying health provider).
ABOUT TRANSPORTATION
In rural areas (health centers and posts), the SMI covers costs of necessary transportation so that the beneficiary
can accede to a health facility from her/his home in case of emergency.
F. CARE OF HIGH RISK DELIVERY:
Professional attendance.
Auxiliary tests and procedures according to the case.
G. CESAREAN DELIVERY: 4 DAYS OF HOSPITALIZATION ACCORDING TO PROTOCOLS
H. CARE OF ALL DELIVERY COMPLICATIONS, FOR EXAMPLE:
Uterine rupture
Hypovolemic shock
Transportation*.
I. NORMAL POSTPARTUM CARE
Postpartum examination (minimum 2).
Ferrous sulfate, folic acid, and vitamin A supplementation.
Family planning.
J. CARE OF ALL POSTPARTUM COMPLICATIONS, FOR EXAMPLE:
Postpartum hemorrhage.
Retained placenta.
Puerperal infection.
Breast and/or nipple infection.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                           Paae 38
Annex 2a, Table 4
MATERNAL-CHILD INSURANCE
Benefit Plan for Children
NEWBORNS
A. Care of the normal newborn:
Immediate care                               BCG vaccination
Ocular prophylaxis (silver nitrate)         1 Vitamin K administration
Polio vaccination                           | Blood group and Rh typing
B. Care of the newborn with problems, for exampl :
Newborns affected by maternal delivery       Respiratory distress syndrome and other respiratory problems of
complications.                              the newborn.
Prematurity and low birth weight.            Neonatal emergencies:
Intrauterine hypoxia and neonatal asphyxia.  Surgical
Neonatal ichtericia.                         Non-surgical
Hemorrhagic illness.                         Neonatal transportation*
CHILDREN UNDER FOUR YEARS OF AGE
A. Integrated basic child care:
Monitoring of growth and development:            Anti-hepatitis B **(3)
5 visits the first year                          Anti-yellow fever ***(I)
4 visits the second year                     Prevention of micro-nutrient deficiencies (ferrous sulfate and
I visit the third year                      vitamin A supplements).
Immunizations:                               AIDS detection in children at risk.
Polio (3)                                    Counseling: identification of danger signs and signals,
DPT (3)                                      nutrition, personal hygiene.
Measles (1)
Anti-hemophyllus influenzae (3)
B. Care of the child with pathology, for example:
Diarrheal disease                            Infectious diseases, for example:
Watery diarrhea                              Diptheria
Dysentery                                    Tetanus
Persistent diarrhea                          Pertussis
Measles
Respiratory illness                          Chicken pox
Pneumonia                                    Hepatitis
Severe pneumonia                             Urinary tract infection
Very severe respiratory illness              Conjunctivitis
Non-pneumonia (cold, bronchitis)             Meningo-encephalitis
Streptococcal pharyngitis                    Typhoid fever
Acute otitis media                           Malaria
Bronchial obstruction syndrome               Dengue
Leishmaniasis
Skin diseases                                Chagas
Atopic dermatitis                            Tuberculosis
Acarus                                       Yellow fever
Pediculosis
Pio-dermatitis                               Emergencies:
Diaper rash                                  Surgical
Skin mycosis                                 Non-surgical, for example:
Convulsions
Intestinal parasites                         Trauma and bums
Congenital hip dislocation                   Intoxication and poisoning



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                 Pane 39
Micro-nutrient deficiencies (anemia, vitamin A    Shock
deficiency)                             Accidents not caused by third parties.            _
Transportation*
*To another facility by referral within the departmnent by land or water.
**In endemic zones (Ayacucho, Cuzco, Apurimac, Amazonas, Loreto, Madre de Dios, Ucayali, Hudnuco, Junin, Cerro de Pasco,
San Martin)
***In endemic zones (Loreto, Junin, Puno, Madre de Dios, Pasco, Ayacucho, Cuzco, San Martin, Huanuco).
Component 2 - Strengthening Decentralization, Policy Development and Institutional
Modernization (US$22.8 million)
A. Technical Assistance for Decentralization:
(i) CLAS Expansion and Empowerment of Communities
Objectives and Rationale of the CLAS
The Shared Administration Program, initiated in 1994, has served as a means for the Ministry of Health
to provide improved primary health services with the participation of civil society in private, non-profit entities
called CLAS ('Comite Local de Administracion de Salud') which, by virtue of a contract with the DISA,
receive and administer public treasury funds to provide health services. Each CLAS has seven members: three
are elected by the community, three are selected directly by the health facility manager. The seventh member is
the health facility manager, usually the chief physician, who participates in all decisions of the CLAS and
completes the scheme of co-management.
The basis of the DISA-CLAS contract is the local health plan (LHP) which establishes community
health needs and goals, describes in detail the activities needed to reach these goals, and provides an assessment
of human, material and financial resources required to implement the plan. An annual community health survey
(censo comunal) serves as the basis for identifying local health needs and provides true denominator data for
more realistic planning. Local health planning based on community epidemiology represents a major change in
MINSA programming methods, which have historically been controlled by the central level. The DISA-CLAS
contract holds the CLAS liable for implementation of the LHP, a responsibility that empowers it to exert social
control over budget allocations within the health facility. This also allows social control over the day-to-day
work of health personnel in terms of quality of care and completion of other work requirements.
CLAS have the capacity to improve equity in health care delivery since they are able to identify which
families in the community are the most needy of exonerations and special attention. CLAS members make
decisions on how funds (whether transferred public treasury funds or fees-for-services paid by patients) should
be utilized. They therefore tend to use resources more effectively, since they can better determine the needs and
priorities of their own community and have an incentive to obtain more for less. Citizen participation in CLAS
improves the production of health services, and therefore cost efficiency, through several mechanisms:
improvements in the quality and variety of services offered by the health facility, oversight by CLAS of
implementation of the LHP, and promotional efforts of CLAS in the community to promote utilization of
preventive, as well as curative, services. As a permanent local institution, CLAS helps to ensure the
sustainability of health and other social development programs in the community.  The administrative
flexibility provided by the private, non-profit status of the CLAS allow a myriad of ways to potentiate the
public sector investment in health services that is limited only by their level of creativity.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                               Paae 40
Challenges for CLAS Strengthening
Since its inception in 1994, the program has grown to incorporate about 14 percent of all primary care
facilities in the country (855 of approximately 6000 health centers and posts), and has proven itself to be a
viable and advantageous form of health care organization. Several qualitative evaluations of the Shared
Administration program have been conducted since 1996, which have identified some of the principal obstacles
and needs for the development of CLAS, including the following:
At the central level: (i) the need for on-going systematic analysis of CLAS to identify key problems
that could be solved with central level support, (ii) the need to provide basic funding to DISAs for costs of
supervision and TA for community development activities for the establishment and support of CLAS, (iii) the
need to move toward standardization of programming requirements and information systems for CLAS and
non-CLAS health facilities, without regressing on the advances made in CLAS in terms of community diagnosis
and integrated local health programming, monitoring, and evaluation.
In the DISAs: (i) the need for clarity on the role of the DISA in relation to CLAS, (ii) the need for
greater budget allocations for supporting CLAS, especially for their initial organization (thereby to ensure better
representation in each community), for provision of training to health facility managers, health personnel, and
CLAS members on a continual basis on a variety of issues including how to conduct community health
diagnoses, develop local health plans and budgets, administer primary health facilities, work with the
community and other sectors for integrated development, etc, and for continual supervision and monitoring.
In health facilities: (i) a need for greater training/preparation of health facility managers and CLAS
members regarding public health practice, especially community epidemiology and local health planning and
evaluation, (ii) a need to acquire knowledge in basic personnel and financial management as they relate to
private sector law, (iii) a need for more support for initial community organization and motivation to ensure the
democratic election of CLAS members who truly represent community interests.
Community participation in health cannot be assumed to develop simply by the creation of a CLAS.
Rather, CLAS is a component of community participation that, through its conferred authority and
responsibilities, facilitates empowerment of the community. The empowerment, in tum, creates a more
favorable environment for the community to act in a wider protagonist role in collective and individual health
activities and behaviors. The level of empowerment achieved in a community through CLAS has been shown
to depend on a constellation of variables. The factors of primary importance include: (i) the extent to which
CLAS members are democratically elected so that true leaders are chosen, (ii) the personal capability and
leadership characteristics of the health facility manager; and (iii) the effectiveness of efforts to orient and/or
motivate the community. Other factors of importance are: (iv) the permanence of health personnel in a
particular community (so that personal relationships between patients and provider can be established), and (v)
the consistency of supervisory and administrative support from DISA and other mid-level health officials.
Operational Plan for 2000. The CLAS operational plan for 2000 is oriented toward the expansion,
renovation and strengthening of CLAS, primarily through training, supervision and evaluation, and support for
local health planning and other selected locally identified needs. Specific objectives and activities of the year
2000 plan are:
i)    Promote the strategy of the Shared Administration Program  and support the expansion,
renovation and strengthening of individual CLAS -- Regional and local teams will be trained to
develop and implement IEC plans to promote the Shared Administration (SA) Program; community
leaders and members will be informed about the advantages of the CLAS model. DISAS and health
networks will have the resources necessary to supervise, monitor, and evaluate each CLAS.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                               Page 41
ii)    Strengthen the process of participatory planning -- A manual on how to implement and analyze a
community health survey will be developed, and training on the manual will be provided to regional
and local CLAS-support teams. Workshops will then be provided to individual CLAS on community
diagnosis with resulting production of local health plans.
iii)    Develop mechanisms for continual quality improvement within the framework of integrated care
within CLAS and health care networks -- "Model CLAS" will be identified and assisted to develop
innovative and simplified management and service delivery models for horizontal training of other
CLAS members. Local and regional CLAS teams will be trained on strategies for quality improvement
and how to assist individual CLAS to develop proposals and budgets for local quality improvement
projects.
Loan Finance
The loan will finance the technical assistance required for: (i) community motivation and orientation
activities to facilitate democratic election processes for CLAS formation; (ii) legalization processes for the
conformation of new CLAS; (iii) conduct of annual community health surveys and diagnoses by each CLAS,
(iv) training for CLAS in general concepts and methods of public health in order to strengthen community
capabilities to participate in all phases of development, implementation and monitoring/evaluation of local
health plans, through direct assistance from the DISA CLAS-support team or through the contracting of a local
organization (NGO, university, church), (v) strengthening of selected successful CLAS to serve as 'Model
CLAS' for observational training and for research and experimentation of new community health.
methodologies7; (vi) visits of CLAS members to Model CLAS for up to two weeks for horizontal learning and
interchange; and (vii) bi-annual department-wide (DISA) workshops for representatives from all CLAS for
cross-fertilization of experiences. The loan will also finance the investments that will be identified in the local
health plans in accordance with the eligibility and priority criteria established in the Project Operations Manual.
Implementation of this component will be directly supervised by the MINSA PAAG-PAC group in coordination
with PARSALUD.
(iH). Strengthening Capacity of Municipalities and DISAs
The DISAs are responsible for providing technical and administrative support to health facilities to
improve productivity and quality of primary health care, public health programs, IEC activities, environmental
health and other actions to improve the health of the population they serve. This support depends on adequate
information systems for health and management data, well-functioning financial accounting and logistic
systems, human resources management systems, adequate communications and transportation systems,
effective supervision, monitoring and evaluation systems, and others. It also depends on development of
appropriate models of care and of health facility management (i.e. integration of services, organizational and
cultural adaptation of health services, referral and counterreferral mechanisms, emphasis on community-
oriented prevention and promotion). The health sector reform has placed new demands on the DISAs with
regard to change in roles and expansion of responsibilities through the on-going decentralization process.
Significant technical assistance and training support is therefore needed for the DISAs to continue developing
the necessary skills to carry out their functions in an optimal manner.
In pursuit of further decentralization, President Fujimori announced In July 1999 the Government's
intention to transfer the responsibility of primary health care service delivery to the municipalities. The
regulatory measures of this transfer are being worked out in MINSA at this time.
7This activity will be modeled after the proposal described in: Community-Based Sustainable Human Development: A Proposal
for Going to Scale with Self-Reliant Social Development by D. Taylor-Ide and C.E. Taylor, UNICEF Environment Section, New
York, 1995.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                               Paae 42
Loan Finance
The Loan will provide technical assistance to DISAs to improve their ability to manage the delivery of
preventive/promotional and curative health services in their jurisdiction, including: (i) strengthening the
organizational and managerial capability of primary health facility personnel (and CLAS community members
in the case of CLAS facilities) especially in regard to the development and implementation of local health plans,
(ii) supporting studies and meetings/workshops that contribute to policy development and operational models in
DISAs and Redes, (iii) support for operational costs of the DISA to carry out supervision, monitoring, and
evaluation of local health plans in CLAS and non-CLAS facilities, and other management functions specific to
CLAS and non-CLAS facilities; and (iv) elaboration of appropriate investment proposals. The Loan will also
finance technical assistance to assist municipalities to better understand and carry out their new role in the
delivery of primary health care services.
C. Reorientation of the Role of MINSA and Public/Private Health Providers
Much fragmentation and duplication exist within MINSA. The problem is especially acute for
interventions in maternal and child health (MCH), nutrition, and environmental health, none of which has a
clear structure for policy or planning. In theory, MCH policy and planning is one of many responsibilities of
the Direcci6n General de Salud de las Personas (DGSP). Within DGSP, this responsibility is split into 8
national programs (for immunizations, child growth and development, diarrhea and cholera, acute respiratory
infections, matemal-perinatal health, family planning, school-age/adolescent health, micronutrient deficiency
prevention, and HIV-AID/STD), which are spread among various dependencies of DGSP. Two large and many
small externally financed projects also finance MCH activities.  Each of these projects are "vertically
integrated": they have independent planning offices and each has components of institutional development
(policy design, health sector financing, information systems), components to develop health care "software"
(typically development of medical protocols and training, sometimes IEC) and components to invest in
"hardware" for the public network (mostly equipment, in a few cases also construction). In environmental
health, there are overlaps and often duplications in food quality control (DIGESA, INS and the municipalities
duplicate actions in some areas and leave many areas uncovered) and vector control (DIGESA, INS, DGSP). In
nutrition, overlap in functions occurs between DGSP, INS and many other public and private sector institutions
outside MINSA.
Duplication is underpinned by a fragmented budget system (see Annex 4). The treasury finances some
of the fixed costs (labor costs, MINSA's large pension payments for retirees-included in MINSA's budget, and
some goods and services). Discretionary expenditures are financed by "projects" and by revenues from tariffs.
These resources are managed separately from the funds provided by the treasury and are spent according to
different rules and often by different decision-makers. Each project reports loosely to the MINSA Office of
International Financing, Investment, and Cooperation (OFICE) and to the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) through the MNINSA Office of General Planning (OGP). Two separate units in MEF monitor the health
projects. One for Salud Basica and another for the projects financed with foreign loans. No public agency has
aggregated information about the financial flows or progress indicators of the projects financed by bilateral
donors (some of which are large).
The project will support the reorientation of the role of MINSA as principally those of: (a) provision of
health norms and supervision of their implementation by public and private health providers; (b) ensuring
equitable access to health services to low income population; and (c) promotion and maintenance of public
health. This reorientation is in line with the increasing decentralization of health service delivery to the
municipalities, DISAs and the communities. Specific lines of actions to be supported will be:
(i) improvement of DGSP's normative and supervisory roles including streamlining of mother and
child health programs;



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                               Page 43
(ii) strengthening OGP's strategic planning and budgetary process;
(iii) streamlining of environmental health programs; and
(iv) development of action plans related to payment mechanisms and purchasing issues of MINSA and
ESSALUD health services
DGSP's Role and Streamlining of Mother and Child Health Programs
MINSA has elaborated a plan for DGSP restructuring and a complementary plan for streamlining the
mother and child health programs under the direction of DGSP. These plans are in the project file. The basic
thrust of these plans is to revitalize DGSP's normative and supervisory role in accordance with MINSA's legal
statutes and to integrate the policies, supervision and communication strategies for the 8 national subprograms
currently existing for mothers and children in MINSA. The plan for streamlining of the mother and child
programs include activities and instruments that have been piloted or are in the process of development by the
Basic Health and Nutrition Project (World Bank), Project 2000 (USAID), Project for Generation of Capacities
(DFID), and the Shared Administration Program-CLAS. The plan calls for a 'Task Force' headed by the DGSP,
with a general manager, and five management support specialists (administrative support, monitoring,
organization of events, instrument development, and communications). Functions are specified in the plan for
each of these positions. The plan states that it would be convenient for these personnel to come from the Projects
that are directly supporting this process. The establishment of the Task Force for the implementation of the
streamlining plan will be a condition of loan disbursement.
Strengthening DGSP's normative and supervisory role will require assistance in the following areas,
among others: (a) development of protocols for vector-bome diseases to improve on the procedure manuals that
DGSP currently has ; (b) development of methodologic guides to be used by DISAs for the preparation of
regional plans; (c) establishment of Geographic Information System (GIS) in relation to communicable and
vector-borne diseases with corresponding training of personnel in its use; and (d) training of regional personnel
to conduct investigation and epidemiologic surveillance. The PAHO regional office has offered to provide
additional technical assistance to DGSP in the elaboration of some of the above mentioned areas.
The loan will finance the consultant services, the workshops with the DISAs, and the follow-up
studies/action plans needed for the strengthening of DGSP's normative and supervisory role
OGP's Strategic Planning and Budgetary Process
With the assistance of Proyecto 2000 financed by USAID and a small contribution from the Bank-
financed PSNB, OGP has started restructuring MINSA' programming and budgeting system. Within the
budgetary programming framework of the Ministry of Economy (MEF), OGP is in the early stage of
implementing a programming and budgeting methodology based on estimated costs of producing the health
services (Sistema de Programacion Presupuestal, SPP). Efforts are underway to implement the SPP in 34
DISAs and the plan is to expand its implementation down to 110 "unidades ejecutoras" (cost centers) in the
country. Budgeting committees formed in the 34 DISAs are receiving assistance from OGP trainers.
The project, together with USAID's Proyecto 2000 (phase II), will continue the PSNB contribution to
the expansion of the SPP implementation in OGP and the DISAs. The assistance to the DISAs will be
especially important for the latter's role in consolidating and overseeing the implementation of regional health
plans. Assistance to OGP will include training for its current staff, hiring of consultants to upgrade OGP's
ability to respond to respond to MEF's and the DISA's requirements, support for training workshops and related
travel to the DISAs, and purchase of computers.



Peru: Health Reform Proqram (PARSALUD)                                               Page 44
Streamlining of Enviromental Health Programs
The streamlining of the following environmental health programs will focus on the following areas: i)
food safety, ii) malaria control, and iii) basic sanitation. The streamlining plan, a draft of which has been
submitted to the Bank, will specify the distinction of DIGESA's role in these areas. The major change will be
that DIGESA will focus on its regulatory, surveillance and enforcement roles. The APL project will provide
technical assistance to strengthen DIGESA's capacity to carry out the following:
Food Safety - regulation and certification of food quality, as well as ensuring that local govermments
enforce these regulations;
Malaria- fumigation and vector surveillance;
Basic Sanitation - enforcement and supervision of environmental norms.
MINSA and ESSALUD Health Services
Duplication of MINSA and ESSALUD's health services in some regions have resulted in under-
utilization and inefficient deployment of financial and human resources. The project will assist in the analysis
needed to understand better the underlying issues, including financing studies and workshops related to: (a) the
payment mechanisms in hospitals; (b) the contracting of services between M1NSA and ESSALUD facilities;
(c) the articulation of public health reimbursement mechanisms with the ESSALUD and private health
insurance schemes; and (d) the separation of financing and provision within ESSALUD insurance function; and
(e) the appropriate human resource skills mix and incentives to better serve poverty-oriented programs.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
The Health Information System (HIS) developed in the 1980s has become dysfunctional and outdated,
it is also not Y2K compliant. Data on the production of services is widely perceived as unreliable. Annual
statistics have not been published for several years. Each vertical program in the Ministry has now developed
parallel information systems, which overburden the providers with duplicate requirements of data with
inconsistent presentations. In response to this situation, the Ministry has prepared a Strategic Master Plan for
the development of information systems. As part of the implementation of this Master Plan, the project will
support the development and implementation of a new unified information system for service production (this is
one of 107 information systems identified by the Master Plan as being currently in place). A flexible modular
system is under development to monitor service production and will begin implementation in 2000. Key
hardware and connections have already been acquired with financing from the PFSS for MINSA headquarters
and all DISAs. The project will complement this investment with the purchase of key equipment for the first
data entry point (cabezas de redes), technical assistance for software development for production statistics,
training for data inputing and processing, and for data analysis.
Social monitoring activities will also be designed and implemented to complement the above activities.
DFID through its Reproductive Health Project is taking responsibility for assisting M1NSA in the social
monitoring design. Key primary stakeholders representing lowest quintiles in the social strata and other social
actors directly benefited by the project will be identified. Areas where the PM&E will be performed will be
defined by the MOH. Agreements in how each stakeholder wants to be involved will be made and a review of
what each stakeholder is already evaluating and monitoring will be performed. Rights and responsibilities of
each stakeholder in the PM&E will be defined and agreed as well as the level where PM&E will operate.
Areas and activities of the three components of the project that will be subject to M&E will be identified
and agreed by stakeholders and base-line qualitative and quantitative indicators for each of these areas will be
determined as well as appropriate participatory methods for data collection. Timing of data collection will be



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                               Page 45
defined collectively for the beneficiary assessment and information provided by the PM&E will be analysed by
key stakeholders. Recommendations towards the improvement of activities will be documented and shared with
decision-makers at different levels as to make necessary adjustments to local health plans and other activities.
For the implementation of the three components of the project, the CLAS will be the area where the
PM&E will take place. In places where CLAS do not exist and responding to cultural and organisational
differences, key primary stakeholders and DISAS will define areas where the PM&E will be carried out. In
order to guarantee sustainability of the PM&E, critical activities of the Mother and Child Health program will
also be considered as subjects of PM&E. Potential areas for evaluation for the first component could include
among others, users satisfaction with quality service provision in its different dimensions and equity in provision
of services.
The UCP will co-ordinate the PM&E process at the central level with the support of structures within the
MOH with experience in participation in health. It is suggested that the Executive Direction of Community
Participation of the DGSD implements and follow-up the PM&E process at regional and municipal level will be
determined by the MOH as to enhance the institutionalisation of PM&E after the conclusion of the project.
Implementation will be done in two stages. In a first stage a pilot DISA will be selected according to
criteria defined by MOH. Functionaries at the central and regional level co-ordinating, implementing and
following-up the process will be trained in PM&E as to carry out workshops with stakeholders where indicators
will be defined and a work-plan established for the implementation of PM&E in the selected CLAS.
Parallel to implementation, an operational research will be undertaken to document lessons and adjust
the process for its extension to other project areas. This research can examine and systematise indicators
emerging from the process, the value added of the approach in bringing about changes in service performance
and the impact of recommendations in influencing decision-makers. Manuals to guide the process in other
DISAs will be produced at this stage. In a second stage the PM&E process will be extended to other departments
drawing from the lessons identified in the pilot experience.
Loan Finance
The project will also finance two types of household surveys. A large Health and Demographic Survey
will be undertaken in 2000, producing estimates on health outcomes (including infant and maternal mortality).
A yearly module to measure the coverage of key interventions will also be financed. This module will
piggyback on an existing quarterly household survey (ENAHO) which INEI has been implementing since 1995.
Component 3 - Improving the Supply and Quality of Health Programs and Services: Investment
Support for the Regional/Local Health Plans (US$49.0 million)
This component will be a key operational instrument to implement the policy objectives of the SMI, the
community participation and service quality strengthening of CLAS and the decentralization of investment
choices at the local level. The component will finance investment projects (such as integrated health
interventions to support the SMI; health education; quality improvement of existing water and sanitation
services; area requirement for malaria/tuberculosis/AIDS diagnosis and testing), as well as social
communication, training or management strengthening activities addressing the health priorities of the regional
departments.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                  Paae 46
Types of Health Investment Subprojects
A key instrument that will be used to identify the investment priorities in the regions will be the Local
Health Plans (produced by CLAS) and the regional health plans produced by the DISA in consultation with the
municipalities, CLAS, health facilities managers and community organizations.
Financing requests for an integrated set of health activities (proyectos integrales) identified in the
regionalllocal health plans will be given priority. It is expected that investment financing would be required but
not limited to the following types of subprojects:
a. Support for SMI: Rehabilitation and equipment of health posts and centers, rehabilitation of
obstetric services in first and second level referral facilities, training of health personnel to raise their
capacity, IEC, social communication campaigns and other types of promotional activities to ensure
beneficiary participation in the program and its cultural adequacy.
b. Nutrition: Community outreach programs and integrated nutritional education packages for early
childhood and mothers to complement clinical services provided under the SMI program
c. Prevention and Treatment of Prevalent Communicable Diseases in the Local Area . Equipment,
inputs, training and social communication to increase the ability of local facilities for the early
detection and control of top priority communicable diseases identified in the health plans (See Annex 4
for background information on prevalent communicable diseases in the regions).
d. Environmental Health. Stationary and mobile laboratory equipment and inputs to increase the
ability for the early detection and control of food and water contamination in their communities,
particularly in food markets; treatment of water supply and latrines; and rehabilitation of water supply
and solid waste treatment in health facilities implementing the SMI program.
Targeting Resources for Health Subproiects.
Investment resources for subprojects would be allocated during the first year of implementation for
each participating department and DISA using annual budgetary ceilings; priority would be given to local
requirements to support the SMI implementation. An indicative department allocation criteria has been made
on the basis of priority maternal and child mortality indicators, the geographical distribution of the target
population, national and departmental poverty indicators and availability of health sector human resources in
the target areas. To ensure that funds are not underutilized, and to provide an incentive for effective
implementation, if despite reasonable support from the PARSALUD Unit the participating departments or
DISAs do not program their full allocation or are not capable of executing fully the programmed resources,
upon review, funds can be reallocated to stronger performers. Subprojects can be requested by DISAs, CLAS
and municipalities. The allocation criteria, formula, review and reallocation procedures are discussed in part in
Annex 2b and details are incorporated in the Operations Manual.
Component 4 - Project Coordination (US$8.0 million)
A PARSALUD project coordination unit (UCP) will be established to coordinate project
implementation (see Annex 2b for organization and function).



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Paae 47
Annex 2b: Project Description
Peru: Health Reform Program
Project Management and Operations Manual
Executing Agencies. The Ministry of Health (MINSA) and the Health Departments in the regions
(Direcciones de Salud or DISAs) would carry out the project in accordance with Operations Manuals
satisfactory to the Bank. MINSA will carry out project activities through its existing units, in accordance
with their area of responsibility, including the SMI Unit which will be created under the project (see Annex
2a for description of these units' project responsibilities). MINSA will enter into implementation contracts
(contratos de ejecucion) with participating DISAs for the provision of services in their jurisdiction under the
SMI and with other eligible entities (INEI) to carry out project activities. The contracting arrangements for
the implementation of each of the project components are discussed below.
Project Coordination. The Ministry will be assisted by a PARSALUD project unit (the UCP) responsible
for overall coordination, supervision and monitoring of project implementation. The Unit will be directly
accountable to MINSA's Alta Direccion (the Minister of Health and the Vice Minister of Health). The Unit
will be headed by a Coordinator (Director) and will count on an Administrative-Financial Manager and a
Technical Manager. The Administrative-Financial Coordinator will be responsible for the coordination of
the financial, physieal and human resources aspects while the Technical Coordinator will be responsible for
coordinating the specialized technical support that would be required each component.  The Unit'
responsibilities will include the following:
*    Promote the project nationally and locally;
Maintain a monitoring system  for physical progress and financial management and prepare
implementation reports twice a year;
*    Supervise the execution of the investments component (health subprojects) to be carried out by the
DISAs;
*    Advice, as needed, the SMI Unit on Bank loan requirements
*    Review the terms of reference submitted by executing entities and MFNSA units, for the hiring of
consultants who will assist in implementing the project components (other than the subprojects), and
channel them to the Bank for prior review, as needed.
*    Ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines;
*    Ensure the auditing of project accounts and other audits required by the Bank
(including the DISA's);
*    Coordinate Bank supervision missions, and
*    Organize the impact evaluation of the project.
The UCP would be responsible for procuring goods and services procurement not subcontracted for DISAs
nor any other agency for execution. The Unit itself would carry out the invitation and evaluation of bids or
may subcontract the process to a qualified procurement agents which will be chosen through a competitive
process. Similarly, it may use the services of INFES, the state civil works agency, for the procurement of
large national civil works. Detailed procedures for each case will be specified in the Operations Manual.
The UCP will supervise the processes for goods, services and civil works procurement that will be carried
out at the DISA level. Regardless of size, contracting would be undertaken for civil works, goods, and
consultants, using procurement procedures and SBDs satisfactory to the Bank. The Unit may retain the
services of PAHO for quality control and supervision in the delivery and installation of medical equipment
procured under the project.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                 Paae 48
SMI Component. An SMI Unit will be established within MINSA and strengthened under the
project to coordinate and supervise the implementation of the SMI, regional offices would be established in
each of the participating departments to carry out local administrative functions. The SMI central unit will
be responsible for assuring that participating health facilities have the necessary equipment, stocks of
supplies and pharmaceuticals covered under the benefits package, for guaranteeing the quality and provision
of services presented for reimbursement and for presenting reimbursement requests to the UCP. Health care
providers would be responsible for procuring their own inputs, local procurement will start immediately after
they receive their reimbursement for services provided. The regional offices would be responsible for
receiving and processing monthly reimbursements and for solving any discrepancies on behalf of health
facilities in their jurisdiction. The SMI central unit will also carry out the necessary start-up promotional
activities, training of DISAs and supervision of the SMI services in the field, including technical and
financial audits. The Unit will have autonomy and flexibility to plan, program, supervise, control and
monitor SMI budget and expenditures. The Unit will have a lean structure composed of a central office in
Lima and a network of small offices located in each region of the country whose role will be primarily to
ensure quality control, supervise the SMI implementation in the health facilities, as well as review, process
and transmit to the DISA and the SMNI central unit requests for reimbursements. The SMI will be headed by a
Director appointed by the Minister of Health. The technical, normative functions (including training,
supervision, monitoring, evaluation) for mother and child services will remain in the Ministry
Investment Component. The DISAs will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Health
Investment Projects within the total indicative amount allocated to each of them at the beginning of the
project year. The allocation criteria have been made on the basis of priority health indicators, the target
population, poverty indicators and availability of health sector human resources. in the target areas. To
ensure that funds are not underutilized, and to provide an incentive for effective implementation, if despite
reasonable support from the Project Management the participating departments or DISAs do not program
their full allocation or are not capable of executing fully the programmed resources, upon review, funds can
be reallocated to stronger performers. The allocation criteria, formula, review and reallocation procedures
will be part of the Operations Manual.
Depending on project cost, the review and approval of each subprojects will either be at the MINSA central
level or at the DISA level in accordance with the Operations Manual. Subprojects above the DISAs limits
will be reviewed and approved by the Comite de Inversion de Salud (CIS) of MINSA. Each DISA will
appoint at least a technical coordinator and a financial administrator for PARSALUD among the existing
DISA staff. Additionally, two technical specialists financed by the project will be assigned to each DISA to
support provide assistance in the preparation of local/regional investment plans and the formulation of
investment subprojects. Detailed procedures for these actions are included in the Operations Manual
presented to the Bank before negotiations.
Promotion. The implementation of the investment component will be kicked off by a national
communications campaign to inforrn the target population about the overall project objectives, activities and
components. Concurrently with the campaign, the UCP, through a team of consultants, health specialists and
NGOs, carefully selected and trained to assist participating DISAs, Redes and CLAS-type organizations,
would aid in the identification of eligible subprojects or investment ideas in accordance with project
objectives and the menu contained in the Operations Manual. The DISAs and Redes would use as a starting
point the local health plans or, when applicable, the regional health plans. Representatives from the Unit
working closely with the DISAs and representatives of local health facilities would visit project areas to
transmit and explain subproject eligibility and appraisal criteria. The promotional activities will be started in
the last quarter of 1999.
Technical Assistance for Decentralization, Policy Development and Institutional Modernization. The
technical assistance to be provided under this component to different entities within MINSA (OGP, DGSP,



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Page 49
OIE, DIGESA, PAAG-PAC), to the municipalities, DISAs, and CLAS will be coordinated by the UCP.
Terms of reference and decision on the consultant services or other types of technical support will be_
prepared and/or decided by these entities. The UCP's will carry out the contracting procedures in
accordance with Bank procurement norms. With regard to the monitoring and evaluation surveys, MINSA
will sign an agreement with INEI to carry out the DHS surveys in 2000 and 2003 and to include the health
module in the quarterly household survey (ENAHO).
Project Supervision. Technical supervision would be contracted out to specialized consultants (individuals
or firms) or local NGOs.  The UCP would supervise the execution of project and guide project
implementation through annual plans, budgets, and reports. The Unit would carefully monitor the utilization
and transfer of technical and financial resources, using a Management Information System. This system will
be used as the basis for operational decision making, and for assuring the timely and efficient compliance
with project objectives. It would also assure that relevant information is available for any adjustment of
procedures, strategies, or resource use during project implementation, or for future investments. Specific
procedures and mechanisms will be part of the project's Operations Manual.
Annual Review of Project Implementation. The project will require extensive and detailed supervision by
the Bank, particularly during the first year. The Bank's supervision schedule for the project will include a
minimum of three missions during the first year of implementation, of which one will be the Annual Review
of Project Implementation, to be carried out in conjunction with the Ministry, PARSALUD and the DISAs.
During the second and third years of project execution, at least two missions will be carried out; one of
which will be the Annual Review. The Annual Review for the third year will also include a review of trigger
indicators, an evaluation of the entire project as part of the APL Program, and the preparation of
recommendations for the commencement and execution of Phase II of the Reform Program. Day to day
supervision support from the Bank Resident Mission will be arranged.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation will measure not only procedures
but also results, thereby allowing the project to learn. A monitoring and evaluation program will be
developed as part of the project to measure especially the project intermediate and final outcomes. With
regard to the investment subprojects, annual ex-post evaluations using random samples of concluded
subprojects, as well as beneficiary assessments will be carried out. These annual ex-post and beneficiary
evaluations will include physical audits of a sample of investment subprojects, with size and characteristics
acceptable to the Bank. Project funds will be utilized for this purpose: recommendations and lessons learned
will be included in the following annual operating plan.
To measure subproject impact, a baseline and control group would be established during the first year of
implementation. In the last year of execution, a representative study would be carried out for the different
types of subprojects, randomly selected, to measure the impact of investment on selected indicators. The
preparation of the baseline would take into account: (i) ethnicity and gender; (ii) recommendations of impact
evaluations of the SMI and CLAS; and (iii) studies of coverage and quality in service delivery and service
demand carried out during project preparation.
With the assistance of DFID, a participatory monitoring and evaluation approach (P&ME) will also be
established in the project. This approach would complement other evaluation and monitoring activities and
strengthen the capacity and skills of health providers and other stakeholders in participatory methodologies
for evaluation and monitoring. It will allow to bring stakeholders together to undertake a process of analysis
of the performance of maternal and child health activities, aid in the identification of solutions mutually
acceptable and responsive to the needs of beneficiaries. It will also provide feedback about areas in which
the project could be failing to achieve stakeholders expectations. Furthermore, these skills will enhance
future developments of the decentralization of health sector.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                               Paae 50
Annex 3
Structure of MINSA Budget
Peru is divided into political Regions responsible for the provision of most public services,
including health care. MINSA's central office is only responsible for the financing and provision
of services in the Lima Region which includes Metropolitan Lima (the city of Lima and the port of
Callao) and the Department of Lima. The regional authorities are appointed to the Ministry of the
Presidency (MINPRE) in consultation with MINSA. Their budgets, including the requirements for
the regional health services, are included in the MINPRE budget. While MINSA in theory is
responsible for policy and planning nationally, in practice it has little influence over activities
financed through MINPRE.8
While the deconcentration of budgets to the regions had been expected to lead to an adaptation of
expenditures to local needs, over the years the regional authorities have reinforced the traditional
structure of the health sector they inherited. Most of their funding is assigned to the payment of
staff in regional hospitals and in the regional administration. Negligible amounts are assigned by
the regions to primary health clinics or to environmental health. The existing budget structure is
described in Box 3-1.
Box 3-1
Structure of the Ministry of Health's Budget
*   MINSA Headquarters (HQ). Its budget finances the health providers in the Lima Region and the
central administration.
*   MINSA Regions. The regional health budgets are included in the budget of the Ministry of the
Presidency (MINPRE) as part of the overall budget for each region.' Funds are provided for the
payroll and some fixed costs. Allocation of additional funds for discretionary expenditures is a
decision of the Region. Payments to the regions are made directly from MEF. MINSA does not have
any participation in the budget process. It is not even informed of regional budget execution.
*   The National Hospitals. Each of these Hospitals (which include the specialized hospitals and the old
and prestigious hospitals that used to belong to the Beneficencia) is budgeted independently.
Although the budget entry is registered as part of the Lima budget, in practice the budget for the
National Hospitals is managed independently by each hospital.
*   The Targeted programs. These programs have independent offices in MINSA HQ which make
transfers for specific activities caffied out by the regions.
s A 1998 law (Ley Marco de Descentralizaci6n) eliminated this organization, which had been in place for a decade and was based on
regions consisting of several Departments, making all public health services dependent on MINSA and centralizing all budget planning
and monitoring in MINSA. This lasted for a few weeks, after which the previous system was reestablished by Congress (but with
Regions consisting each of a single Department).



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Paqe 51
Annex 4
Communicable Diseases in the Regions
Transmittable diseases, especially malaria, AIDS, tuberculosis, yellow fever, among other
vaccine-preventable and non-vaccine preventable diseases are increasing in importance in localized
ecological niches of the country, even though control efforts have been effective for some of them in
recent years.
Malaria - Vivax malaria has been reduced in certain zones, but overall its prevalence has
increased dramatically since 1992, notably in Loreto, Junin, and eastern Ayacucho. More worrisome is
the increase since 1993 of the more lethal strain of malaria, Falciparum, which in 1998 reached 36percent
of all malaria cases in Peru, occurring mainly in Piura, Tumbes, and Loreto. Vector control needs to be
strengthened, according to M1NSA officials, as well as epidemiologic surveillance and education of the
public to ensure prompt seeking of treatment when symptoms occur. Stronger links and coordination on
malaria control are needed among DGSP, DIGESA, INS, and OGE (Oficina General de Epidemiologia).
STD/HIV/AIDS control efforts have been effective among the MSM population since the
epidemic began over a decade ago, but the infection is increasing among sex workers and the
heterosexual population, especially young adults. There are 5,960 AIDS cases in Lima and Callao. Ica,
Loreto, and Ancash follow in prevalence with 169 to 193 cases each. The National STD/IIIV/AIDS
Control Program (PROCETS) is remarkably well-organized with four operational units:
(1)  Integral Health Unit - to eliminate congenital syphilis provides RPR and treatment to pregnant and
postpartum women; to decrease vertical transmission provides counseling and free Elisa testing (if
desired) to pregnant women, AZT to the infected mother and her child, and a 3-month supply of artificial
milk to the infant (budget limitations restrict the amount given); provides care to seropositive patients
(INH for I year and cotrimoxazole for infection prophylaxis); and to control STD operates 21 STD
Referral Centers (CERETS) nation-wide which provides education, diagnosis and treatment for sex
workers.
(2)   Management Strengthening Unit - carries out actions to strengthen management and training in
clinical syndromic management, counseling, and in-service training for the 21 CERETS. (Training is
underbudgetted).
(3)Epidemiologic Intelligence Unit - is responsible for a national information system; conducts sentinel
surveillance among sex workers, pregnant women, MSM, and in prisons.
(4) Interventions for Behavioral Change Unit (Intervenciones para el Cambio de Conducta-ICC) - a
public education campaign with a series of four television spots were planned, of which two have been
implemented; peer-education interventions are being implemented with 120 trained to intervene with sex
workers, 200 with MSM, 240 with young adults, and others to work with prison inmates and drug
dependents.
STD/HIV/AIDS program needs include the following: medicine purchases for HIV/AIDS and STD
patients, funds for supervision-monitoring-evaluation, ICC, more artificial milk for infants of seropositive
mothers. Priority DISAs for STD/HIV/AIDS control are Lima, Callao, in addition to Ica, Loreto,
Ancash, and Arequipa.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                              Paae 52
Tuberculosis - The National Tuberculosis (TB) Program in Peru is recognized worldwide for its
effective strategies for diagnosis and treatment of cases. TB has been reduced by 30-40percent since
1993-94 when national norms were first established. Even so, Peru still ranks among the top 22 countries
in the world with high TB prevalence. The areas with highest rates of cases per inhabitant are Madre de
Dios, Lima, Callao, Tacna, Ica, and Ucayali, while by far the largest number of TB cases are in
Metropolitan Lima and Callao. The goal of MINSA is to provide sustainability to the program over the
next 20 years to bring Peru into the ranks of moderate prevalence countries,, then eventually to low
prevalence.
Yellow Fever - Despite the availability of an effective vaccine, yellow fever is endemic in the
upper Amazon river basins due to the persistence of Aedes aegypty and other strains of mosquitoes.
Although "only" 165 cases were reported in 1998, this illness is lethal with a 30percent case-fatality rate,
causing serious problems with the economic development of the Amazon region. Most cases occur to
migrants from the mountains who have no natural immunity to the disease. Madre de Dios and San
Martin are the two areas most affected by yellow fever. Control efforts are focused on immunization.
The ideal would be mass immunization of the entire Peruvian population (costed at US$24 million plus
IGV), or a second-level strategy of supply a single lifetime dose of vaccine to the entire population
outside of Lima (about 7 percent of the population).
Other immunopreventable diseases - The new vaccines for Hemophylus influenza B (HiB)
and Hepatitis B are currently being provided by MINSA in selected areas. HiB vaccine is given to the
36percent poorest of the population, according to a measure of Insatisfied Basic Needs (NBI), and
Hepatitis B vaccine is being provided in prevalent areas in the Amazon river basins to abut 30percent of
Peru's population. Both vaccines are available in combination with DPT vaccine so that five vaccines
can be provided in one shot to infants at 2, 3, and 4 months of age. Due to the importance of HiB
vaccine to the reduction of pneumonia and meningitis deaths in children, it is desirable to extend
coverage of the quintuple vaccine to 1 OOpercent of all infants. (Cost estimate is US$5 million plus IGV).
Project Strategy. The persistence of transmittable diseases requires implementation of diverse
prevention and control strategies that are congruent with regional and departmental epidemiological and
social-cultural profiles. Strengthening of local and regional responsiveness is needed in the areas of
program development, surveillance, laboratory diagnosis, personnel training, IEC, and community
participation. MINSA funding for transmittable diseases has emphasized diagnosis and provision of
medicines. Less funding has been available for program support activities such as IEC and training.
The investment subproject component of the project would prioritize financing for program
support activities in DISAs and CLAS, especially in regard to malaria, tuberculosis, and AIDS, including:
(i) development and testing of specific strategies for disease control in specific high risk areas, (ii) IEC
activities for health education and promotion among high risk populations, and (iii) continuous training
(tied to supervision and evaluation) due to permanently high rates of personal turn-over in MINSA health
facilities.



Peru: Health Reform Program fPARSALUD)                                                Pace 53
Annex 5
Estimated Project Costs
Local      2. FOREIGN        Total
Project Cost By Component                               US S million
1. Strengthening Health Demand                              140.0            8.0          148.0
2. Strengthening the Decentralization, Policy Development     15.4           6.0           21.4
and Institutional Modernization
3. Improving the Quality of Health Programs and Services      29.0          17.5           46.5
4. Project Coordination                                        6.0            1.5           7.5
Total Baseline Cost                                          190.4          33.0          223.4
Physical Contingencies                                      2.0            .6            2.6
Price Contingencies                                         2.1            .7            2.8
4. LOAN FEES'                                                                10.5          10.5
3. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                       194.5          44.8          239.3
4. TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                                               239.3
1 USS9.7 million of this amount is interest payment for IDB Loan
Local      5. FOREIGN        Total
Project Cost by Category                               US S million
Works                                                    10.0            4.0           14.0
Goods                                                    19.5           10.0           29.5
Technical Assistance (includes training and              28.5           10.7           39.2
capacity building, audits/evaluation and consulting
services
SMI Reimbursements                                      130.0            8.0          138.0
Administration Costs                                      3.9            1.0            4.9
Recurrent Cost                                            2.6             .6            3.1
Loan Fees                                                               10.51          10.5
6. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  194.5           44.8          239.3
1 uZo9. / million ol uIns amount is interest payment for IDB loan



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                        Paae 54
Annex 6
Financial Summary
Years Ending
o   2000       2001         20          2003    l2004        Total
Total Finaning Required
Project Costs
Investient Costs                15.0        67.1        70.3        51.3         22.0      225.7
Recurrent Costs                  0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7          0.3        3.1
Loan Fees'                       2.8         2.0         2.0         2.0          1.7       10.5
Total Project Costs                 18.5        69.8        73.0        54.0        24.0       239.3
Financing
IBRD                                 3.0        22.0        30.0        18.0          7.0       80.0
BID                                  5.5        25.0        28.0        20.0          8.5       87.0
OPEC                                 4.0         4.0                                             8.0
Govemment                            6.0        18.8        15.0        16.0          8.5       64.3
Total Project Financing             18.5        69.8        73.0        54.0        24.0       239.3
I US$9.7 million of this amount is interest payment for IDB Loan



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Paae 55
Annex 7
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Peru: Health Reform Program
Procurement
Works, goods and services as well as the contracting of consultants will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guideline for Procurement (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999), the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. The
UCP will supervise all procurement action under the project, based on agreed procurement
procedures as defined in the Operations Manual. The Procurement section of the Operations
Manual will include, in addition to. the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents
to be used in each case, as well as contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations. Where no
relevant standard contract exists, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. The
supervision of procurement and hiring processes would be the responsibility of the UCP and the
DISAs (in the case of the health investments). UNOPS, PAHO and other eligible procurement
agents may be retained competitively by the UCP for the purposes of carrying out international
procurement actions on behalf of the project or for the provision of specialized technical assistance
services, and INFES, the state agency responsible for public works, may be retained for carrying
out the procurement of large national civil works, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
Procurement of Civil Works
(a)National Competitive Bidding, NCB: will be used for all contracts, for the rehabilitation of
health facilities, in an amount greater than US$100,000 equivalent. NCB procedures must not
discriminate against foreign bidders;
(b)Price comparison: at least three quotations will be used for contracts in an amount less than
U$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate limit of US$1.5 million.
Procurement of Goods
(a) International Competitive Bidding, ICB: contracts for medical equipment and/or instruments in
an amount equal or greater than US$250,000 equivalent will be awarded using ICB;
(b)National Competitive Bidding, NCB: contracts for computers, printers, software, office
furniture and equipment, educational materials, furniture, video-cameras, syringes, and
miscellaneous in an amount less than US$250,000 equivalent but equal or greater than
US$100,000 equivalent will be awarded using NCB up to an aggregate limit of US$2.0
million.
(e)Price comparison (local and international shopping, LS, IS): contracts for medical equipment
and/or instruments, computers, printers, software, office furniture and equipment, educational
materials, furniture, video-cameras and miscellaneous items in packages costing more than
US$50,000 equivalent but less than US$100,000 will be awarded using international price



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                              Paae 56
comparison up to an aggregate limit of US$1.0 million, with quotations obtained from several
suppliers, and contracts less that US$50,000 equivalent will be awarded using local price.
comparison up to an aggregate limit of US$700,000, with quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers.
Procurement of Services
Contracts for services, including technical assistance, capacity building activities and training will
be procured following the Bank's Guidelines and using standard contracts, as follows: (i)
Procurement for IEC (Publicity and preparation of education programs), Information Systems,
Design and Revision of Norms and Protocols equal or above US$80,000 will be selected using
Quality and Cost-Based Selection procedures; (ii) feasibility studies, work supervision, financial
and procurement audits, impacts and training below US$80,000 but higher than US$50,000 will
be selected using Selection under a Fixed Budget or Least Cost Selection procedures up to an
aggregate limit of US$4.0 million; (iii) other consulting services below US$50,000 may be
procured using Consultant Qualifications procedures up to an aggregate limit of US$500,000;
(iv) consulting services including long-term consultants in the Unit equal or below US$50,000 but
higher than US$7,000 will be awarded using Short Lists, and for amounts under US$7,000 using
Individual Consultants' Qualifications, as described in chapter V of the Guidelines.
Institutional Capacity Assessment
A capacity assessment with an analysis of legal aspects, project management, organization and
functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general procurement environment,
private sector assessment, and overall risk assessment was conducted for the proposed project. The
assessment included meetings with the UCP and with other officials from the Ministry of Health,
the SMI, and the DISAs. The project has been rated as "average risk" with respect to procurement
aspects. Specific recommendations from the capacity assessment have been incorporated in the
Operational Manuals.
Procurement under the SMI. The largest project component, the Maternal-Child Health Care
Insurance (SMI) has been under a pilot program since November 1999 in two regions: Tacna and
Moyobamba. The assessment included a visit to the pilot program in Tacna and a review of the
ongoing implementation of the SMI. By design, this project would not finance directly the
procurement actions under the SMI reimbursements. The SMI will reimburse all final health
services providers in monetary value (local currency) and not in-kind with supplies. Health
services providers will organize themselves for the provision of medical services, medical
equipment and medicines to beneficiaries of the SMI according to specific technical and quality
criteria established and monitored by the SMI. The SMI Operational Manual elaborates on the
mechanisms and procedures for procurement, as well as on a permanent auditing system that
reviews the: procedures for beneficiary affiliation, the quality of medical services provided, the
number of medical controls and clinical history of beneficiaries, the provision of medicines
(including purchases and stocks), cost of services provided, and overall services rendered and
presented for reimbursement by health providers.
During negotiations it was agreed that small goods and sundry items for the SMI reimbursement
program to be used by non-public service providers would be procured in accordance with
established private sector practices; and those to be used by public service providers shall be
procured, as far as practicable, from qualified suppliers either in bulk or through regional or local
procurement procedures and in accordance with the SMI regulations. Likewise, it was agreed that
a comprehensive review of the institutional procurement procedures relating to the SMI program



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                              Paae 57
would be carried out during the first six months of project implementation and that an action plan
to strengthen these procedures would be agreed upon as a result of that review, both the_
comprehensive procurement review and the implementation of the action plan will be financed
under the project. It was agreed also that periodic independent medical audits would be carried out
to monitor and evaluate the reimbursement applications submitted by eligible health establishments
and to determine whether the obligations of said establishments under the SMI regulations have
been fully complied with.
Procurement under other project components: health investment subprojects and technical
assistance will consist of procurement of small civil works for physical rehabilitation and
expansion of primary health care facilities; purchase of medical equipment, furniture, educational
materials, computers; and consulting services for specific studies and training to strengthen the
capacity of municipalities, DISAS and CLAS. Bank-trained and experienced staff from the Basic
Health and Nutrition Project (PSNB) financed by the Bank will carry out some of these functions at
the Central level but the bulk of the activities will be conducted at the local level by the DISAs.
The Procurement Specialist who conducted the capacity assessment prepared and agreed with the
Borrower on an action plan to strengthen the procurement capacity of the DISAs and other local
actors and made specific recommendations for monitoring of their actions by the UCP.
Recommendations of the capacity assessment included in the Loan Agreement and/or Project
Operational Manuals:
*  Special provisions to address discrepancies between the National Law and Bank Procurement
Guidelines
*  A project launching seminar on Procurement, at the beginning of the project, to train staff at
MINSA, the DISAs, the health establishments and the UCP.
*  Close scrutiny of initial bidding documents prepared by the DISAs for procurement of civil
works and goods, combined with technical assistance
*  Comprehensive review of the institutional procurement procedures during the SMI program to
be carried out during the first six months of project implementation
*  Improvement of the filing system for record keeping at the UCP
*  Careful selection and follow-up training for procurement staff at the DISA level
*  Execution of periodic independent medical audits to monitor and evaluate the reimbursement
applications submitted by eligible health establishments and to determine whether the
obligations of said establishments under the SMI regulations have been fully complied with.
Procurement Review
Prior review by the Bank (Table B) will include: (i) all International Competitive Bidding; (ii) the
first two contracts in works and goods awarded on the basis of NCB every year; (iii) the first
contract in works under Quotations procedure every year and simplified prior review for the first
two works contracts by the DISAs every year; (iv) simplified prior review for the first contract of
goods using International Shopping (IS), and the first two contracts using NCB procedure every
year; and (v) procurement arrangements in accordance with Appendix 2 of the IDA Guidelines.
The rest of the procurement of works and goods will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
Regarding review of consultant services: (i) all Terms of Reference and contracts greater than
US$80,000 equivalent for consultant services provided by firms and financial and procurement
audits will be subject to prior review, and (ii) for individual consultants less than US$50,000
equivalent twice yearly program and based on the program selection of TORs to be reviewed, (iii)



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Page 58
for individual consultants and personal services less than US$7,000 equivalent twice yearly
program.
To facilitate the process, the Unit will submit to the Bank a plan for the contracting of consultants
with relevant TORs and cost estimates as part of the Operation Plan every six months. A
procurement plan for the first year of the project, indicating the needs, procurement methodology,
time frames and other relevant details will be presented during negotiations. Such a plan will be
updated on an annual basis "every January" during the entire life of the project, and whenever it is
considered necessary by the Bank.
Under these arrangements, the prior review of approximately 34 percent of the estimated value of
project items is expected. Additionally: (i) as part of the annual ex-post review of subprojects,
external procurement auditors, contracted by the Unit under the loan, will conduct quarterly
performance audits covering technical, environmental, managerial and procurement aspects of a
sample of subprojects satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) this audit of procurement aspects will include
both physical audits and the procurement procedures used, so that the Bank can judge whether
procurement implementation is satisfactory; (iii) the project information and monitoring system
will be used to compare costs of similar subprojects in order to detect possible discrepancies
which might indicate procurement problems and the need for further analysis; accuracy of data in
the project information system will also be checked through the audits; and (iv) the Bank's
supervision missions will conduct random reviews, including frequent field visits and review of
procurement documentation. The systematic review of the first two contracts for NCB, and the
first contract for other methods, every year will help monitor quality and consistency in the
application of Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures agreed for the project. Efforts would
be made for a procurement specialist to be part of the supervision missions, which are expected to
be a minimum of four the first year.
Financial management
Disbursement: A four year period for loan disbursement is estimated with effectiveness expected
on March 1, 2000, a Project Completion Date of June 30, 2003, and a Loan Closing Date of
December 31, 2003. An amount of up to US$5.0 million of eligible expenditures made after July
31, 1999, may be financed retroactively from the loan account. Table C shows the allocations of
the proceeds of the loan. Semi-annual plans would be the mechanism for making disbursement
estimates and measuring disbursement performance. Disbursements would be made against the
following categories:
1. Civil Works - Expansion and rehabilitation of health services, micro drinking water systems,
solid and liquid waste disposal systems for health service centers and markets (85 percent).
2. Goods - Computers, medical instruments and equipment, general furmiture, administrative and
educational equipment, fumiture and vaccines (100 percent foreign expenditures and 85
percent local expenditures).
3. Consulting Services and Training - Expenditures for: technical studies related to the reform
program, consultants of the UCP, SMI and CLAS support units, the comprehensive review of
institutional procurement relating to the SMI program, the independent financial and medical
audits, the INEI agreement for the monitoring and evaluation indicators, and training
expenditures (i.e. information, education and communication (IEC), reform dissemination
workshop and seminars, project evaluation, capacity building and study tours) (100 percent).



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Paae 59
4. SMI Program (Reimbursements) - Reimbursements to health facilities for the provision of
services rendered under the SMI. Reimbursements will be carried out on declining rate: 90
percent until withdrawals reach an aggregate amount of US$12 million, 75 percent until
withdrawals reach an aggregate amount of US$30 million, and 60 percent thereafter.
5. Project Administration. Operating costs for the UCP including rental of office space, office
supplies services of public utilities and travel expenses (85 percent).
This Project would comply with the principles and concepts of the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI), whereby quarterly Bank disbursements are tied to financial statements, project
progress reports, and procurement management reports. Initially the Unit will follow the
traditional disbursement system, but would move onto Quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMRs) as it completes the action plan recommended by the Financial-Management Specialist and
agreed with the Borrower, and gains famniliarity with Bank project operating procedures and
receives required training. The move onto PMR-based disbursement would be expected to be no
later than 18 months after Loan effectiveness date.
Until PMR-based disbursement procedures are adopted, a Special Account in US Dollars would be
established at a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank with an
authorized allocation of US$8.0 million. The advance to the Special Account would be limited to
US$3 million until disbursements from the loan would have reached US$7.0 million. Most of
disbursements, including SMI Reimbursements and investment subprojects, are expected to be
disbursed through SOEs and, eventually, through PMRs. For all other expenditures, e.g., contracts
for consultant services over threshold levels of US$50,000 with individuals or $80,000 with firms
and contracts for goods valued above $250,000, full supporting documentation would be required.
The Special Account should be maintained in a depositary bank in a way that satisfies the
requirements listed in Annex A of OP 12.2. Bank statements would show all transactions in and out
of the account, including amounts advanced and reimbursed by the World Bank, and the balance at
the end of each month.
Upon moving to the PMR system, both the Bank and the Borrower would make sufficient funds
available to finance the first six months of Project operation. The Bank's initial deposit into the
Special Account (SA) covering a six month period of operation should not exceed US$16.0
million. Replenishment of the Bank's portion of these expenses would be contingent upon
satisfactory advancement of the Project as indicated by quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMR) submitted to the Bank by Government. Government would maintain full documentation of
Project expenses available for periodic review by the Bank and independent auditors.
Operation of the Special Account and the SMI disbursement. The UCP will operate and
maintain the Special Account and will process reimbursement requests for the SMI as follows:
*  Health care providers, through the DISAs, will submit reimbursement requests for services to
the local SMI office on a monthly basis.
*  The local SMI office will verify and consolidate the reimbursement requests from providers in
its jurisdiction, review, approve them and forward them to the SMI central office. Local SMI
offices are also responsible for quality supervision and control of services provided.
*  The central SMI office will verify and consolidate all reimbursement requests and issue
payment authorizations (ordenes de pago) to the OGA in the Ministry of Health.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Page 60
*  The OGA will then request the UCP to transfer resources (in local currency) from the Special
Account to the SMI-designated account in the OGA to cover payment authorizations and in_
turn will deposit them, in the account of the respective health care providers, the same day. The
entire process is expected to be completed within 30 days from start to finish. Confirmation of
each deposit will be forwarded to the UCP as a receipt from each transaction.
For all other project activities and components, the UCP will issue payments directly from the
Special Account. The detail for the above procedures has been examined by Bank financial-
management staff and are included in the respective Project Operations Manuals.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The UCP will benefit from the
long experience gained in project accounting and internal control procedures used during the
implementation of the ongoing Basic Health and Nutrition Project. For this project, the UCP is in
the process of fine-tuning the establishment of a financial department headed by a qualified
financial officer and sufficiently staffed by accountants to keep adequate records specific to the
project and prepare the financial statements and auxiliary staff to execute financial operations and
provide control over project assets. It is expected that the financial staff who worked with both the
ongoing Bank and IDB projects in the past five years will continue to work with the PARSALUD
UCP. The UCP is also in the process of installing a project-specific general ledger which will
provide the basis for government reporting and will support the preparation of the Report 1 of the
PMR. This system will have a double-entry automated accounting system comprising a general
ledger and supporting subsidiary records (check register, journal ledger and individual asset
records). The account structure used to record expenditures will comprise three classifications: the
government budget classifications, the component and sub-component of the Project document,
loan categories, sources of funds, and contracts. The automated accounting system would be Y2K
compliant and contain required security features.
The project will develop and document the detailed procedures for all financial operations of the
Project. These should include descriptions of the following: job descriptions, cash receipts,
disbursements, control over advances, replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and
controls, and reporting requirements. The unit would include these in the Operations Manual.
The financial management system has been evaluated by a Bank Financial-Management Specialist
and is deemed not adequate yet to PMR requirements. However, it does have an adequate
accounting, record-keeping and reporting system for an SOE-based operation, especially
considering that the project is already a follow-up to an existing Bank health loan in MINSA. For
the purposes of carrying out the Project, deposits into the Special Account and their replenishments
will be made on the basis of cash withdrawals statements based initially on Statements of
Expenditure. Similarly the Unit will execute an action plan to develop the capacity to produce all
components of the quarterly PMR, as required under LACI, no later than 18 months after Loan
Effectiveness. An Action Plan for setting up a PMR-based system has been agreed to and includes
the following: (a) preparation of a revised project chart-of-accounts, (b) establishment of a format
for periodic and annual reporting, (c) a revised project Operational Manual incorporating
satisfactory financial and accounting policies for the project, (d) installation of a PMIR compatible
computerized system, (e) a training program on PMR for all project senior staff, and (f) selection of
a private firm to carry out the project external audit.
Following conversion to PMR-based disbursements, replenishments to the Special Account would
be based on cash forecasts contained in quarterly Project Management Reports. Each of these
reports would: (i) show actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively
and for the period, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the following
six-months; (ii) list separately expenditures financed out of the credit during the period covered by



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Page 61
the report and expenditures proposed to be financed during the following six-month period; (iii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered, and explain variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets-,
and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts
financed from the credit for the period covered.
Audit Arrangements. The Project accounts, including contracts and their modifications and
amendments, as well as the deposits and withdrawals from the Special Account would be audited
each year by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition to the annual financial statements conforming to International
Standards on Auditing (IFAC Standards), the audit report would include comments on the internal
control, the accuracy and propriety of all expenditures and the extent to which supporting
information could be relied upon as a basis for requesting disbursements from the loan using
PMRs. The auditors would issue an opinion on the internal control structure at mid-year for each
year of project execution. The first such opinion would be submitted within three months of loan
effectiveness. Annual audit reports with the related statements would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The Borrower would also submit to the
Bank unaudited quarterly financial statement prepared by the auditors starting four months after
effectiveness. All supporting records would be maintained at the Project site for at least one year
after the completion of the Project. The Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (FARAH), published in January 1995, would be used by auditors, in accordance with
existing World Bank procedures. The Borrower agreed during negotiations to complete the
selection of the external auditing firm as a condition of Loan effectiveness.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                               Paae 62
Annex 7, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for Bank-Financed Purchases
(in US$million equivalent)
Total cost
Expenditure Category            ~~~Procuemen lmeio                        (including
1. Works                                            1.61         1.15        11.24           14.0
(1.4)        (1.0)9                      (2.4)
2. Goods                                            2.3          1.73        25.47           29.5
(4.6)        (2.0)        (1.5)'                     (8.1)
3. Consultant Services and                                                   39.2           39.2
Training: including consultants,
technical assistance, training,
capacity building activities, audits,
and project evaluations.
(17.6)"1                    (17.6)
4. SMI Program                                                  70.3         67.70          138.0
(50.0)12                    (50.0)
5. Project Administration                                        2.25         2.65            4.9
l  l   l   -  (1.2)      .  (1.2)
6. Recurrent Cost                  ____   _                  ____:l_0 _       3.2             3.2
IDB LOAN Interest Payment                                                     9.7             9.7
Front-end fee                                                                 0.8             0.8
(0.8)                       (0.8)
Total                                            3.91        75.43        159.96         239.3
(4.6)        (3.4)      (71.3)                       (80.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
9 Three quotations
10 Shopping
" See Table A-I
12 No procurement actions involved.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                          Page 63
Annex 7, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
&;Wh            AM                                                                                --S-- TO*Is-
QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS        CQ       Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                                                                                    30.0         30.0
(8.3)               (6.0)     (0.9)                                     (15.2)
B. Individuals                                                                               9.2          9.2
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____ ___   _ ____ __   __ ____ __  __ ____ _   ___ ____   ____ ____ (2 .3 )  (2 .3 )
Total                                                                39.2          39.2
(8.3)               (6.0)     (0.9)               (2.3)                  (17.6)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                                 Page 64
Annex 7, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 13
Prourmet  tema   'e Conat ' V iue i0 ;00010;0 ProcurrementMethod                                  Rev0 0 0 0;     iew0 
1. Civil Works            >US$100,000                        NCB                    Prior-review of first two contracts every year
<US$100,000      Three Quotations from Qualified Contractors  Prior-review of first contract
14
2. Goods
2.1 General            2 US$250,000                       ICB                    Prior-review of all contracts
'US$100,000                       NCB15                   Prior review of first two contracts every year
Simplified prior-review of first contract every
<US$100,000               Shopping (International)16     year
Simplified post-review: random sample of
sUS$50,000                  Shopping (Local)'7            contracting documents
3. Services
3.1 Firms               > US$80,000                       QCBS                    Prior-review: all TORs, short lists (including
full review of technical and combined
evaluations)
<US$80,000                     SFB/LCS'8                 Prior-review: annual program and TORs for
and                                              financial and procurement audits
>US$50,000
Ex-post review
<US$50,000                        CQ'9
3.2 Individual         < US$50,000                      Short lists              Prior-review: professional services, twice
Consultant's                   and                                               yearly review of program of contracting.
> US$7,000                                               Program to specify which TORs will be
reviewed. Post-review: random sample of
contracting documents.
>US$50,000           Selection of Individual Consultants  Prior-review: professional services, twice
< US$7,000                                              yearly review of program of contracting.
Post-review: random sample of contracting
documents
Total Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review = 33.9 percent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months during the first year and later in every 12
months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
13 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
14 Up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million equivalent
'5 Up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent
16 Up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent
17 Up to an aggregate amount of US$700,000 equivalent
I Up to an aggregate amount of US$4.0 million equivalent
19 Up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                     Page 65
Annex 7, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$ thousand        Financing Percentage
equivalent
1. Civil Works
2.0                   85 percent
2. Goods
8.0               100 percent of foreign
expenditures
85 percent of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services and Training
17.0                   100 percent
4. SMI Program                                  50.0            90% percent until withdrawals
have reached an aggregate
amount of US$12 million; 75
percent withdrawals have reached
and aggregate amount of US$30
million. and 60 percent thereafter.
5. Project Administration                        1.0                    85 percent
6. Frond-end fee                                  .8
Total Project Costs                             78.8
Unallocated              1.2
Total                                           80.0



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                                                    Paoe 66
Annex 8
Benefit Incidence of Health Expenditures20
Per capita consumption of health goods and services is about 4.5 times higher in the top quintile than in the
bottom quintile. This difference, while very large, is less than the difference in total consumption (a ratio of
1:7.5). The consumption of health care combines a private element with benefits channeled by MINSA and
ESSALUD (formerly IPSS). Most of the inequality in health care consumption results from the assignment
of greater amounts of private expenditure to health care by the rich than by the poor (top to bottom quintile
ratio of health expenditures of 1:10). This is a common pattern as health care is a good whose consumption
normally rises with income or faster.
The inequality in the consumption of health benefits is reinforced by ESSALUD, which serves mostly
formal sector employees and their families and these are concentrated in the higher echelons of the income
distribution.2' MINSA  expenditures reduce the overall inequality, but are not large enough or sufficiently
well targeted among the poor to significantly equalize expenditures.
Ministry of Health's (MIINSA) Market Share for
Outpatient Services In 1994 and 1997 (% of total)
Lint.
Urban Coast
Rural Coast
Urban Si....
oral Si-rra
Urban Amazon 
oural Umaooo
TOTAL 
CUrinhilo  lib    0 0 1 __________________________
htinOil. 2
Douinil.s                        i i 1994
GOJjnl.l 4  _       _U 1997
OroirIlal 5._
0       20       40      bO       80
Sororon:ENNIV 1994-ad 1SOT
The distribution of MINSA expenditures is aimost proportional to the population, in the sense of similar
nominal amounts being directed to the poor and to the non-poor. The poorest 20% of the population
receive a slightly lower per capita subsidy than the rest of the population. However, in proportion to their
income this benefit is significantly higher for this group than it is for the rest of the population: for the
20 Benefit incidence analysis combines the cost of providing public services with information on their use in order to generate distributions of the
benefit of govemment spending. This has become an established approach since the path-breaking work by Meemman (1979) on Malasia and
Selowsky (1979) on Colombia. The benefit incidence analysis presented in this study involved a three step methodology. First, estimates were
obtained of the unit subsidy of: (i) consultations in PHC, (ii) ambulatory consultations in hospitals, and (iii) inpatient consultations in hospitals.
These estimates were obtained based on 1997 budgets and 1997 ENNIV utilization data. Second, the unit subsidy was distributed to individuals
who were identified from ENNIV as users of the service. Third, individuals were aggregated into five quintiles (each including a fifth of the
population) based on the total per capita expenditures of the household.
21 Within the formal sector workers, ESSALUD may bring some progressivity. Indirect calculations based on ENNIV (which did not ask for
information about social security contributions) suggest that the top quintile may be paying around 51% of ESSALUD revenues and is benefiting
from 33% of expenditures. The bottom 60% maybe contributing to 26% of the cost and receiving 38% of the benefits.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                  Page 67
poorest it adds about 5% to their total consumption; for the richest quintile, it adds only 1% to their total_
consumption. The importance of MINSA is largest for the bottom 20% who obtain 70% of their health
benefits from this source compared to 20% for the richest quintile.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                  Paae 68
Annex 9
Participation and Social Communication Strategies
A Social Assessment (SA) has been carried out to detect the relevant cultural patterns of users and of
providers of health care (stakeholders), and to understand gaps that impede the improvement and use of
health services in general; and the adequate participation of beneficiaries in the proposed health insurance
scheme, in the formation and operation of CLAS-type organizations, and in the formulation of local health
plans, in particular. The SA includes: (a) the identification and analysis of relevant stakeholders, (b) a
bibliographic review of similar prior work carried out in Peru; and (c) surveys and focus groups of
beneficiaries and health personnel.
The SA combines quantitative and qualitative approaches focusing on three areas: (i) A review and
analysis of existing studies and publications about the problems of clients, use of services, and the
interaction between the service provider and users; (ii) a survey of attitudes and behaviors of the indigenous
populations with reference to their utilization of health services and their interaction with service providers;
(iii) focus groups held among users to assess the use of health services and the behavior of the residents
towards solving their health problems.
A desktop review of existing studies show that key among issues blocking access to health services are the
following:
*     Medical barriers characterized by service providers' lack of knowledge about the problems of the
population that they attend, particularly those of women.
*     Mistreatment and discrimination, directed mainly against migrant populations.
*      .Lack of awareness among the population in the area of preventive health.
e     Limited response capacity of the health services, which is also frequently inappropriate, insufficient,
and delayed.
*     Lack of economic resources among the migrant population.
*     The migrant population's distrust of formal medicine and their use of ethnic medicine and household
remedies.
*     The functional instability of health service providers, particularly in the public sector.
*     The lack of incentives and low pay for medical personnel.
*     The scarce or nonexistent administrative and management capacity to organize efficient health
services.
Primary Conclusions:
*     Coverage cannot be increased without a corresponding increase in quality of service.
*     A clear under utilization of health services was noted, due to the lack of confidence in those
services, support and contributions to the user by health personnel and a lack of emergency service
outside of normal hours.
*     Habitual users of health services, when sick, continue to first seek family council. Others prefer to
go directly to the pharmacy and/or health center. As a result, many other variables should be taken
into account, such as healers, midwives, shaman, etc.
*     Existing confidence in health services by users is fundamentally due to the lack of any other
alternative.
*     Health service clients lack knowledge about their rights and obligations, which would allow: (i)
their informed and active participation; (ii) their integration in problem solving; and (iii) information
on health services maintenance and the surveillance of quality of attention.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                  Page 69
*     It is perceived that health personnel do not always understand the urgent necessity of solving the
barrier to quality of attention produced by a lack of materials and supplies; it is for this motive that a
large part of health service clients decide not to return to health services.
*     One main problem in patient dissatisfaction is the delay in receiving attention, along with the short
duration of the consultation. Many patients were observed to wait up to 3 hours, only to receive a
very brief medical consultation. This combination, aggravated by cultural and linguistic barriers,
makes it impossible to address all of the patient's worries.
*     The lack of capacity and goodwill among health service personnel leads to the perception among
service users that health personnel frequently do not help patients.
*     The high percentage of patient complaints about the attention received demonstrates that patient
dissatisfaction is very high. Among the most frequent complaints is the lack of medical attention
due to poor organization.
Additionally, the DISAs, health care personnel and CLAS-type organizations (health facilities with
community participation) in key target areas were systematically consulted during project preparation,
particularly on the proposed arrangements for the insurance scheme and on their needs for local capacity
building. Primary beneficiaries are currently being consulted through focus groups and through satisfaction
surveys as part of the Social Assessment activities. These instruments will be used annually to monitor
satisfaction with the services supported by the project. As part of the project launch, communities,
municipalities, departments, donors and NGOs will be invited to participate in meetings and other
promotional activities where the objectives and proposed implementation of the project will be discussed.
Participation and Social Communication Strategies for Key Project Activities/Components.
The holistic nature of this project focuses on issues of access to basic health services and their quality and
coverage, through its various components. Chief among the project activities during the first phase of the
project is the support for the expansion of the maternal-child insurance scheme (SMI), which as the center
piece of the intervention is supported by investments in infrastructure and equipment to raise the quality of
services in health facilities, IEC activities to change patterns of behavior in the population and to promote
healthy living; and technical assistance to increase/improve community participation in the administration
of health services through the CLAS and in the definition of local health priorities through the
local/regional health plans.
Accordingly, a multi-media social communication strategy to ensure the success of each of these three
project activities is currently being developed in parallel with the Social and Environmental Assessments.
The recommendations from these studies will translate into specific guidelines for project activities and
project staff to be included in the Operational Manual and would be the basis for the production of printed
materials and training modules for health staff and beneficiaries.
The center piece of the multi-media social communication strategy would be the promotion among the
general public of the maternal-child health care insurance scheme as an strategy to reduce maternal-infant
mortality rates and as the right of the beneficiaries to have access permanently to maternal-child health care
services. It will also promote knowledge, behavior and health practices that will contribute significantly to
reduce preventable risks among the maternal-child population by mobilizing civil society, community
organizations and relevant stakeholders in a national effort to guarantee the right to a health, quality life for
mothers and children.
It would also open spaces for participation of civil society in the building of a national consensus for the
expansion of the maternal-child health care insurance scheme and for making the continuous improvement
of maternal-child health care services, a national priority.



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                            Paae 70
Key Strategic Elements
1. Take advantage of available technical and institutional resources in IEC, marketing a/o social
communication already developed by national and international organizations, NGOs and other externally
funded programs in Peru.
2. Acknowledge the role of stakeholders at various levels in the implementation/expansion of the insurance
scheme and use a multi-level integrated approach to the communications strategy, through: (i) IEC
activities, (ii) motivational activities, (iii) promotional activities, and (iv) inter-institutional communication.
3. Accompany the entire process of launch, expansion and implementation of the insurance scheme.
4. Develop a logical framework to guide communication activities during the promotion and
implementation of the insurance scheme.
Key Components of the Communication Strategy
1. An ongoing institutional integrated communications program for health personnel.
2. A social marketing campaign at the local level with participation by community organizations,
beneficiaries, NGOs and tailor-made for each specific region.
3. An ongoing promotional campaign at the national level using different media (television, radio and
printed media).
Project Strategies for the Indigenous People
The Peruvian indigenous population is primarily located in rural areas and its composed of approximately
70 ethnic and linguistic groups which, according to the 1992 Census of Indigenous Communities, make up
a total of 8,793,295 persons, of which 8 million are of Quechua-Andean descent, 603,000 are Aymara, and
190,295 are Amazonian dispersed populations. They are organized in 5,666 peasant communities and
1,450 indigenous communities.
Available information shows clear linkages between Andean indigenous groups and the poorest segments
of the population at the district level; infant mortality rates among Amazonian groups are three times the
national average, fertility rates 3 to 5 times higher. Andean and Amazonian indigenous groups have
limited access to health services stemming from physical, economic and cultural barriers.
Key Barriers
Physical            Low availability of Health Services
Limited geographical access
Economic            High costs of medical services and medications
High opportunity costs
Inadequate price and exemptions policies
Cultural            Different concepts of sickness and health
Lack of preventive or self-nourishing behavior
Different concepts and patterns of nutrition
Difficulty to distinguish the relevance of traditional and western medicine



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                            Page 71
when diagnosing and treating illness
Relationships and competence between traditional and western health providers.
Cultural inadequacy in the provision of health services
Negative perception about the quality of health services
Limited, non-institutional community participation in the provision of health
services.
Lack of conduits for citizen participation in Health.
Key Strategic Elements
* Inter and intra-institutional coordination and consensus building to improve access and participation of
indigenous groups.
* Increased inforned user participation to generate higher quality in the provision of health services.
* Participation of indigenous groups through their traditional organizations in the identification of their
needs and the design and implementation of alternative solutions.
* Acknowledge and recognition of the value of traditional medicine and its practitioners to promote
alliances that can improve health services.
e Incorporate IEC strategies to improve participation in health interventions for indigenous groups, and
- Incorporate in the Social Communication strategies and intercultural approach.
Key Components of the Indigenous Strategy
1. A comprehensive communications package to improve access and participation of the indigenous
groups in the benefits of PARSALUD which will include PRAs with indigenous groups, CAP exercises
and systematization of existing information.
2. Strengthening the capacity of MINSA in the communication and promotion of health interventions
targeting indigenous groups through the creation of spaces for exchange and development of appropriate
methodologies and instruments for effective communication, both at the central and local levels, and
through pilot projects.
3. Promotion of alliances for the development of healthy indigenous populations through the creation of
spaces for building consensus and exchanges between technical and social groups: (a) community alliances,
(b) alliances with civil society, and (c) alliances between different govermnent agencies.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                               Paae 72
Annex 10
Letter of Social Policy from the Government of Peru
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
MINISTRYF HEALTH
Lima, Peru. November 1, 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
It is my pleasure to present this Letter of Development Policy, outlining the basic strategies that Peru
intends to implement during the first phase of the Health Reform Program currently being negotiated with the
World Bank.
The challenge we face as a country is to build an equitable, efficient, and high quality health sector,
capable of overcoming Peru's health problems today. The major characteristics that we seek for the new
health sector are:
An equitable health sector. Present inequitable access to services results in inevitable
occurrence of preventable diseases and physical damage. Joint and complementary actions by
relevant agencies and their service units should allow us to increase coverage and work toward
universal coverage, with special priority to poor and vulnerable population.
An efficient health sector, which maximizes the impact of its allocated resources, streamlines
the technical processes underlying health service output, satisfies both beneficiaries and health
personnel, and actually solves the health problems. Efficiency in the health sector will be
geared to achieving the maximum return on resources, enhancing both outcomes and
sustainability. Social security in health is an important area for articulation of public and the
private sector participation.
A quality-oriented health sector, focusing on user-satisfaction and on increasing the human
warmth and effectiveness of the services provided by technical and administrative staff; an
organization shaped by an ethical culture, and committed to its mission of providing excellent
health care to all the inhabitants of Peru.
The medium-term objectives of the health sector are:
1.    To expand access to improved health services, with particular emphasis on equity and on
comprehensive care for low-income groups, while at the same time regulating and supervising the
work of different subsectors comprising the health sector.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                 Paae 73
2.    To continue developing the quality of primary health care by improving infrastructure, equipment, and
human resources.
3.    To reinforce structural reform efforts within the Ministry of Health, changing the way funds are
allocated so that they bear more relation to stimulating service productivity and refining the new
management, benefits, and funding models currently being applied;
4.    To continue decentralization in the health sector, while promoting social participation and the shared
responsibility of the state and society for the provision of health care;
5.    To continue the modernization of the social security mechanisms to pay for health care, increasing the
number of insured and raising the quality of the benefits provided; and
6.    To promote health research oriented to the development of health services.
The core activities of the Reform Program fall within the framework of the Peruvian Government's
current poverty reduction policy, which targets the most disadvantaged segments of the population.
The Program's overriding objective is to provide support for efforts to modemize and reform the
health system in Peru and improve the health of the population by extending access to effective, efficient,
high quality health services. The program is geared to solving the population's principal health problems,
especially maternal-child morbidity and mortality.
Specific objectives are:
(a)   To reduce matemal-child morbidity and mortality rates by lowering the economic, physical, and
cultural barriers to use of mother-child health care services by poor and vulnerable segments of the
population;
(b)   To strengthen public health interventions, particularly in the field of communicable diseases,
environmental health, and epidemiological surveillance;
(c)   To support the development, application, and monitoring of sector policies that enable public
expenditure to focus on cost-effective interventions in favor of vulnerable groups;
(d)   To develop new ways of organizing, managing, financing, and delivering services in order to increase
the productivity and efficiency of health sector resources;
(e)   To enhance capabilities in the Ministry of Health, strengthening its ability to lead and govern the
sector; and
(f)    To contribute to a broadening of both the range and coverage of health insurance.
So far, the reform has made considerable headway with respect to public health, subsidized individual
health care, and social security.
In the field of public health, progress has been made in combating communicable, infectious diseases
and disorders caused by iodine deficiency as well as in environmental health, as a result of the decentralized,
multisectoral efforts of the health districts (DISAs) and various health programs that have employed social
marketing methods to achieve community and municipal participation in high risk areas. At the same time,



Peru: Health Reform Pro.aram (PARSALUD)                                               Page 74
there have been public awareness campaigns on subjects to do with healthy lifestyles, AIDS, smoking, and
alcoholism.
In the subsidized individual health group, the main developments included the introduction of school
health insurance program [Seguro Escolar Gratuito, SEG], now available nationwide; the pilot schemes of the
mother and child insurance in Tacna and Moyobamba; several hundred successful examples of participation
by the population through shared administration of public health facilities with communities (CLAS); the
introduction of a qualificationlcertification system for health establishments; and the setting up of modem
management and communications systems throughout Peru.
With respect to social security, significant progress has been made in the past two years since the
publication of the regulations of the Law 26790. By mid-1999, some 12,000 full-time workers had enrolled in
private health insurance-providers organizations (Entidades Prestadoras de Salud, EPS). With dependents
included, that means that over 25,000 persons are covered. ESSALUD, as Peru's social security institute is
now called, has issued approximately 20,000 optional insurance policies in the whole of Peru. Over 325,000
private sector employees have enrolled in the complementary occupational risk insurance scheme. Finally,
the State exercises its normative and supervisory functions in relation with these institutions through
specialized agencies.
We intend to pursue and consolidate these gains. Health reform is a long-term process, and one that
we hope will continue to be supported by the World Bank, the IDB, and other agencies. Given its duration
and complexity of the activities involved, multiple-phase types of loans will be needed. The first phase of the
reform focuses on the introduction of a maternal-child insurance program, known as SMI (Seguro Materno-
Infantil), aimed at reducing the economic barriers facing poor segments of the population. This phase also
seeks to generate proposals and to validate new institutional policies and changes. Subsequent phases of
health reform will concentrate on introducing and consolidating the new policies designed to set up an overall
health scheme with several types of providers (the State, social security, and private entities) and to
disseminate new ways of organizing, financing, managing, and delivering health services.
The strategy underlying the program consists of using improvements in maternal-child care as a
catalyst in the wider process of modernization of the health sector. Thus most of the program's resources will
be used to fund activities designed to increase the availability and quality of basic services, by financing SMI
and the expansion of related health care services. However, for improvements in basic health care to achieve
a lasting, effective impact, further progress has to be made in modernizing the sector by developing new
financing policies, as well as institutional and organizational changes.
Three components of the program underpin this strategy:
Strengthening the demand for health. This component aims to improve the health conditions of the
population. It will fund the maternal-child health insurance scheme (SMI), a health financing strategy that
seeks to eliminate the economic barriers preventing low-income mothers and their children from using
maternal-child care services, while at the same time enhancing the quality of those services.
Strengthening decentralization, policy development, and institutional reform. This component
aims to support the decentralization of health services by expanding the Local Health Administration
Committees (CLASs), with a view to empowering local communities and strengthening capabilities in the
Health Districts (DISAs) and Municipalities. It will also support exchanges of services among subsectors,
and especially between the Ministry of Health and ESSALUD. Funds will be made available for the design,
implementation, evaluation, and monitoring of new policy instruments to help improve the targeting of public
expenditure. This component will also finance the technical assistance needed to devise a proposed new set
of mechanisms for distributing and allocating funds in such a way as to guarantee the sustainability,
efficiency, and equity of public expenditure on top priority interventions directed to the poorest groups.



Peru: Health Reforrn Program (PARSALUD)                                                  Page 75
Improvement of health services. Health investment funding will be based on the priorities defined
by the regional, departmental, and local levels. Support will be provided for public health activities, such as
communicable disease control, promotion of environmental health, and investment in infrastructure,
equipment, and management systems in order to ensure that health establishments have the capacity to meet
demand.
The actions planned are consistent with the World Bank's strategic proposals for the social sectors,
which aim to back the government's efforts to increase health care coverage and to establish efficient systems
for delivering and financing services.
The program's main benefits will be:
Its health impact. The major benefits have to do with the reduction of maternal-child morbidity and
mortality. Once the SMI is fully implemented all over Peru (by the end of the fifth year), the increased health
care coverage for expectant mothers will be saving about 900 lives each year and maternal mortality will have
fallen from 265 to 128 per hundred thousand live births. At the same time, the increased health care coverage
for children under four years of age will save 23,400 lives per year and help to lower child mortality from 59
to 49 per thousand live births.
Its economic impact. The activities to be carried out under this program are highly cost-effective and
directing expenditure to interventions of this kind will help raise the level of efficiency in the utilization of
health sector resources. Apart from focusing on the financing of cost-effective services, the reforms will
enhance both the efficiency with which funds are allocated and the internal efficiency of the system itself.
Its social impact. In addition to preventing unnecessary deaths among expectant mothers, the
program will have further important social and economic effects. By lowering the economic, physical, social,
and cultural barriers impeding access to maternal-child health care services, the program will prevent loss of
lives, productivity, and capacity both among mothers and the next generation of children.
Through its economic and social repercussions and targeting strategies, the project will create the
conditions for greater social equity in terms of both progressive distribution of the State subsidy and the
health care strategies.
The Peruvian Government has singled out health as a key factor in its effort to achieve equity. We
have multisectoral vision which means that through alliances among the sectors we will succeed in lowering
maternal-child mortality rates.
Finally, after this brief description of our program, we should like to thank the World Bank for its
support and consideration, and reiterate our commitment to the goals and obligations set forth in this letter.
We will appreciate your consideration of this proposal.
Sincerely,
[signature]                                    [signature]                      [stamp]
Efrain Goldenberg Schreiber                   Alejandro Aguinaga Recuenco
Minister of Economy                           Minister of Health



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                            Paoe 76
Original Letter of Social Policy from the Government of Peru
MINISlURIo DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS                                 MINISTERIO DESALUD
Lima, Peru, 1 de noviembre de 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
F 1227
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Estimado sefior Wolfensohn:
Nos complace presentarle nuestra carta de politica del sector salud, conteniendo las estrategias
basicas que nuestro pafs busca implementar a trav6s de la primera fase del Programa de
"^    Apoyo a la Reforma del Sector Salud, que estd siendo actualmente negociado con el Banco
Mundial.
El gran reto que enfrcntamos como pais es la construcci6n de un nuevo sector salud, con
equidad, eficiencia y calidad, que lleve a superar los deficits de la actual situaci6n de salud.
Las caracteristicas centrales del sector salud al que aspiramos son:
Un sector salud con equidad.  Las diferencias de accesibilidad a los servicios
convierten enfermedades y dafios evitables en situaciones inevitables. El accionar
plural de los subsectores y sus unidades de servicios debe permitir ampliar la cobertura
y progresar hacia una cobertura universal, priorizando el cubrir las necesidades de los
/"   g      .      sectores pobres y vulnerables.
Un sector salud eficiente, que potencie el impacto de los recursos asignados, mejore los
procesos t6cnicos de producci6n de servicios y satisfaga al personal y a los usuarios,
permitiendo la resoluci6n de los problemas de salud. La eficiencia del sector busca
maximizar el rendimiento de los recursos, ganando en resultados y sustentabilidad. El
ambito de la seguridad social en salud constituye un campo privilegiado para la
articulaci6n de las capacidades puiblicas con las del sector privado.
Un sector salud con calidad, organizado en funci6n de la satisfacci6n del usuario,
elevando los niveles de calidez y eficacia t6cnico-administrativa; sustentado en una
cultura organizacional etica; y orientado al cumplimiento de la misi6n de brindar una
atenci6n de excelencia a todos los habitantes del pafs.
Paoina 1 de 5



Peru: Health Reform Proaram (PARSALUD)                                                                                    Paae 77
MINISlER1O DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS                                MINISTER]O DE SALUD
Los bbjetivos del Sector Salud a mediano plazo son:
1. Ampliar el acceso de la poblaci6n a mejores servicios de salud, con criterio de equidad,
asegurando la atenci6n integral a las poblaciones de escasos recursos; y regulando y
supervisando el funcionamiento adecuado de los subsectores que conforman el sector salud;
2. Continuar el desarrollo de los primeros niveles de atenci6n de la salud con infraestructura,
equipamiento y dotaci6n de recursos humanos;
3. Fortalecer el proceso de reforma estructural del Ministerio de Salud propiciando el cambio
en las modalidades de asignaci6n de recursos en funci6n a la producci6n de los servicios, y
perfeccionando las innovaciones en los modelos de gesti6n, prestaci6n y financiamiento que
se han venido aplicando en el sector;
4. Continuar el proceso de descentralizaci6n en salud, promoviendo la participaci6n social y
la corresponsabilidad entre el Estado y la sociedad, en el cuidado de la salud;
5. Continuar con el proceso de modernizaci6n de la seguridad social en salud, ampliando la
cobertura de la poblaci6n asegurada y mejorando la calidad de las prestaciones.
6. Promover la investigaci6n en salud orientada al desarrollo de los servicios.
Las acciones centrales del Programa de Apoyo a la Reforma estdn enmarcadas en la Politica
de Lucha contra la Pobreza que estd implementando el gobiemo peruano en beneficio de la
poblaci6n mas necesitada de nuestro pais.
El objetivo general del Programa es apoyar el proceso de modernizaci6n y  reforma del
sistema de salud en el Per6i para mejorar el estado de salud de la poblaci6n a traves de la
G5.oNoA4,~     expansi6n del acceso a servicios de salud efectivos, eficientes y de calidad. El programa esta
orientado hacia la soluci6n de los principales problemas de salud de la poblaci6n, en especial
 oS\1*/   la morbilidad y mortalidad materno-infantil.
gt- ;$ ~    Tiene como objetivos especificos:
a. Disminuir la morbi-mortalidad materno-infantil mediante la reducci6n de las barreras
econ6micas, fisicas y culturales a la utilizaci6n de los servicios materno-infantiles por las
poblaciones pobres y vulnerables.
b. Fortalecer las acciones de salud publica, principalmente en el campo de enfermedades
transmisibles y salud ambiental, y en el de vigilancia epidemiol6gica.
Pagina 2 de 5



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                         Paae 78
MINISTEM1O DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAP                               MINISN ERO DE SALUD
c. Apoyar el desarrollo, implantaci6n y seguimiento de politicas sectoriales que permitan
focalizar el gasto publico en intervenciones costo-efectivas dirigidas hacia grupos
vulnerables.
d. Desarrollar nuevos modelos de organizaci6n, gesti6n, financiamiento y prestaci6n de
servicios para incrementar la productividad y eficiencia de los recursos del sector.
e. Desarrollar nuevas capacidades del MINSA para fortalecer su liderazgo y rectoria
sectorial.
f. Contribuir a la ampliaci6n de la extensi6n del aseguramiento y de la cobertura del sistema
previsional en salud.
A la fecha la Reforma ha avanzado significativamente, tanto en el campo de la Salud Publica
de la Salud Individual Subsidiada como en el del Regimen Contributivo.
En el campo de la Salud Piiblica se han logrado avances en la lucha contra las enfermedades
infecciosas transmisibles, los des6rdenes por deficiencia de yodo y en salud ambiental,
mediante trabajo multisectorial descentralizado, en el ambito de las DISAs y de algunos
programas de salud que aplicando metodologias de mercadeo social, han captado la
,   <o o~,   participaci6n comunal y municipal en dreas de riesgo, a] mismo tiempo que se desarrollan
campanas masivas referidas a temas y contenidos sobre estilos de vida saludables, con
relaci6n a SIDA, tabaquismo y alcoholismo.
En el Regimen Subsidiado de Salud Individual destacan el Seguro Escolar Gratuito (SEG),
que se aplica a escala nacional: las experiencias piloto del Seguro Matemo Infantil en Tacna y
Moyobamnba; los cientos de experiencias exitosas de participaci6n de la poblaci6n en la
administraci6n de los Centros y Puestos de Salud a traves de CLAS; la implantaci6n de un
sistema de acreditaci6n de establecimientos de salud; el establecimiento en todo el ambito
nacional de modemos sistemas de gesti6n y comunicaciones; entre los principales.
Con relaci6n al Regimen Contributivo, a poco menos de dos anos de publicado el Reglamento
de la Ley 26790, se registran avances significativos. La afiliaci6n de trabajadores regulares en
-<TI>.    las EPS registra hasta mediados del afno unos 12 mil trabajadores que, sumados a sus derecho-
habientes, totalizan mas de 25 mil personas protegidas. ESSALUD ha colocado alrededor de
.  20 mil p6lizas de Seguros Potestativos en todo el territorio nacional. Los trabajadores del
sector privado enrolados en el Seguro Complementario de Trabajo de Riesgo superan las 325
\          mil personas. Finalmente, el Estado desarrolla sus capacidades de gobiemo y supervisi6n a
traves de 6rganos especializados.
Vamos a seguir desarrollando estos avances hasta su consolidaci6n. La reforma de salud es
un proceso de largo alcance, que esperamos siga siendo apoyado por el Banco Mundial, el
BID y otras agencias. Dada su duraci6n y la complejidad de las actividades requeridas, se
requerira modalidades de prestamo de fases multiples. La primera fase de la reforma esta
centrada en la implantaci6n de un programa de atenci6n matemo-infantil destinado a reducir
las barreras econ6micas que se presentan a las poblaciones pobres, denominado Seguro
Materno-Infantil (SMI) y el desarrollo de propuestas y validacion de nuevas politicas y
transformaciones institucionales. Las siguientes fases estarAn concentradas en la implantaci6n
y consolidaci6n de las nuevas politicas orientadas a la articulaci6n de un modelo global de
Pagina 3 de 5



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                                    Page 79
MINISTCRIO DE ECONOMIAY FINANZAS                                 MINISTERUO DE SAIUID
salud con varias clases de proveedores (Estado, seguridad social y privados), asf como a la
extensi6n de nuevas formas de organizaci6n, financiamiento, gesti6n y prestaci6n de
servicios.
La estrategia del programa estd basada en utilizar el mejoramiento de los servicios matemo-
infantiles como el elemento dinamizador del proceso de modemizacion del sector. En este
sentido, la mayor parte de los recursos del programa apoyardn actividades orientadas a
mejorar el acceso y calidad de servicios basicos, mediante el financiamiento del SMI y la
extensi6n de servicios de atenci6n relacionados. Sin embargo, para que los efectos de
mejoramiento de la atenci6n basica sean permanentes y efectivos, es necesario avanzar en el
proceso de modemizaci6n del sector, a traves del desarrollo de nuevas politicas de
financiamiento, asi como cambios institucionales y organizacionales.
De acuerdo con esta estrategia, el programa comprende tres componentes:
Fortalecimiento de la Demanda de Salud: Este componente tiene por objetivo mejorar las
condiciones de salud de la poblaci6n. Se financiara la implementaci6n del Seguro Matemo
Infantil (SMI), una estrategia de financiamiento de servicios de salud que busca eliminar las
4O O6 ,,    barreras econ6micas que impiden que las madres y nifios de menores recursos utilicen los
servicios de atenci6n materno-infantil, promoviendo al mismo tiempo el mejoramiento de la
calidad de los mismos.
Fortalecimiento de la Descentralizaci6n, Desarrollo de Politicas y Modernizacion
Institucional: Este componente tiene como objetivo apoyar la descentralizaci6n de los
servicios de salud a traves de la expansi6n de los Comites Locales de Administracion de
Salud (CLAS) para el empoderamiento de las comunidades y el fortalecimiento de las
capacidades de las DISAs y Municipalidades. Se apoyard el intercambio de servicios entre
sub sectores, especialmente entre el MINSA y ESSALUD. Se apoyard tambien el disefio,
implantaci6n, evaluaci6n y seguimiento de nuevos instrumentos de politicas que permitan
focalizar el gasto pdblico. Se financiara asistencia tecnica para el desarrollo de una propuesta
de nuevos mecanismos de distribuci6n y asignaci6n de recursos financieros que permitan
asegurar la sostenibilidad, eficiencia y equidad del gasto publico en intervenciones prioritarias
,,-oNOl,4>< focalizadas hacia los grupos mas pobres
En el carnpo del Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Salud: Se financiardn proyectos de
salud sobre la base de las prioridades regionales, departamentales y locales. Se apoyard el
%,;pde In'q ~fortalecimiento de acciones de salud puiblica, incluyendo el control de enfermedades
transmisibles y la promoci6n de la salud ambiental, e inversiones en infraestructura,
equipamiento y mejora de la gesti6n para asegurar la capacidad de respuesta de los
establecimientos,
Las acciones planteadas son consistentes con la estrategia propuesta por el Banco Mundial
para los sectores sociales del pals, que tiene como objetivos apoyar los esfuerzos del gobiemo
en incrementar la cobertura y establecer sistemas eficientes de prestaci6n y financiamiento de
los servicios.
Pdgina 4 de 5



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                                    Page 80
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIAY FINANZAS                                 MINISTERIO DE SALUD
El programa conseguirg los siguientes principales beneficios:
Impacto sanitario: Los principales beneficios del programa estan asociados a la reducci6n
de la morbilidad y la mortalidad materna e infantil. Una vez el SMI est6 plenamente
implementado en el ambito nacional (al final del quinto anto), el incremento en cobertura de
atenci6n a la gestante resultara en 900 muertes evitadas por ano y una reducci6n de la
mortalidad materna de 265 a 128 por cien mil nacidos vivos. A su vez, el aumento en la
cobertura de ninos menores de cuatro afios, resultara en 23.400 muertes evitadas al aflo,
contribuyendo a una reducci6n de la mortalidad en la nifiez de 59 a 49 por mil nacidos vivos.
Impacto econ6mico:   Este es un programa de acciones altamente costo-efectivas,
contribuyendo, de esta manera, a] aumento de la eficiencia en la utilizaci6n de los recursos del
sector, focalizando el gasto hacia este tipo de intervenciones. Ademas de dirigir el gasto hacia
el financiamiento de servicios costo-efectivos, el proceso de reforma mejorarA la eficiencia en
la asignaci6n de recursos y la eficiencia intema del sistema.
Impacto social: Ademgs'de prevenir la muerte de la mujer gestante, el programa tambien
generara otros impactos sociales y econ6micos importantes.  Al reducir las barreras
econ6micas, fisicas y socioculturales a servicios materno infantiles, prevendra perdidas de
vida, productividad y capacidad tanto en el actual grupo de madres como en la futura
generaci6n de nintos.
Por sus impactos econ6micos y sociales y las estrategias de focalizaci6n, el proyecto creara
las condiciones para una mayor equidad social tanto en la distribuci6n progresiva del subsidio
del Estado como en las estrategias de atenci6n de servicio.
El gobierno peruano ha priorizado la salud como elemento fundamental para conseguir la
equidad en nuestra poblaci6n. Tenemos una visi6n intersectorial que permitira mediante
alianzas entre los diferentes sectores conseguir la reducci6n de los indices de mortalidad
infantil y materna.
Despues de esta breve descripci6n, ratificamos nuestro reconocimiento al Banco Mundial, y el
compromiso de asumir los prop6sitos y obligaciones presentadas en nuestra carta.
(  {al,  V  Agradecemos a usted sus consideraciones a la presente.
Atentamente,    (
Efain  olderlerg    rilber                     Alejandro    inaga Recuenco
Minstrotdie Econoziia                              Ministro de Salud
Pagina 5 de 5



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                              Page 81
Annex 11
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                                      Planned                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    14                          14
First Bank mission (identification)           07/20/98                    07/20/98
Appraisal mission departure                   09/20/99                    09/20/99
Negotiations                                  10/28/99                    11/02/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 03/01/00                    03/01/00
Prepared by: Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        SPECIALITY
Project Team:
Evangeline Javier                      Task Manager
Daniel Cotlear                         Sr. Economist
Rafael Flores                         Implementation Specialist
Livia Benavides                        Environmental Health (Peru Country Office)
Elizabeth Dasso                        Social Assessment (Peru Country Office)
Tarsicio Castaneda                     Social Insurance and Targeting (Consultant)
Laura Altobelli                        Public Health Specialist (Consultant)
Marcos Miranda                         Engineer (Consultant)
Hugo Salinas                           Health Systems Specialist (Consultant)
Gina Tambini                           PAHO project officer
Aracelly Woodall                       Project Assistant
Patricia Bernedo                       Project Assistant
Review Functions:
David Varela/Mariana Montiel           Lawyer
Efrain Jimenez/Patricia Macgowan       Procurement Review
Luis Chang                             Procurement Assessment
Livio Pino/Luis Carlos Guerrero        Project Financial Management
Issam Abousleiman                      Disbursements
David Gwatkin                          Peer Reviewer
Patricio Marquez                       Peer Reviewer
Marge Koblinsky                        Extemal Peer Reviewer



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                            Page 82
Annex 12
Documents in the Project File
Preparation:
1. Avances y Logros del Programa de Fortalecimiento de los Servicios de Salud, 1994-1998
(versi6n preliminar), IDB. Junio de 1998.
2. El Seguron Materno Infantil; Avances y Asuntos para el Futuro
InterAmerican Development Bank: Anexo tecnico sobre el calculo de muertes evitadas por el
SMI, Julio de 1999
3. InterAmerican Development Bank: Comparative Analysis of Primary Health Care
Facilities with participation of Civil Society in Veneuela and Peru. Laura C. Altobelli.
Siminar: "Social Programs, Poverty and Citizen Participation" Co-sponsored by Denmark,
Finland, Norway and Sweden. Cartagena, Colombia, March 12-13, 1998. State and Civil
Society Division.
4. InterAmerican Development Bank: Informe de consultoria (trip report) para informar al
equipo t6cnico nacional del SMI sobre una iniciativa similar en Bolivia. Guillermo Seoane.
Abril de 1999.
5. InterAmerican Development Bank: Plan de Acci6n Tipo. Junio de 1999.
6. Lineamientos de la Propuesta Financiera para el Seguro Materno Infantil. Preparado por
Fernando Llanos y Eduardo Padilla. Revisado por el doctor Eduardo Salazar Lindo. Mayo de
1999.
7. Manual de Operaciones del PARSALUD. Programa de Apoyo a la Reforma de Salud.
Mayo de 1999.
8. Ministerio de Salud del Peru, Seguro Materno Infantil: Implicancias que el SMI tiene
sobre las DISA y Establecimientos de Salud en Cuanto al Manejo de Medicamentos e Insumos.
Preparado por los doctores Walter Vigo y Eliana Nufiez. Revisado por el doctor Eduardo
Salazar Lindo. Mayo de 1999.
9. Ministerio de Salud del Peru, Seguro Matemo Infantil: Inventario de Comunicaci6n.
Preparado por los Lic. Carlos Gutierrez y Juan Pablo Murillo. Revisado por el doctor Eduardo
Salazar Lindo. Mayo de 1999.
10. Ministerio de Salud del Per&i, Seguro Materno Infantil: Modificaci6n del Monto Per
Capita. Preparado Fernando Llanos, Juan Pichihua y Eduardo Padilla. Junio de 1999.
11. Ministerio de Salud del Peru, Seguro Materno Infantil: Documento Base del Seguro
Materno Infantil y sus Acciones Complementarias. Preparado por Eduardo Salazar Lindo.
Mayo de 1999.
12. Ministerio de Salud del Peru, Seguro Materno Infantil: Plan de Beneficios del Seguro
Materno Infantil. Preparado por los doctores Jose Calder6n, Rosario Kiyohara y Walter Vigo.
Revisado por el doctor Presupuesto del Plan de Expansi6n del Seguro Materno Infantil en



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                            Paae 83
Varios Escenarios
13. Ministerio de Salud: Boletin SMI 01-99. Presentaci6n del SMI. Direcci6n General de
Salud de las Personas.
14. Ministerio de Salud: Caracteristicas de Infraestructura, Equipamiento, Suministros y
Recursos Humanos de los Servicios de Salud para Acreditarse Aptos para el Seguro Materno
Infantil. Seguro Materno Infantil. Preparado por los doctores Carlos Gutierrez, Daniel Davila
y Rigoberto Garcia. Revisado por el doctor Eduardo Salazar Lindo. Mayo de 1999.
15. Ministerio de Salud: Dimensionamiento de las Inversiones. Programa de Apoyo a la
Reforma del Sector Salud - PARSALUD, Julio de 1999.
16. Ministerio de Salud: Estudio de Sustentacion del Program. Programa de Apoyo a la
Reforma del Sector Salud. PARSALUD (Primera Fase).
17. Ministerio de Salud: Plan Operativo Anual Preliminar para el Afio 2000.. Junio de 1999.
18. Ministerio de Salud: Plan para la Formaci6n de un Sistema de Supervisi6n de las
Prestaciones y las Actividades Complementarias del SMI y Verificaci6n de la Calidad de Estas.
Seguro Materno Infantil. Preparado por los doctores Walter Vigo y Percy Diaz. Revisado por
el doctor Eduardo Salazar Lindo. Mayo de 1999.
19 .Ministerio de Salud: Plan Piloto del Seguro Matemo Infantil. Diciembre de 1998
Ministerio de Salud: Programa de Apoyo a la Reforma del Sector Salud: FONDO DE
INVESIONES PARSALUD. Metodo de distribucion de los recursos de inversion.
20. Ministerio de Salud: Petitorio de Medicamentos e Insumos del Seguro Materno Infantil.,
Seguro Materno Infantil. Preparado por los doctores Jose Calder6n, Rosario Kiyohara y
Walter Vigo. Revisado por el doctor Eduardo Salazar Lindo. Mayo de 1999.
21. Ministerio de Salud-PARSALUD: Subcomponente de Saneamiento Ambiental en
Establecimientos de Salud (SAES. Noviembre de 1998).
22. Ministerio de Salud-PARSALUD: Subcomponente de Aseguramiento de la Calidad del
Agua a Nivel Domiciliario en Comunidades de Extrema Pobreza (ASCA).. Noviembre de
1998.
23. Ministerio de Salud-PARSALUD: Subcomponente de Fortalecimiento de la Gestion en
Salud Ambiental (GESA. Noviembre de 1998).
24. Ministerio de Salud-PARSALUD: Componente de Salud Ambiental en la Reforma de
Salud.. Septiembre de 1998.
25. Ministero de Salud: Evaluaci6n de Acuerdos de Gesti6n Con Hospitales - 1998
Plan de Acci6n Preliminar para la Implantaci6n del SMI de la Direcci6n de Salud de Ayacucho.
Ministerio de Salud. Junio de 1999.
26. Plan Preliminar para la Atenci6n de Salud a Poblaciones Dispersas (experiencia inicial en
cuatro departamentos).. Octubre de 1998.
27. Reforma de la Direccion General de Salud de las Personal: Nuevo Disenio Organizacional.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                            Paae 84
Nuevas Funciones. Lima, Abril de 1999. (documento de trabajo, de circulacion restringida),
(no apto para citas).
28. Reglamento de Operaciones del Fondo de Inversi6n el Sector Salud, Aspectos
Metodol6gicos. Segundo Informe (documento borrador). Asunci6n Vargas Pefia. Junio de
1999.
29. Reglamento de Operaciones. Mecanismo de Asignaci6n de Recursos para la Inversi6n a
Financiar por el PARSALUD, Jose Rospigliosi Ferro. Julio de 1998.
30. World Bank, 1999. Peru: Improving Health Care for the Poor.
Implementation
31. InterAmerican Development Bank: Plan de Acci6n Tipo. Junio de 1999.
32. Ministerio de Salud Manual de Operaciones del PARSALUD. Programa de Apoyo a la
Reforma de Salud. Mayo de 1999.
33. Ministerio de Salud del Peru: Plan de Acci6n Preliminar para la Implantaci6n del SMI de
la Direcci6n de Salud de Ayacucho.. Junio de 1999.
34. Ministerio de Salud del Peri: Plan Operativo Anual Preliminar para el Afno 2000.
Noviembre de 1999.



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                                                                                                    Page 85
Annex 12:
Statement of Loans and Credits
PERU: Health Reform Program
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions       and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID        FY    Borrower                   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig         Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 71
PE-PE-39086       1999  GOP                        URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                          38.00       0.00       0.00      35.03      9.16         0.00
PE-PE-65596       1999  MINISTRY OF FINANCE   FIN SECTR.ADJ.LN 11                               300.00       0.00       0.00     122.00   -178.00         0.00
PE-PE-54667       1998  GOVERNMENT OF PERU   ELNINOEMERGENCYLN                                  150.00       0.00       0.00      118.23    58.23         2.00
PE-PE-40125       1997  GOVERNMENT OF PERU  FONCODES II                                         150.00       0.00       0.00      65.80     60.80         0.00
PE-PE-42442       1997  GOVERNMENT OF PERU   SIERRA NATURAL RES.                                 51.00       0.00       0.00      27.62      -1.36        0.00
PE-PE-8037        1997  GOVERNMENT OF PERU   IRRIG. REHAB                                        85.00       0.00       0.00      62.67     24.48         -2.82
PE-PE-37047       1996  REPUBLIC OF PERtJ          RURAL RDS. REHAB & M                          90.00       0.00       0.00       17.62    15.52         0.00
PE-PE-8051        1995  SEDAPAL                    LIMAWAT.PRIV7N                               150.00       0.00        0.00     64.21     55.61         0.00
PE-PE-8055        1995  GOVERNMENT                 PRIM.EDUC                                    146.40       0.00       0.00      76.89     76.89         -2.26
PE-PE-8045        1994  GOVERNMENT                 TRANSP.RHB                                   150.00       0.00       0.00       13.75    12.72         0.00
Total:  1,310.40      0.00       0.00    603.82   134.05         -3.08
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):     730.11       2,975.35       3,705.46
of which has been repaid:      0.00       1,240.64      1,240.64
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,344.40       1,734.70      3,079.10
Amount sold:        0.00          18.31          18.31
of which repaid-       0.00         18.31          18.31
Total Undisbursed:     603.82           0 00        603.82
a Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Peru: Health Reform Prooram (PARSALUD)                                                                        Pace 86
PERU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                          IFC
FY Approval               Company                    Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic      Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic
1979183190193             Buenaventura                0.00     0.00    1.69    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.69   0.00
1982/92195                Wiese Leasing               7.27     0.00    1.43    5.71     7.27     0.00    1.43   5.71
1984                      MineraRegina                1.71     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.71     0.00    0.00   0.00
1993/94                   Yanacocha                   2.40     0.00    0.33    0.00     2.40     0.00    0.33   0.00
1993/96                   Quellaveco                  0.00    11.52    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.30    0.00   0.00
1994                      Banco Credito               3.64     0.00    0.00    0.00     3.64     0.00    0.00   0.00
1994                      Peru Prvtzn Fund            0.00     0.00   20.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   13.89   0.00
1994                      PPF Cayman                  0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00
1994/96                   AFP Horizonte               0.00     0.00    023    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.23   0.00
1997                     Interbank-Peru              20.00     0.00    0.00  100.00    20.00     0.00    0.00  97.98
1998                      agroguayabito               7.00     0.00    1.00    0.00     5.50     0.00    1.00   0.00
1998                      Latino Leasing             10.00     0.00    2.50    0.00    10.00     0.00    2.50   0.00
1998                      Paramonga                  22.00     0.00    0.00   23.00    14.18     0.00    0.00  14.82
Total Portfolio:     74.02    11.52   27.18   128.71    64.70    10.30    21.07  118.5
I
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval               Company                            Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commnitment:         0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00



Peru: Health Reform Program (PARSALUD)                                                                                         Page 87
Annex 13: Country at a. Glance
PERU: Agricultural Research and Extension
Latin   Lower-                                         9/8199
POVERTY nrJt SOCIAL                                          America   middle-                           -   ' ''         _
Peru   & Carib.  Income       Development diamond'
1993
PoDulation. mid-vear (millions)                        24.8       502       Su                   Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita (Atlas method. US$1                    2,460     3.940      1,710
GNP lAtlas mathod. USS billions)                       61.1     1,978      1.557                       T
Averace annual orowth. 1992-98
Poculation t%)                                          1.7       1,6        1.1
Laborforoe (%li                                         27        2.3        15      GNP        ,,/7                  pGross
Most recent 6atrnate (latest vear available. 19928)                                  capita                        en rolIment
Povertv (56 of oaoulation below national oovedfv /ine)  49
Urban oooulation (56 of totasooDulation)                72         75        58
Life exDectancv at birth (vrers)                        69         70        68
infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                40         32        38
Child malnutnition 1% of children under 5)                8         a                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of oooulation)                  66         75        75
illiteracv (% of oooulation aae 15+1                     11        13        14
Gross odrimarv enrollment 1% of schoot-aoeDoouletion)   123       113       103     1       Peru
Male                                                 125          .       105     L        Lower-middle-income group
Femate                                               121          .       100
KEY ECONOMiC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997       1998
Economic ratios*
GDP IUSS billions)                            14.2     23.9      63.8       62.9
Gross domestic investmentVGOP                 19 2     21,5      24.6       24,6                     Trade
Exoortscfooodsandservices/GDP                 15.9     11.0      12.8       12.0
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    12.4     19.7      20.6       19.8
Gross national saevnos/GDP                           . .          19.4      18 6                       T
Current account balanoe/GDP                   -6.5     -8.3       -5.3      -6.0     o   etic
Interest cavmentslGDP                          2.9      0.6       1.6        1 8     Domestc                      Investment
Total debtGDP                                 64.4     73.1      47.8       51S     Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                    53.0     13.3      31.1       27.3
Present value of debUGDP                        .         ..     43.6
Present value of debt/exoorts                                   294.9
Indebtedness
197747  1988-98      1997      1998   1999-03
(averare annual orowth)
GOP                                   17       3>9      72        0.7        5,7
GNP Dercaoita                       -0.8       2.6      5.4      -3,0        3.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services        0.5       7,0     13.0        2.4       7.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997       1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(Y. of GOP)                                                                          40
Aariculture                                   15.7     10.3        6.9       7.1     30
Industrv                                     34.6      33.4      36.4       36.7     20
Manufactunna                                20.8     23.4       22.9      22.0
Services                                     49.7      56.3      56.7       56.3     o_
Private consumotion                          73.5      70.3      67.5       66.1    -10      93   94   95   96   97   98
General oovernmentconsumotion                 14.1     10.0       11.7      12.1                 -'GDI    - -GDP
ImDorts of aoods and services                 22.7     12.7      16.6       16.7
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (O/o)
(averaoe annual aomwth)
Aariculture                                    1.9      3.5        3.7       3.6    30 
Industrv                                       1.9      4.4        9.0       1.5    20 -
Manufacturina                                1.2      3.1        6.0      -3.0        J
Services                                       1.4      3.5       6.6       -0.9    10 '                      ' <"
Pnvate consumotion                             1.7      2.6       4.1       -0.2     o
General oavernment consumDtion                 1.6      2.6       4.6        2.4            93   94   95   96   97   99
Gross domestic investment                      0.8      8.3      12.7       -0.1   -10
Imoorts of soods and services                 -0.7     10.0      11.3       -0. 1             Exports    -    Imports
Gross national oroduct                         1.6      4.4        7.3      -1.2
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) comDared with its income-arouD averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.



