Report No. PID7393
Project Name                      Peru-Health Reform Project
Region                            Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                            Health
Project ID                        PEPE62932
Borrower                          Government of Peru
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health (MINSA)
Av. Salaverry Cdra. 8 s/n
Jesus Maria
Lima
Tel: 431-1247, 424-8425
Fax: 432-6177
Date PID Prepared                 December 15, 1998
Expected Appraisal Date           July, 1999
Expected Board Date               January 15, 2000
Country and sector background.    Peru is a country of 23.7 million people, half
of whom are poor, with a growth rate of 1.9 percent and strong rural to urban
migration. In 1993, the country was 70 percent urban. However, of the 11
million estimated poor in Peru, 60 percent reside in the primarily rural
sierra and jungle regions. Peru's infant and child mortality indicators
showed notable progress since 1990 due to sustained increase in immunization
and effective control of diarrheal infections following strong educational
campaigns launched by special health programs. However, Peru's infant
mortality rate in 1996 (43 per 1,000 live births) still places it among the
worst in the LAC Region.   Progress was mainly in post-neonatal mortality (35w
drop from 1990-1996); much less was achieved in neo-natal (17w drop) or in
maternal mortality (11w drop). The chief causes of infant mortality are:
perinatal illnesses (31.8 percent) and infectious diseases (including ARIs,
EDAs, and other bacterial illnesses), which together account for one-third of
the deaths of children under one year of age. The maternal mortality rate for
1990-1995 of 265 deaths for 100,000 live births is almost one and a half times
higher than the LAC average, and is 15 times the average for developed
countries. The chief causes of maternal mortality?hemorrhage (23%),
mishandled abortions (22%), infections (18%), and hypertension (17%)?are a
reflection of the low 18 percent rate of professionally-attended births,
especially in rural areas. There is low priority for the development of
obstetric services and high economic barriers for birth delivery and obstetric
complications. In addition, the cultural barrier is heavily reinforced by
services that remain unprepared to deal with poor indigenous women.
The greater problems of mortality are concentrated among the poorer 40
percent of the population where almost 60 percent of child deaths occur. The
main cause of death continues to be infectious diseases (including ARI,
diarrhea, tuberculosis). Despite some progress in expanding rural water and
sanitation, only 22 percent of the rural population has access to safe water.
Inadequate food and waste disposal, together with a higher exposure to illness
transmitted by vectors account for the greater health risk in the rural areas.
In addition, epidemiological surveillance is weak, information systems are



insufficiently coordinated, and regional laboratories are poorly equipped and
staffed. Emerging and reemerging diseases such as malaria of the falciparum
variety, yellow fever, dengue, cholera, and rabies are believed to be either
increasing or to have established themselves as chronic problems.
Other main sectoral issues include:    (i) inequitable access?between 1994
and 1997 the largest expansion in use of medical services occurred among the
richest 40 percent; (ii) sector fragmentation?uncoordinated objectives and
programs involving different public and semi-public agencies; (iii) financing
and insurance issues? sector financing has been done on a historical basis
without relation to sector outputs, and insurance provision has lacked
competition, a situation which has led to inefficiencies; (iv)
underutilization of public hospitals?there is a misalignment between the
capital structure (physical plant and technology) and the actual services
provided; and (v) human resources for health care?the location and quality of
technical preparation of medical personnel, as well as the skills mismatch
with national needs, are challenges to be addressed.
Project objectives. The medium-term goal of the 7-10 year health sector
reform program is to reduce infant and maternal mortality, and deaths of the
poor from communicable diseases and inadequate environmental conditions. This
program is proposed to be supported by an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) in
conjunction with a flexible loan from the IDB. The first phase of the APL
(FY2000-2003) aims to contribute to the above-mentioned medium-term health
goal focusing on the poor households in 14 health departments in Peru. It
will finance the design, pilot-testing, and, as appropriate, launching of
policy and institutional reforms, as well as corollary investments necessary
to pursue the following strategies: (i) guarantee the universal access of the
poorest population groups to a program of essential health services which
would include women's reproductive, child health and other health
promotion/disease prevention interventions; (ii) reduce economic and cultural
barriers to utilization of, and participation in, the health system; (iii)
improve the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of health care services and
specific public health programs by developing integrated health care networks,
financing and managerial models in selected regional health departments; and
(iv) strengthen the role of the Ministry of Health to provide norms, assure
adequate health financing for the poor, and supervise the delivery of services
by health providers. The proposed APL would complement a poverty-focused
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) that is currently under discussion between
the Peruvian Government and the Bank. The social agenda component of this
possible SAL would include health conditionalities that would front load
critical reform decisions. The implementation of these reforms would be
financed under the APL.
Project description. The first phase of the APL has four main components with
subcomponents: I. Reorientation of Health Care Delivery System and
Strengthening of Public Health Programs?(a) Technical assistance to establish
integrated health care networks (redes) geared to delivery of a program of
essential health services to address mother and child health problems,
communicable diseases, and improvement of public health policies and
interventions; and (b) Investment financing for Health Subprojects: (i) to
establish/strengthen redes for the delivery of essential health services; (ii)
to support innovative community-based, integrated projects promoting the
health and well-being of the local population; and (iii) to carry out
modernization of selected hospitals in the project areas. II. Pilot Reform
-2 -



of the Health Financing Mechanisms?Technical assistance to (a) implement the
pilot and geographic extension of the mother and child reimbursement scheme
(Seguro Materno Infantil-SMI); (b) increase the coverage and efficiency of
social security administration (IPSS), private insurers and autonomous
hospitals; and (c) develop pricing and payment mechanisms to purchase health
services. III. Reorientation of the Roles of MINSA and Public/Private Health
Providers: Technical assistance to (a) improve MINSA's role in supervising
mother and child health, epidemiological surveillance, and public health
conditions; (b) pilot test of management service contracts (acuerdos de
gestion) between MINSA and the public/autonomous health entities; (c)
strengthening of regional health departments; and (d) hold consensus workshops
on health care reforms. IV. Project Coordination. Management of project
implementation.
Project financing. The total cost of the ten year health reform program is
estimated to be US$300 million. The cost of the first phase (the current APL)
is about US$150 million, of which the Bank would contribute US$50 million, the
IDB another US$50 million, and the rest would be covered by Government
financing. Trigger indicators to enter the subsequent phases of the APL will
be specified.
Project implementation. The Ministry of Health will coordinate project
implementation. Investments related to Component I (b) would be implemented
through a (managed) demand-driven, subproject mechanism. Subprojects can be
proposed by individual or group of health departments, autonomous hospitals,
or communities. The subproject eligibility criteria would include the need for
"planes locales de salud" a practice already existing in the CLAS.
Subprojects which form part of an integrated set of health activities in the
local area will be given priority. Technical assistance and investments
related to Components II and III would be implemented through a subcontracting
mechanism between the MINSA and eligible entities. The eligibility and
appraisal criteria, as well as arrangements for contracting, supervision and
disbursements, would be specified in a Procedures Manual.
Project sustainability. Implementing the lessons learned from the pilot
financing and service delivery reforms would increase the chances of
sustainability. Also, the requirements to have the investment subprojects as
part of an integral part of the local health plans would ensure a well-
thought-out set of health services and activities with appropriate personnel
and maintenance support.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector. The project
design builds upon the experience of relevant operations financed by the World
Bank Group over the past decade, including the ongoing Basic Health and
Nutrition project in Peru, as well as other international experiences. Key
lessons incorporated into the project design are: (i) project objective and
scope should be linked to a clear policy framework; (ii) strong government and
stakeholder commitment should be obtained, particularly from regional,
municipal, and community organizations; (iii) the implementation of a flexible
preparatory project is prudent before launching a sector-wide reform program,
as it enables the public and interest groups to debate specific issues prior
to large-scale implementation; (iv) subproject design should be simple,
focused, with modest objectives; (v) financing of critical investments should
be linked to the implementation of policy and/or institutional reform; (vi)
provision of support systems and human resources development is important to
-3 -



increase decision making and management capacity of the MINSA; (vii) an
adequate monitoring and impact evaluation system should be developed to allow
adjustments to be made in project design and implementation arrangements
during the life of the project; and (viii) decentralization should be
accompanied by measures to ensure accountability and equity among
decentralized entities, particularly when activities are financed within a
competitive framework.
Poverty category. The proposed project addresses poverty reduction by
explicitly focusing project activities on improving the access to, and the
quality of, health and related services (e.g. water and sanitation) in 14
health departments in Peru. Special focus on indigenous women and children
will be a feature of the project.
Environmental aspects. The proposed project would not have environmental
risks. No resettlement would be called for. A study of how best to serve the
needs of the indigenous population is planned.
Program Objective category.     The category for this project is Poverty
Reduction and Human Resources.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 5, 1999.
- 4-



