                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR000073



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-45270)

                                       ON A

                           LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                US$ 27.00 MILLION


                                        TO

                             THE REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                      FOR A

                           HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM
(FIRST PHASE: MOTHER AND CHILD INSURANCE AND DECENTRALIZATION
                             OF HEALTH SERVICES)


                                   March 6, 2007




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective March 6, 2007)

      Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol (PEN)
               PEN 1.00 = US$ 0.313
               US$ 1.00 = PEN 3.19

                  FISCAL YEAR
             [January 1 ­ December 31]

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA         Analytical and Advisory Activities
APL         Adaptable Program Loan
BONF        Basic Obstetric and Neonatal Functions
CLAS        Local Health Administration Comitees (Comités Locales
            de Administración de Salud)
DFID        Great Britain's Department for International Development
DISA        Health Directorate (Dirección de Salud)
DIRESA      Regional Health Directorate (Dirección Regional Salud)
DPL         Development Policy Loan
EDA         Acute Diarrhea Diseases (Enfermedades Diarréicas
            Agudas)
ENAHO       National Home Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares)
EONF        Essential Obstetric and Neonatal Functions
ESSALUD     Peruvian Social Security Institute (Seguro Social de Salud)
GP          Government of Peru
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMR         Infant Mortality Rate
INEI        National Statistics Institute (Instituto Nacional de
            Estadística e Informática)
IRA         Acute Respiratory Infections (Infecciones Respiratorias
            Agudas)
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de
            Economía y Finanzas)
MINSA       Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAHO        Pan American Health Office
PARSALUD    Health Reform Program (Programa de Apoyo a la
            Reforma del Sector Salud)
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PSRL        Programmatic Social Reform Loans
SEG         School Health Insurance (Seguro Escolar Gratuito)

SIS     Integrated Health Insurance(Seguro Integral de Salud)
SMI     Maternal and Child Insurance (Seguro Materno Infantil)
SNIP    National Public Investment System (Sistema Nacional de
        Inversión Pública)
WHO     World Health Organization


           Vice President:      Pamela Cox
         Country Director:      Marcelo M. Giugale
          Sector Manager:       Keith E. Hansen
        Task Team Leader:       Livia M. Benavides

                                                 PERU
   HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM (First Phase: Mother and Child
              Insurance and Decentralization of Health Service


                                           CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 2
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 9
   3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 14
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome....................................................... 21
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 21
   6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 28
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 29
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................ 31
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis) 37
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........... 46
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results......................................................................... 48
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 49
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 50
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 62
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 64
   MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    HEALTH REFORM
                                                                    PROGRAM (First
                                                                    Phase: Mother and
Country:                Peru                  Project Name:
                                                                    Child Insuranceand
                                                                    Decentralization of
                                                                    Health Servic
Project ID:             P062932               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45270
ICR Date:               03/29/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:
                                                                    PERU
Original Total
                        USD 27.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 27.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministerio de Salud
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/30/1998    Effectiveness:       07/02/2001         07/02/2001
Appraisal:             09/19/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/16/1999    Mid-term Review:                        09/25/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2003         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory



                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               3                 3
Health                                                         97                97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                  Primary         Primary
Decentralization                                             Secondary       Secondary
Other communicable diseases                                   Primary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary         Primary
Population and reproductive health                           Secondary        Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Marcelo Giugale                  Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Keith E. Hansen                  Xavier E. Coll
Project Team Leader:      Livia M. Benavides               Evangeline Javier
ICR Team Leader:          Livia M. Benavides
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Prawda



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project is the first phase of a three-phase adjustable program loan. The goals of the
overall program are to: (a) improve maternal and child health; and (b) help reduce
morbidity and deaths of the poor from communicable diseases and inadequate
environmental conditions.


                                             ii

  The project development objective for phase 1 of the APL was to increase access of the
poor to better quality health programs and services. This access would be improved by
strengthening the demand for services and the quality of the supply. The demand would
be strengthened through the implementation of a Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI, this was
later renamed as Seguro Integral de Salud or SIS). The quality of supply would be
enhanced by increased community participation (mainly through the CLAS system), by
reducing fragmentation in the delivery of maternal and child and environmental health
services and by adapting investments to local needs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original PDOs and Key Indicators remained unchanged.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Infant mortality rate
Value
quantitative or 43 (nation wide)           29.2 (nation wide)                22.3 (nation wide)

Qualitative)    48 (project area)          34.4 (project area)               28.3 (project area)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   06/30/2006                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Both nationwide and project area targets were surpassed.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Number of pregnant women with 4 or more prenatal care visits.
Value
quantitative or 59.9 (nation wide)         95.8 (nation wide)                75.6 (nationwide)

Qualitative)    32.1 (project area)        51.4 (project area)               57.2 (project area)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   06/30/2006                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The nationwide indicator increased 26.2 percent while the one in the project area

achievement)    increased by 78.2 percent.

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of deliveries attended by skilled health personnel
Value
quantitative or 54.8 (nation wide)         72.8 (nation wide)                71.1 (nationwide)

Qualitative)    27.6 (project area)        36.7 (project area)               50.9 (project area)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   06/30/2006                        12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        The nationwide indicator increased by 29.7 percent while the one in the project

achievement)    areas increased by 84.4 percent.

Indicator 4 :   Number of children under age 5 with ARI attended in a health facility
Value
quantitative or 8,747,589                  3,700,000                         7,742,457
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   06/30/2006                        06/30/2006


                                               iii

Comments        ARI targets were established originally as absolute numbers due to lack of
(incl. %        baseline numbers during Project preparation. Absolute numbers are difficult to
achievement)    interpret.
Indicator 5 :   Number of children under age 5 with accute diarrhea treated in a health facility
Value
quantitative or 4,535,892                   780,000                            4,531,800
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments        Acute diarrhea targets were established originally as absolute numbers due to
(incl. %        lack of baseline numbers during Project preparation. Absolute numbers are
achievement)    difficult to interpret.
Indicator 6 :   Percentage of children between 18 and 29 months vaccinated with DPT3.
Value
quantitative or 78.30%                     95%                                 87.41%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005                          12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        DPT3 was replaced by a more complex vaccine, so that its coverage at the

achievement)    regional level has been reduced during the last few years.

Indicator 7 :   Percentage of yellow fever cases attended
Value
quantitative or                             80%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Yellow fever is a disease under weekly national surveillance. By law, the

achievement)    reported cases have to be attended.

Indicator 8 :   At least 17 million beneficiaries receive care in the primary facilities of MINSA
                annually
Value
quantitative or                             17,000,000                         28,130,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target was significantly surpassed.
achievement)
                Number of health departments (DISAs) implementing regional and local health
Indicator 9 :   plans that respond to communicable diseases and environmental health problems
                prevalent in their respective localities
Value
quantitative or                             80%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments        All DISAs, regularly sign annual Management Agreements with the Ministry of
(incl. %        Health, reflecting commitments with respect to regional health priorities and
achievement)    indicators with quantitative goals for the period




                                                 iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Percentage of attended deliveries which received oxitocin in the Project area.
Value
(quantitative  49.4                       90                                 90.4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  06/30/2006                         07/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator increased by 90 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Percentage of deliveries attended institutionally by SIS.
Value
(quantitative  37.6 (nation wide)         66.3 (nation wide)                 65.1 (nationwide)

or Qualitative)18.5 (project area)        42.4 (project area)                59.9 (project area)

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2006                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The nationwide indicator increased 73.1 percent while the one in the project

achievement)   areas increased by 223.8 percent (3.1 time more)

Indicator 3 :  Percentage of deliveries financed by SIS in the first two quintiles of population
               in the Project area.
Value
(quantitative  44.4                       50.0                               56.4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2006                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator increased by 27%
achievement)
               Number of health facilities refurbished to comply with Essential Obstetric
Indicator 4 :  Function (EOF), Basic Obstetric Function (BOF) and Basic Maternal and Child
               services capacity
Value
(quantitative  0                          20 (EOF) 59 (B0F)                  20(EOF) 54(BOF)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2006                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Target was met for EOF. 91 percent of BOF were refurbished. The lower target

achievement)   was due to additional cost from basic utilities needed for health facilities.

Indicator 5 :  Percentage of references with respect to the number of attentions.
Value
(quantitative  5                          11.0                               5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2006                         06/30/2006
Comments       The indicator increased in 2004 (6%) and 2005 (7%) but fell again to 5% in
(incl. %       2006. The main obstacle has been the allocation of budget for fuel for



                                               v

achievement)   ambulances, which is not financed by SIS.

Indicator 6 :  Percentage of newborn children covered by the SIS weighted within the first 24
               hours of birth
Value
(quantitative  73 (nationwide)            95 (nationwide                   83 (nationwide)

or Qualitative)64 (project area)         and project area)                 74 (project area)

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The nationwide indicator increased 13.7 percent while the one in the project

achievement)   areas increased by 15.6 percent (1.1 times more).


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/30/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     05/19/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     06/28/2001           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     0.00
  5     12/19/2001           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     0.27
  6     06/03/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.53
  7     12/10/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      3.30
  8     12/11/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      3.30
  9     06/10/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      5.29
  10    06/11/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      5.29
  11    12/05/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      7.32
  12    06/14/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    10.02
  13    11/29/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    12.12
  14    04/26/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    18.10
  15    07/01/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    21.38
  16    03/28/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    27.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

The Peru Health Reform Project (First Phase: Mother and Child Insurance and
Decentralization of Health Services (labeled as PARSALUD I), was one of a cluster of
Bank-supported activities designed to improve basic health indicators in Peru. This
cluster included an influential AAA which made recommendations for health policy
reforms needed to obtain better results in health.         These recommendations were
implemented through a series of four policy based loans (Programmatic Social Reform
Loans or PSRLs) and an investment loan (PARSALUD I). While this ICR will discuss
exclusively the implementation of PARSALUD I, the implementation of this loan needs
to be understood in the broader context of the implementation of the cluster.

At the time of appraisal, the following major sector issues were facing the Peruvian
health sector.

(a) Low health status of the poor population. Peru's very high infant mortality of 43
per 1,000 life births in 1996 was among the worst in Latin America and the Caribbean
region (LAC). The maternal mortality rate of 265 for 100,000 births observed in the
period 1990-1995 was almost one and half times higher than the LAC average and 15
times the average for developed countries.

(b) Inequitable access to health. A large gap between the health status of the poor and
that of the non-poor continued to exist in Peru at the end of the nineties. At the time of
project appraisal, the highest mortality rates were concentrated among the poorer 40
percent of the population, where almost 60 percent of child deaths occurred. Poor
households were handicapped by a combination of low education and worse
environmental conditions. They also had less access to some key and basic health
services.

(c) Limited financing and weak targeting of health expenditures. At the end of the
last decade, Peru allocated fewer resources to health than most of its neighbors. The
proportion of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) assigned to health in 1997 (4.1 percent)
was about two thirds of the LAC average. Per capita expenditure in health at US$90 in
1997, was about half of the LAC average. The ratio of physicians to the population of
about 10 per 10,000 in 1997 was 70 percent of the LAC average. There was also great
inequality in the consumption of health goods and services resulting in approximately 4.5
times higher among the richest 20 percent of the population than among the poorest 20
percent.

(d) Sector fragmentation. Peru's health system was, at the time of project appraisal, a
complex amalgam of disjointed public programs and a private sector, each of which went



                                              2

its own way, with little coordination, integration or competition between program
providers in either financing or delivery of services. In addition, there was a striking
weakness of the information of health service production in Peru.

At the time of project preparation MINSA had already launched a number of initiatives to
increase access of the poor to health services. These initiatives provided a platform for
the activities that were to receive support by the Project:

    · Enactment in 1997 of a law to launch formally some of the key reforms ­ the
        General Health Law (Ley General de Salud) which provided the normative scope
        for the health sector, and included the establishment of user's rights, so they
        would be recognized by the public and respected by service providers.
    · Implementation of the School Insurance (Seguro Escolar) in 1997 to provide free
        health services and medicines for about 6 million children in the 4 to17 age cohort
        attending public schools.      Piloting in 1999 in the regions of Tacna and
        Moyobamba of the Maternal and Child Health Insurance scheme (Seguro
        Materno Infantil SMI), a reimbursement mechanism that paid eligible providers
        for a package of essential health services for mothers and children under 3 years
        of age. These two insurance mechanisms were seen as the seed for a more
        comprehensive basic health package for the poor envisioned to be achieved over a
        ten-year horizon.
    · Streamlining of a community participation reform initiated in 1994. The
        Community-Managed Health Facilities (Comités Locales de Administración de
        Salud- CLAS) were conceived as private-public, non-profit entities at the local
        level working under agreement with the Regional Health Authorities
        (Direcciones de Salud Regional DISAs), deconcentrated units belonging to
        MINSA located in each Department of the country). These agreements allowed
        the CLAS to receive and administer public treasury funds to provide health
        services through a health center or post under the framework of a locally-
        developed health plan. The CLAS aimed at improving the quality and increasing
        the coverage of ambulatory services at the primary health level through greater
        participation by the community in the planning, management and supervision of
        public resources destined for health provision to the poor.

Rationale for Bank assistance. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Peru
had as its main objective the reduction of poverty and improvement of Peru's human
capital base. As part of the AAA package, a health sector study was carried out (Peru,
Improving Health Care for the Poor, initiated in 1997 and published in 1999). This
study made five critical recommendations: i) establishing a sharper focus on the health
needs of the poor in the allocation of public funds; ii) reinforcing that focus on the poor
among MINSA health providers (improved targeting, increased access by the poor to
hospital services, enhanced community participation); iii) creating new insurance
mechanisms to finance health care for the poor; iv) improving the information and
management systems needed to run MINSA's programs for the poor efficiently and
without duplication; and v) refining human resource skill requirements and incentives to
better serve poverty ­oriented programs.         These recommendations were addressed



                                              3

through a complex program that included the Programmatic Social Reform (comprised of
four policy-based loans between 2001 and 2004), the Health Reform Program
(PARSALUD) and a Technical Assistance Loan on accountability systems for the social
sectors.

The World Bank (Bank) was prepared to support the medium-term financial and
technical assistance requirements for the Government's health reform through a three-
phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL), where each phase was expected to last an
average of about three years. An APL was chosen as the financial instrument instead of a
single sector investment loan because it allowed for the timing and flexibility required to
implement and sustain the several incremental changes needed in a long-term and
complex health reform like the one the Government of Peru envisaged. The first phase
(corresponding to this Project) was expected to cover from FY00 to FY04, with an
expected loan amount of US$80 million equivalent, aimed at financing reimbursements
to SMI, supply side investments in 10 Regions (17 DISAs) and technical assistance for
the preparatory analytical work, sensitization activities and piloting required to ensure the
enabling conditions to undertake more complex tasks during the second and third phases.
The second phase, running initially from FY04 to FY07, with an expected loan amount of
US$50 million equivalent, aimed at: (i) tackling the full implementation of the maternal-
child health insurance (private and public); (ii) improving the health manpower; and (iii)
enhancing the autonomy of hospitals. The consolidation of the health reform was to be
included in phase III, planned for FY07-FY10, with an estimated loan of about US$50
million equivalent.

Cofinanciers.     The Health Reform Program, as originally designed, included
independent parallel co-financing from the IDB through a separate loan of US$87 million
also lasting about three-years. The IDB financing was to benefit a similar number of
poor mothers and children as the Bank-financed investment in 16 other Regions (17
DISAs) of the country. In addition, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) had committed US$8 million and the Government of Great Britain's Department
for International Development (DFID) was to provide financial support and technical
assistance to carry out a community health survey (under Component B of the proposed
Project). As will be described below, the IDB loan was reduced to US$ 28 million, while
the OPEC and DFID financing did not occur.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Project was the first phase of a three-phase adjustable program loan. The goals of
the overall program were: (a) improve maternal and child health; and (b) help reduce
morbidity and deaths of the poor from communicable diseases and inadequate
environmental conditions.

The project development objective for phase 1 of the APL was to increase access of the
poor to better quality health programs and services. This access would be improved
by strengthening the demand for services and the quality of the supply. The demand



                                             4

would be strengthened through the implementation of a Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI,
this was later renamed as Seguro Integral de Salud or SIS). The quality of supply would
be enhanced by increased community participation (mainly through the CLAS system),
by reducing fragmentation in the delivery of maternal and child and environmental health
services and by adapting investments to local needs.

Since the objective of the Project was to increase access, six access indicators were
chosen as key performance indicators. These were:

    · births attended by skilled health personnel;
    · pregnant women receiving the recommended prenatal care;
    · beneficiaries receiving primary care;
    · child immunization of DPT3;
    · children attended for acute respiratory infection; and,
    · children attended for acute diarrhea disease

As required for each phase of APLs, in addition to the key performance indicators, the
Project had several trigger indicators that needed to be satisfied to determine the
readiness for launching phase 2 of the APL. These consisted of five performance
milestones:

    · SMI implemented nationally;
    · At least a third of all primary care clinics administered by CLAS;
    · Fragmentation of mother and child and environmental programs reduced;
    · Report on Benefit incidence of the investments of phase 1 and recommendations
       for phase 2; and,
    · Loan fully committed and 80% disbursed.

In addition to these performance milestones (which reflect the result of activities
supported by the project), three policy actions were expected to be taken to promote
policy-readiness for the second phase ­ these actions were selected on the assumption
that phase 2 of the APL would focus on the social security (ESSALUD) system of
provision. These actions included:

     · Legal framework for provision of services by ESSALUD and MINSA hospitals;
     · Recommendations of policy studies on separation of financing and service
        provision in ESSALUD;
     · Recommendations of policy studies on health manpower issues.



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The original PDOs and Key Indicators remained unchanged.




                                             5

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Original beneficiary target: There were targets at the national level for the SIS
component and targets at the project area level for the investment components. For the
SIS component the target was to reach 1,378,000 pregnant women and 3,599,000
children less than 4 years of age1; and for the investment components the target was to
reach 815,000 pregnant mothers and 1,990,000 under-4 year olds in 10
departments2 during the 4 years of project.

Revised Target: There was a project restructuring in November 2003. The target
population remained unchanged for the SIS component. For the investment components,
the number of departments in the project area was reduced from 10 to 3 (which included
the following four DISAs: Apurimac 1, Apurimac 2, Cuzco and Puno). At the time of
restructuring, there was the expectation that the number of beneficiaries would be
significantly less than the original beneficiary target in the project area, 339,000 pregnant
mothers and 823,000 children under 4. As explained below however, that expectation
proved to be unnecessarily pessimistic.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The following four components were included in the original design of the Project and in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement:

Component A - Strengthening health demand. The objective of this component was to
reduce the economic barriers to utilization of health services through the implementation
of the SMI, benefiting low income mothers and children through the: (a) reimbursement
of eligible medical services provided by eligible health facilities in the Project area; (b)
establishment and operation of the SMI unit and its regional offices; and (c) provision of
technical assistance for the monitoring and evaluation of the SMI program
implementation activities.

Component B - Strengthening decentralization, policy development and institutional
modernization. The objective of this component was to improve the quality of MINSA
health programs through:(a) decentralization of the Borrower's health system, through the
provision of the required technical assistance and training for the establishment and


1Annex 2a of the Appraisal Document.
2Puno, Apurimac, Cajamarca, Cuzco, Lambayeque, Piura, Tumbes, La Libertad, Madre de Dios, Lima
Norte y Lima Sur.




                                              6

strengthening of the CLAS; (b) provision of technical assistance and training to the
DISAs and municipalities to improve their ability to manage the delivery of preventive,
promotional and curative health services within their respective jurisdictions; (c)
provision of technical assistance and training for the redefinition of the role of the
MINSA in the areas of: (i) formulation of health norms and supervision of their
implementation by public and private health providers; (ii) ensuring equitable access to
health services by low income population; (iii) strengthening mother, child and
environmental health programs; and (iv) promoting and maintaining public health; and,
(d) provision of technical assistance to strengthen MINSA's monitoring and evaluation
capacity for: (i) conducting two types of household surveys - a health and demographic
survey to produce estimates on health outcomes (including infant and maternal mortality)
and an annual community health survey3, to serve as a basis for identifying local health
needs; and (ii) establishing a yearly module to the quarterly household surveys (Encuesta
Nacional de Hogares - ENAHO), in order to measure the coverage of key interventions.

Component C - Improving the quality of health programs and services - Investment
support for regional and local health plans. This component had as its main objective
improving the quality in the supply of health services through the financing of regional
and local health investment sub-projects in response to health priorities at the regional
and local levels. Under this component, the Project would finance health-related civil
works in project areas, acquisition of medical equipment and supplies and provision of
technical assistance.    The Project design assumed that the Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO) would provide technical assistance to selected DISAs for the
formulation of their regional plan, and if needed, in the supervision of the execution of
these plans.

Component D - Project coordination. This component would finance the establishment
and operation of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Health.

1.6 Revised Components

When the closing date was first extended, in November 2003, MINSA, with Bank
support implemented the following changes:

(a) The logical framework was revised ensuring that it reflected a causality model, whose
design was based on international evidence on maternal and neonatal mortality. The
logical framework now called for monitoring five indicators that mainly explain changes
in maternal and peri-natal mortality.

(b) The demand component (Component A) was strengthened to support the improved
targeting of SIS affiliations and attentions to the two poorest quintiles and to include an
intercultural strategy to reduce linguistic and cultural barriers among pregnant women
belonging to ethnic groups.


3 This annual community survey was originally supposed to be financed by DFID, which never
materialized.


                                              7

(c) Components B and C of the original design were treated as a holistic set of supply
interventions and limited in geographical scope to the eight Regions where the highest
incidence of maternal and neonatal mortality were found. Furthermore, the interventions
were targeted within the Regions and standardized under WHO standards on obstetric
services, leading to the proposed improvement of the quality of maternal and peri-natal
services in 79 health facilities to be equipped with basic (BONF) or essential (EONF)
obstetric and neo-natal equipment and staffed with qualified and trained personnel4 . The
original thematic scope to be included in PARSALUD comprising child morbidity and
mortality, communicable diseases (like AIDS, tuberculosis, etc.) and inadequate
environmental conditions (causing malaria, yellow fever, dengue, cholera, rabies,
inappropriate handling of food, etc.) were eliminated from the scope of the Project
targeting instead only maternal and peri-natal mortality.

(d) Procurement was centralized in the PCU.

Accordingly, a new action-plan for the periods 2004-2005, confirming the Project's
original developmental objectives, was agreed with the Bank and loan closing date was
extended from December 31, 2003 to December 15, 2005.


1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The original design of the Project included a ground-breaking characteristic ­ it included
a component that would disburse against results (i.e. it would reimburse the government a
certain amount for each child and mother covered by SIS, in a way that resembled the
payment of an insurance premium). The reimbursements component, which is a common
feature in projects recently approved in other LCR countries, was cancelled from the loan
at the request of the Government. Thus, the World Bank loan was reduced from US$ 80
million to US$ 27 million and the IDB loan was reduced from US$ 87 million to US$ 28
million. Project activities were carried out as planned, but financing for reimbursements
came from the National Budget. The cancellation meant that the Bank continued to be
involved, through technical assistance, in the design, planning and implementation of the
SIS, but to a much lesser extent than would otherwise have been the case.

The investment component was originally planned as a fund, which would finance
investments on demand from communities. The communities would justify their requests
by developing a local health plan related to the area of influence of a health clinic. This
component was amended to develop a system of investment planning (i) based on
technical criteria developed by WHO to ensure the safe provision of basic obstetric and
neo-natal functions (BONF) and (ii) to exercise planning at a macro-level relevant not


4Essential Elements of Obstetric Care at First Referral Level, WHO (1991)




                                                     8

only for individual clinics but for networks serving multiple clinics and including higher
complexity reference services needed to provide safe motherhood services.

Accordingly, the following intermediate indicators were added, in order to monitor the
proposed implementation plan: (i) percentage of attended deliveries which received
oxitocin in the Project area; (ii) percentage of deliveries financed by SIS in the first two
quintiles of population in the Project area; (iii) number of health facilities refurbished to comply
with Essential Obstetric Function (EOF), Basic Obstetric Function (BOF) and Basic Maternal
and Child services capacity; and (iv) percentage of references with respect to the number of
attentions.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

There were three aspects that were clearly linked to the Quality at Entry of the Project, as
follows.

Client orientation and timing of the lending process. The Bank preparation team
demonstrated sensitivity and commitment to results that were in the GP's best interest and
consistent with the government health policies and conceptual strategies existing at the
time. In particular, the Project responded to the analytical work carried out by MINSA
and the Bank on the reforms needed in the health sector.

Lessons learned. The Project design was built upon experiences of relevant Bank-
financed operations over the nineties, including the then ongoing Peru Basic Health and
Nutrition project, as well as the recommendations from the Bank's health sector analytical
work, Peru: Improving Health Care of the Poor. Accordingly, the following five lessons
were included in the design: (i) ensuring that the Project's developmental objectives were
linked to a clear policy framework; (ii) confirming strong GP and stakeholder
commitment to the health reform at the national, regional, municipal and local levels; (iii)
instituting a flexible approach to launch sector-wide incremental reform changes
addressing both demand and supply side interventions; (iv) providing results-based
financing; and (v) promoting the decentralization process under a context of ensuring
accountability and equity. In addition, the design benefited from the lessons derived
from the SMI piloting.

However, the project design: (a) was complex and included too many health related
issues to tackle; and (b) did not take into sufficient consideration the potential difficulties
that MINSA would have in obtaining information systems and human technical support
for effective management of the intended reform process.

Technical and institutional aspects. The lending process was supported by various
analytical work, in particular the Peru: Improving Health Care of the Poor and other


                                                   9

MINSA commissioned papers. The lending phase profited from a benefit incidence of
health expenditures, whose main findings appear in one of the Annexes to the PAD. In
addition, a financial fiscal impact of the health reform was also estimated concluding that
at the macroeconomic level it would represent a net addition of 0.1 percent of GDP and
compared to a no-project scenario.

A social assessment was carried out to detect relevant cultural patterns of users and health
providers and to understand the gaps impeding the improvement and use of health
services in general, and a Participation and Social Communication Strategy, as well as an
Indigenous People Plan were derived from this assessment.            Still, the intercultural
strategy was designed only during the implementation phase and launched from mid-
2004 onwards. This strategy turned out to be a key element in reviving the financial and
physical implementation progress.

The design recognized the need to address the multidimensional and cross-sectoral
approach necessary to improve and maintain the population's health. Thus, a DPL
program was designed (PSRL I-IV) which addressed the key policy issues in all three
social sectors, including those policies being supported by PARSALUD I. In addition,
preparation of this Project occurred under close coordination with other relevant
operations in rural education, rural water supply, rural roads and indigenous population.

On the down side, there were a number of loan effectiveness conditions in the original
PAD that required longer than expected to be met. First, despite the fact that there was a
draft Operational Manual at the time of appraisal, this still needed to be updated and
approved by the Borrower.            Second, according to Section I (Readiness for
Implementation) of the PAD there was not an implementation plan and schedule
available at the time of appraisal. Third, no agreements had yet been signed between
MINSA and each of the DISAs in the project areas, neither with INEI for the carrying of
the surveys included under component B. Fourth, DISAs had not yet submitted their
first-year annual regional operating plan.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

There were five factors subject to government control that hindered a more effective and
timely project implementation. The first factor concerns the political uncertainty caused
by the resignation of President Fujimori in September 2000, the subsequent appointment
of an interim government by the Peruvian Congress and the election of President Toledo
that followed in July 2001. These unforeseen political events caused significant delays in
the: (i) signing of the loan agreement; (ii) compliance with the conditions of loan
effectiveness; and (iii) launching of the Project and its subsequent implementation. Not
all the health authorities that led MINSA during the Project, amounting to six Ministers
and eight Vice-ministers, bought into the Project ethos. Accordingly, marching orders
issued by one authority were at times followed by counter-marching directives of the next,
creating along the way confusion and paralysis among the implementing units waiting to



                                             10

see if the health policies underpinning the Project were to be ratified or modified. Also,
the various Bank supervision teams witnessed the dismantling by one administration of
the technical unit that was selected and trained in a previous one. This deconstruction of
in-built capacity for merely political reasons was extremely detrimental to the early
stages of project implementation, given that it took time to replace the skilled staff and
train them.

The second factor refers to the initial difficulties derived from the fusion of the SMI,
previously managed by the PARSALUD administration, and the SEG, into the SIS, an
autonomous institution. Initially, there was lack of coordination between MINSA, SIS
and PARSALUD resulting in different approaches towards the envisaged health reform.
The Bank, through the PSRL DPL loan, as well as through the PARSALUD, carried out a
dialogue with the various parties, to promote a better understanding of the different roles
that each institution had as part of the proposed reform.

The third factor refers to the tensions existing between the central health authorities of
MINSA and the regional health authorities, as part of a slow decentralization process
where the delegation of functions were not clear. The Performance-based Management
Agreements, explained elsewhere in the ICR, clarifying roles, responsibilities and
accountability mechanisms, were to be the effective instruments addressing these
operational tensions that were delaying project implementation.

The fourth factor refers to the budgetary restrictions imposed by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) during the Project's early years, where counterpart
resources were not released in a timely manner. As a consequence, project activities
requiring counterpart funding were delayed. These budgetary restrictions were in turn a
natural response by MEF to the Project's lack of physical and financial implementation
progress in its early years.

The fifth factor refers to the long delays in having the Sistema Nacional de Inversión
Pública (SNIP)5 approve the civil works and some large acquisition of Project-related
goods.

In addition, there were two major factors under the implementing agency's control which
slowed down the execution pace. The first one concerned to the difficulties in
establishing an effective PCU team. There were frequent changes of project management
derived from the political changes at the Executive Branch. There were frequent changes
of Ministers and Vice-ministers of Health, resulting in gaps and implementation delays
until new decision making teams were put in place in the PCU. The design also
contemplated a small PCU with no more than 10 staff whose only purpose was to
coordinate and facilitate the implementation of the Project through the mainstream units
within MINSA, DISAs and CLASs in order to minimize the parallel "bubble"


5The concept of SNIP emerges in 2002 within the Ministry of Economy and enacted as a project appraisal
instrument for the control of the pertinence and quality of publicly-financed investments in all the sectors
of the GP.



                                                   11

institutional arrangement. While the PCU was small at the initial stage, it grew to over 50
staff at the national level including one Project coordinator in each one of the eight
participating DISAs. This growth became necessary to ensure successful implementation
of projects financed by both the World Bank and the IDB, which had not yet harmonized
procurement or financial management processes.

The second factor refers to the lack of an effective and relevant implementation plan and
schedule in the 2001-2003 time period, hindering the translation of the Project's
conceptual philosophy into concrete and targeted actions. The causality model was
developed in 2003, at which point the results oriented plan was designed, guiding project
implementation from 2004 onwards.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PAD included baseline information at the aggregate national level, which was
available during the appraisal stage. The aim was to provide the required DISAs baseline
data through the 2000 DHS survey and to measure progress in health conditions,
including infant and maternal mortality, through a second survey in 2003. In addition,
other sources of information, both from national surveys and from MINSA statistics
systems were expected to provide the necessary information for the Project monitoring
system.

While the launching of the monitoring was slow, towards the end of 2003, the Project
developed a monitoring system, based on MINSA information systems that allowed
timely reporting of key Project indicators in the eight DISAs and nationally for SIS
indicators. This system was regularly used by Project staff to ensure that investments
were targeted to critical areas within these jurisdictions.       In addition, the system
contributed significantly to monitor SIS targeting to the poorer quintiles.

The project also implemented a training program on monitoring and evaluation in the
eight DISAs to develop local capacity in monitoring maternal and child health indicators.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Financial management, procurement and environmental assessments were done during
the preparation phase. The procurement assessment rated the project as average risk with
respect to procurement aspects and recommendations were included in the draft
Operational Manual. The financial assessment indicated that there was not an adequate
project financial management system in place to handle a project management reports-
based disbursement scheme and an action plan was agreed upon with the Borrower to
address these financial monitoring gaps.




                                             12

The project complied with OP/BP 10.02 (financial management), OP/BP 11.00
(procurement), OP/BP 12.00 (Disbursement), OP 4.01 (environmental assessment) and
OP. 4.10 (indigenous peoples).

This Project was subjected to annual random ex-post procurement and in-depth financial
management reviews which found no major issues on procurement related matters and
compliance with Bank financial management requirements. Recommendations emerging
from these reviews were appropriately addressed by the Borrower. During the life of the
Project, financial management reporting by the Borrower changed from the Project
Management Reports (linking disbursements with the achievement of physical targets) to
the current quarterly Financial Management Reports (de-linking in the reporting the
achievement of physical targets from the actual disbursements).

The Project was classified as Category B with respect to environmental risks. After the
inflection point of November 2003, the various supervision teams regularly monitored the
compliance with the environmental regulations and appropriate procedures for handling
and managing medical waste at the participating health facilities, finding no relevant
issues.

The Project addressed key issues linked to Indigenous peoples through a number of
activities linked to cultural adaptation of services, including providing for vertical birth,
and training of health professionals in local culture and language.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Given that this Project corresponds to the first of three envisaged phases of an APL, the
whole issue of sustainability can only be definitely addressed in the ICR corresponding to
the completion of the final phase, since many of the activities included in the first phase
are to be continued under the second one.         At this stage, however, there are four
dimensions of the Project that lead to a ranking of the Project sustainability as likely.

First, the new Government of President Alan Garcia has ratified that reducing maternal
and peri-natal mortality is an unfinished agenda in the health policy of the vulnerable
population, and as such, it has been granted priority in the political health platform of the
new administration. In addition, the incoming administration continues to adhere to the
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, one of which is reduction of
maternal and child mortality rates. Finally, the new Government has ratified its support
to the Acuerdo Nacional (National Agreement) which includes goals and indicators on
maternal and child mortality.

Second, the SIS scheme is to be continued and strengthened. The CY05 budget for its
five programs amounted to US$77 million equivalent (US$56.6 million equivalent for
Programs A and C related to the Project) and the forecasted CY06 executed budget will



                                             13

reach more or less a similar amount. An equivalent amount for the 2007 budget is
expected.

Third, the basic and essential obstetric protocols--including the competency-based
standards required by skilled professionals at the health centers to attend maternal and
peri-natal services provided by the Project --have been adopted and regulated at a
national level by MINSA.           Likewise, the causality chain model developed by
PARSALUD is now a modus-operandi of MINSA.

Fourth, the BONF and EONF infrastructure built and/or rehabilitated and equipped by the
Project in 74 health facility centers is being utilized by an ever growing number of
pregnant women belonging to the lowest two income-quintiles resulting from the demand
financing through SIS, the promotional activities and the intercultural strategy
implemented by PARSALUD.             Despite this achievement, preventive and corrective
maintenance of these health facilities is a pending agenda, and therefore, the medium-
term sustainability of these health facilities is likely to be compromised, unless this issue
is addressed. The MINSA is currently negotiating with the Regions, as part of the
decentralization process, for the inclusion of maintenance items in their budgets.

With respect to the transition arrangement to regular operation, the SIS, the maternal and
peri-natal health protocols and the intercultural strategies utilized to increase the effective
demand of poor vulnerable pregnant women are already institutionalized in the
mainstream institutions.

The Bank is currently preparing the second phase, PARSALUD II, which is also
expected to support the maternal and child mortality reduction objective, through both the
demand and supply strategies of the first phase. In addition, this Project aims to support
the GP's ongoing decentralization process. As already mentioned, appraisal is expected
in May 2007 and Board approval in September 2007.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of objectives. The objective - increase access of the poor to better quality
health programs and services - continues to be highly relevant in present-day Peru. The
new December 2006 Country Partnership Strategy notes that in recent years Peru has
leapt forward in terms of improving the key health indicators of the population, including
a large acceleration in the rate of reduction of the infant mortality rate. The CPS proposes
to implement a cluster of activities (including AAA, investment loans, DPLs and grants)
over the 2006 to 2011 period to sustain the gains of recent years. The CPS explains that
the main successes of recent years in health have been in access and that in the next stage
the emphasis must be to continue improving results by improving quality and sustaining
the gains in coverage.



                                              14

Relevance of design. The design of phase 1 of the APL is also relevant for present day
Peru as evidenced by the Government's desire to use a similar design in the preparation of
phase 2 of the APL (this new project is in the pre-appraisal stage, having gone past a
crucial first threshold of review by the highly demanding National System of Public
Investment or SNIP). The main features of design included: (i) the implementation of the
APL as part of a cluster of Bank instruments, including careful analytical work done
under a AAA, intensive policy dialogue with high level economic and sectoral authorities
supported by a series of DPLs and capacity building financed by the APL; (ii) the
simultaneous use of components to strengthen the demand for services (through the
implementation of the SIS) and the supply of services financed by an investment
component; and (iii) the use of flexible investment planning instruments for regional
sub-projects that led to investments adapted to different regional needs.

Relevance of implementation. On the demand side, the reimbursements provided by SIS
are an effective means of reducing the economic barrier faced by potential health service
users.   Given that reimbursement processing requires fluid transaction processes,
different from the traditional flow of funds and fiduciary functions used by the national
budget, the implementation was initially handled by the PARSALUD team.               This
mechanism was used in order to allow access to the more flexible procedures associated
with Bank projects instead of the more rigid procedures associated with budget financing.
After the initial phase, new norms were passed allowing SIS to use the reimbursement
procedures developed under the project, but under a sustainable institutional structure.
On the supply side, the provision of services through networks composed of lower
complexity facilities (health posts and BONF facilities) and higher complexity facilities
(EONF) has shown to be an efficient and effective strategy to respond to dispersed
populations. The challenge that remains for the second phase is to ensure that the
reference and counter-reference system works adequately and is subject to SIS
reimbursement. As part of the decentralization process, the Regions now have the
responsibility of planning and designing public investments in all sectors, including
health. The Project team worked closely with the eight Regional Health Directorates to
develop investment plans targeted to maternal and child health results. These plans
include the detailed requirements set by the National Public Investment System (Sistema
Nacional de Inversión Pública, SNIP).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

PDOs have been successfully achieved: (i) Most of the targets for the Project
Development objectives of phase 1 of the APL (the key performance indicators described
in the text of the PAD and in Annex 1) have been met or surpassed. (ii) The Program
Development Objectives (i.e. the objectives for the three phases of the APL) have targets
for 2010 and not for each phase of the program because at the time of appraisal it was
decided that they could not be measured with precision or sufficiently influenced over
shorter periods of time; however, existing data suggest that the targets for the program



                                            15

are likely to be reached long before the original target date, and (iii) all performance
milestones identified as triggers for the successful completion of phase 1 have been
met. These achievements are described below.

Two Program Development Objectives (or higher level outcome indicators) were
utilized: the infant mortality rate (IMR) and the peri-natal mortality rate. The most recent
data on IMR (IMR of 22.3 per thousand in 20046) shows a strong acceleration in the
reduction of infant mortality compared to the trend that existed before 2000. Assuming
that this trend has continued, the target for 2010 (IMR of 20) was already reached in 2005,
five years ahead of schedule. The speed in the rate of reduction of IMR during 2000-2005
is higher in Peru than in all other countries in LCR for which data is available (See Figure
1, and Figure 2). Unfortunately, no data is available for peri-natal mortality at this point,
however many analysts believe that the existing gains in IMR are suggestive of gains in
peri-natal mortality.7

                                                         Figure 1


                                  Infant Mortality Rate increase/decrease (%)
                                            between 2000 and 2004 in LCR


          10%                                                                                     7%

           5%

           0%

          -5%      -6%                                                                  -6%
         -10%                                                          -8%
                                       -11%      -10%                       -9%

         -15%              -14%                            -15%

         -20%

         -25%
                                                                                -27%
         -30%
              Argentina Bolivia      Chile    Colombia Ecuador Mexico Paraguay  Peru Venezuela Uruguay


 Source: The World Bank's Health, Nutrition and Population data platform.




6 This IMR was measured by the National Statistics Institute (INEI) through the Continuous National
Survey (Encuesta Nacional Continua). The reference period for the measurement of IMR gives an estimate
for 2005-2006.
7Infant mortality is a measure of death of children under 1 year of age; it can be decomposed into peri-
natal mortality (deaths under one month of age) and mortality of children one month to twelve months of
age. At relatively high levels of IMR (of 60 and over) most reduction in mortality is achieved by prevention
of deaths in the later months of the period (deaths due to diarrhea or vaccine preventable disease), but as
IMR reaches lower levels, it's continued reduction increasingly requires improvement in peri-natal
mortality.




                                                              16

                                                               Figure2


                                              Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000)
  35.44444 29.77778 23.88889 21.55556
   70    60            46             33            24

   60                 60

   50                                            46
   40                                                                                                              LCR mean*
                                                                            33
   30                                                                                                              Peru

   20                                                                                                24

   10

    0
                  1990                      1995                        2000                    2004


* LCR's countries wich started with IMR of 30 or more in 1990 (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico and Paraguay).
Source: The World Bank's Health, Nutrition and Population data platform.


The large achievement in IMR is the result of many factors and is not exclusively a result
of the expansion in coverage. However, the expansion of coverage was prominent during
the Project period and it was strengthened by the cluster of activities supported by the
Bank in health. PARSALUD worked together with the PSRLs and with the AAA to
support the Government's policies that strengthened demand for health services through
the national implementation of SIS, and the implementation of SIS was clearly a
determinant in the large expansion of coverage during the period. Coverage also
benefited from the improved quality of supply in the poorest regions of the country that
was partly obtained by reforms and investments that were also supported by the cluster of
Bank health activities.

The achievements in the key performance indicators of the project are summarized in
Table 1. Targets have been achieved or exceeded for births attended by skilled health
personnel, beneficiaries receiving primary care, children attended for acute respiratory
infection and for acute diarrhea. Yellow fever is now considered a high risk disease and
by law all cases identified and reported must be attended8. In immunizations, the
numerical target of coverage was not reached because the immunization program became
more ambitious in its scope. Instead of continuing expanding coverage of DPT3 ­ a
vaccine that is simple to apply and has low logistical requirements-- a more complex
combination of vaccine was adopted (the Pentavalent, which includes DPT3, Hepatitis B
and Haemophilus Influenzae type b vaccines9). This new combination of vaccines is
more powerful in its impact on mortality and morbidity (and is likely to have contributed


8 Legal framework: "Directiva N° 001 99 OGE ­ OEVEE". OGE (MINSA) Protocols of Epidemiological
Surveillance - Part I.
9Legal framework: "Directiva N° 033-MINSA/DGSP-V.03.




                                                                    17

to the acceleration in the improvement of outcomes), but is more demanding in its
application and logistics.

Regional and local health plans were institutionalized in 2002, as prescribed in the
General Health Law (No 27657 of 2002). Each Region carries out a Health Situation
Analysis (ASIS) which describes the sanitary conditions annually. The ASIS describe
prevalence of communicable diseases in the region, as well as the climatic, social and
cultural conditions. When relevant, the documents include description of environmental
health problems, for example, Apurimac I ASIS 2004 includes detection and control of
food and water contaminations and Cusco ASIS 2005 includes air pollution indicators. In
addition, each region signs with the central Government Annual Management
Agreements (Acuerdos de Gestión) in which they agree to meet certain targets with
respect to specific health results which include the prevention and treatment of
communicable diseases as well as other prevalent health problems.

                                                    Table 1
                                   Project Development Objective Indicators


                          Indicators                               Baseline                       Result
                                                                    (2000)       Target           (2005)     Achieve

 Percentage of births which had more than or equal to 4
 antenatal visits by a skilled professional (Project area)            32.20%         51.36%        57.20%     YES
 Percentage of deliveries attended by a skilled health
 professional (doctor or trained midwife). (Project area)             27.60%         36.70%        50.90%     YES

 Number of cases of acute respiratory infections (IRA) in
 the children under age 5 attended (annual)*                        8,747,589    3,700,000       7,742,457  see below
 Number of cases of acute diarrhea (EDA) in children
 under age 5 attended (annual)*                                     4,535,892       780,000      4,531,800  see below
 Percentage of children between 18 and 29 months
 vaccinated with DPT3 (Project area)**                              78.30%              95%      87.41%       NO
 Number of beneficiaries receive care in the primary
 facilities of MINSA annually                                                   17,000,000                    YES
 Increase in the number of municipalities with DPT3
 coverage for children under age 1 **                                  -               44%           -      see below

 Percentages of yellow fever cases attended ***                        -                80%       100%        YES
 Percentages of health departments (DISAs) which are
 implementing regional and local health plans that
 respond to communicable diseases and environmental
 health problems prevalent in their respective
 localities****                                                        -                80%       100%        YES
 * IRA and EDA targets were established originally as absolute numbers due to lack of baseline numbers during
 Project preparation. Absolute numbers are difficult to interpret, particularly for these two illnesses.
 ** DPT3 was replaced by a more complex vaccine, so that its coverage at the regional level has been reduced in the
 last years. Data at the district or municipality level is not available.
 *** Yellow fever is a disease under weekly national surveillance. By law, the reported cases have to be attended.
 **** All DISAs, regularly sign annual Management Agreements with the Ministry of Health, reflecting
 commitments with respect to regional health priorities and indicators with quantitative goals for the period.




                                                        18

The performance milestones designed as triggers have all been met:

    · The SIS (which replaced the SMI) was implemented nationally in 2002, ahead of
         the scheduled date of 2003.
    · A third of primary care clinics were administered by CLAS. This strengthened the
         quality of service in these clinics.10 In early 2006, during the final months of the
         project, the Government changed the labor legislation giving CLAS employees
         the status of civil servants. The Government will need to ensure that quality gains
         are not lost over the next few years as the new legislation is implemented.
    · Fragmentation of the formerly "vertical" programs was reduced.                       The MINSA
         area responsible for the vertical programs was restructured into age-based groups
         and the Integral Health Model was instituted. The budget was integrated for all
         vertical programs. The information systems still need to be unified through an
         integrated MINSA monitoring system. This system is being supported by a
         separate investment loan (Accountability for Decentralization in the Social
         Sectors TAL).
    · The loan was fully committed and disbursed.
    · An assessment of the results of the project was completed by the government to
         produce lessons and recommendations for the formulation of phase 2.                         The
         lessons have been incorporated into the design of PARSALUD 2. An analysis of
         the incidence of health policies (with an application to the project area as data
         permited) is presented as part of Annex 3.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

There have been important gains in effectiveness, efficiency and equity of public
spending on health associated with the initiatives supported by the Project, as shown in
Annex 3 and summarized in this section.

Coverage of SIS (for the maternal and child programs of SIS, which were the main focus
of project support) increased significantly. While the targets in the PAD were considered
ambitious at the time of appraisal, they were surpassed and sustained over time, using
funding by the treasury. By the end of the Project, 503,000 pregnant women and
1,254,000 children (younger than 5 years of age) were expected to benefit from the SMI,
while the actual numbers were, during the last year of full Project implementation (2005),
649,000 pregnant women and 3,444,000 children.

Efficiency of existing health sector resources was raised by increasing their utilization.
While there were some investment in works and equipment during the Project period
(including those financed by the Project), there were small increases in overall public


10CLAS have been shown to have greater productivity per employee, longer hours of operation, higher
levels of patient satisfaction and greater levels of community participation (see RECURSO, p. 130-132)



                                                       19

health expenditures (see Annex 3). Hence the greater demand generated by SIS was
satisfied by achieving higher levels of productivity in previously underutilized facilities.

SIS contributed significantly to improving the targeting of public health expenditure
through a direct and an indirect effect.        Directly, SIS targets the poor through
geographical and means tested procedures. A benefit analysis of all the large social
programs in Peru, found that in health SIS is the best targeted program (with a
concentration coefficient of -0.08, compared with a concentration coefficient of 0.21 for
expenditures in MINSA hospitals (see RECURSO p. 15). Indirectly SIS also contributes
to improving the distribution of expenditures of other MINSA facilities: by financing the
co-payment that allows the poor entry to a hospital, it directs the (usually larger) subsidy
to the facility to the poor beneficiary.

Annex 3 also presents significant estimates for the net present value of the Project and
shows that it had a low fiscal impact: The mother and child components of SIS have a
relatively small cost (5% of public health expenditure or 0.07% of GDP), and this
increase has been easily absorbed in the budget. Investment expenditures in 2005 were
only 0.4% of public health expenditures and their recurrent cost implications are also
minimal11.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory
The project is rated as satisfactory, considering that relevance is judged to be
satisfactory, achievement of PDOs is judged to be satisfactory (but as explained, the
attribution for the outcomes is likely to be stronger for the cluster of Bank activities that
had those PDOs than for each of the activities individually), and efficiency is also judged
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project did not directly measure poverty or gender indicators. However, the main
beneficiaries of this Project are women and children and positive impacts were
determined with respect to maternal and child health. Thus, the Project is very likely
contributing to overall objective of poverty reduction, with a particular impact on women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)


11 Source: PIU PARSALUD I, SIS and SIAF/MEF.




                                             20

SIS is without doubt the most significant institutional innovation of the Peruvian health
sector in the last decade. It consists of a system of reimbursements for services produced
by health providers to poor users.          It includes systems of geographic targeting,
identification of poor users and defined benefit packages. The system was expanded and
developed with support from the project and is today an essential instrument of the health
system, fully institutionalized in its normative and in its financing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low or Negligible

The Risk to Development Outcome is considered to be low, both for the demand and
supply side components linked to the maternal and child health results. On the demand
side, SIS is an institution that is strongly supported by the current Government, as shown
by the continuous budget support provided and recognized as a valuable service by the
population. On the supply side, the new health standards and reference systems have been
made official within MINSA.          Furthermore, the second phase of this APL and an
upcoming HD DPL program are expected to continue supporting the maternal and child
objectives.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

PARSALUD was identified in mid-1998, appraised in September 1999, negotiated in
November 2000 and approved by the Bank's Board on December 16, 1999. Project
preparation activities were financed by a Japanese Grant (JPN-25368-PE) amounting to
US$778,000 all of which, minus US$177.45, were actually spent.

There was strong coordination among the Bank and IDB's preparation teams. Preparation
missions were carried out jointly. Each Bank prepared its own separate project appraisal
documents, whose technical contents by and large coincided.             There were some


                                              21

differences, especially with respect to the expansion rate of the SIS (where the IDB took
a more gradual approach) and with respect to the kind of support that was needed to
strengthen decentralization and modernize MINSA. The first coordinator of the PCU
ensured the merging of the two appraisal documents into a joint version to allow the PCU
to work on one project description instead of two.

More than eight months elapsed between the preparation mission carried out in
November 1998 and the pre-appraisal missions of July 1999. The lack of a Decree by the
GP formally enacting the SMI (which lacked an institutional and organizational
framework) and clarifying some operational issues, which were crucial for the Project
design, was the main reason for this delay.

The Project preparation process complied with most quality at entry criteria. The Project
was developed following detailed sector work and was an integral part of the Bank's
assistance to the health sector. The strategic relevance of the Project design, which
addressed the demand for health services, has shown to be critically important for the
improvement of health results.      The economic analysis carried out during project
preparation was sufficient to support this strategic approach. Further to this, Bank
fiduciary assessments were carried out as per institutional requirements.

On the other hand, the following difficulties were faced during the preparation process:
(i) while institutional arrangements were clearly identified, the design of the Project
lacked a concrete action-plan and timetable, including activities for the continued
strengthening of the SMI's accounting and internal control systems; (ii) the monitoring
and evaluation arrangements were not sufficiently ready for most of the large list of
output and impact indicators included in Annex 1 of the PAD; (iii) detailed baseline
information and mid-term benchmarks for the primary health centers at the participating
DISAs were not provided at appraisal; (iv) although the Borrower had prepared a draft
Operations Manual by appraisal, the final version was greatly delayed; and, (v) the
preparation process coincided with the end of an elected administration, and effectiveness
conditions overlapped with change in technical teams, resulting in a delay of
approximately 19 months.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project suffered significant delays in signing (15 months after Board approval) and
achieving effectiveness (19 months after Board approval).        These delays were mainly
caused by frequent changes in the Executive Branch of the GP and the resulting
unsettling political scenario that was consequently unleashed, explained in greater detail
under section 10.2.

The Project, launched during the November 16, 2001 supervision mission, was subjected
to a total of 11 field supervision missions during its life, including one mid-term review
(September 25, 2003). On average, two field supervision missions were carried out



                                            22

annually during the six and one half year life span of this Project.               The diverse
supervision missions included the appropriate skill-mix to carry out their envisaged terms
of reference.

A total of four task team leaders (TTLs) were in charge of the lending and supervision of
this Project with tenures ranging from a minimum of 10 months to a maximum of about
four years. There was sufficient continuity between TTLs so that Project supervision was
not affected. The day-to-day supervision of this operation benefited from the presence of
sector-related Bank staff in the office in Lima.

The project electronic files include 16 PSRs/ISRs, implying that there is not necessarily a
one-to-one correspondence between field supervision missions and reports, as continuous
oversight of this investment was carried out on a continuous basis by the Bank Peru
office staff. Supervision reports were updated, on average, every semester, and formal
Bank missions led by Washington staff were undertaken less often.

The quality and pertinence of the information in the PSRs/ISRs is a mixed-story during
the life of the Project. As there was significant delay in the development of the Project
monitoring and evaluation system, developmental and intermediate outcome indicators
were not included in the first thirteen PSRs. From PSR 14 of April 26, 2005 onwards,
these indicators were reported. Accordingly, Bank management lacked information as to
the trend in achieving the project developmental objectives for five of the six and half
years of the life of this first phase of the APL. The Bank supervision teams assigned a
satisfactory rating to the achievement of developmental objectives in the totality of the
first thirteen PSRs and justified its ranking by a qualitative narrative in the reports. These
ratings are not strongly supported with hard evidence. On the other hand, it is important
to recognize the concerted effort by the Bank supervision teams since 2004 to have the
Borrower address the collection of information, analysis and production of outcome
indicators reports in a more regular and consistent fashion.

On the other hand, the Bank supervision teams displayed significant objectivity,
downgrading the ratings of implementation progress, monitoring and evaluation and
management when implementation stalled and increasing the Project's risk rating. Once
the Project was removed from the Bank's "Problem Project List" by the mid 2002, some
of these ratings were improved accordingly.

The various TTLs assigned to this operation displayed appropriate sensitivity and
flexibility to adjust the Project to the existing contextual changes leading to the partial
cancellation of the loan, the two amendments to the LA and the two extensions of closing
dates. The cancellation of $53 million from the original 80 million occurred between
Board approval and the signing of the loan, requiring that the team address the
restructuring of targets, costs and implementation schedule. Also, discussions held with
the Borrower in the latter part of 2003 to recommend the first extension to the closing
date, led to the turning and inflection point of the life of the project, as detailed in section
6.6 of the ICR. Once evidence was made available to the Bank during the second
semester of 2004 about the degree to which some of the agreed first phase triggers were



                                              23

being attained, the Bank supervision teams were able to build a case in support of the
financing of a second phase. Consequently, preparation activities of PARSALUD II were
started in the second semester of 2005, aiming to appraise the proposal on or about
February 2007 and take it to the Board in May 2007.

There was a good working rapport between the Bank and the Borrower as well as a close
and coordinated effort with the IDB, producing extremely good results for the Project. Up
to mid-2004, the co-financing of these two multilateral institutions was divided
geographically by DISAs. The Bank supervision teams from mid-2004 onwards were
responsible for convincing the IDB and the Borrower to adopt a more holistic financial
approach. Accordingly, for example, the intercultural strategy financed by the Bank was
utilized in the eight DISAs, and ambulances financed by the IDB loan were provided to
participating health facilities in all DISAs. IDB financing will allow the bridging to the
second phase given that the Bank loan closed on June 30, 2006.

As noted above, while this Project was under implementation, the Bank also supported
the Government of Peru through the PSRL DPL series, with the same technical team.
This strategy led to important synergies in terms of ensuring that policies agreed upon in
the DPL were implemented in the Health sector with adequate financing. This was
particularly relevant for the SIS financing given that, after partial loan cancellation, it was
fully financed by the National Treasury.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above lending and supervision observations and ratings, the ICR rates the
overall Bank performance as satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

At the lending stage. This Project was prepared simultaneously with the IDB-financed
Project, under the agreement that there would be a common Development Objective
focused on maternal and child mortality and that both loans needed to be implemented
under one Project Coordination Unit. The counterpart team was composed of a group of
qualified consultants selected from the then ongoing IDB-financed project.             Project
preparation activities, of both proposals, were coordinated by the Unidad de
Coordinación para la Modernización del Subsector Público de Salud within MINSA.
Some of the consultants in the preparation team were familiar with the implementation of
the previous Bank-financed Basic Health and Nutrition Project, thus they had previous




                                             24

experience with Bank operations, procedures, especially in procurement and financial
management.

The Project design benefited from the findings derived from the SMI piloting in the
DISAs of Tacna and Moyobamba, especially with respect to the reimbursement
mechanism and their required information system and the formation of health networks
with applications of integrated health care protocols for mothers and children. Other
pilots were carried out to test the feasibility of introducing in the Project design the
concept of performance-based payment.

No major issues surfaced during preparation. Hence the Government's performance is
considered satisfactory.

At the implementation stage.

This and the next section of the ICR assess the project along four distinct periods in its
implementation cycle. The original four-year implementation period (December 1999 to
December 2003) was increased to six and half years (to June 30, 2006) and transcended
four administrations. The loan closing date fell one month short of the inauguration of
the newly elected government of President Alan Garcia.

The first period, covering from Board approval in December 1999 until the arrival of the
elected President Toledo in July 2001, was characterized by continuous political changes,
including Ministers and Vice-ministers of Health (some with tenures of less than one
year) and corruption scandals hindering effective compliance with the original Project
implementation schedule. This period was plagued with health policy uncertainties,
orders and counter-orders leading to a highly unsatisfactory rating by the Bank of the
Borrower's performance, listing the investment in the Bank's Problem Project Category
and considering the possibility of canceling the loan. During this period, the Project had
to be restructured, while keeping the same developmental objectives, due to the partial
cancellation of the Bank and the IDB loans.

The second period, covering from July 2001 until November 2003, was characterized by
unsatisfactory physical and financial implementation progress.           The few activities
undertaken by the project, mostly hiring of consultants to support the development of
local health plans and some civil works, were highly unfocused and carried out in a
context of lack of priorities. Total disbursements of loan proceeds by the third quarter of
2003 amounted to about US$7 million. This period was also characterized by high
turnover of qualified technical teams at all levels of the Project's decision making process,
mainly for political reasons (presumed affiliation to the Fujimori regime) without
replacement with other qualified staff, largely for lack of institutional capacity to do so.

During this period, the SMI (previously managed by PARSALUD) and the SEG (which
had its own management team) were fused into SIS, an autonomous agency in MINSA.
At this point, difficulties typically faced by new institutions arose. The various sector
institutions (SIS, MINSA, and PARSALUD) were not clear on their roles in the health



                                             25

reform process. In order to align the PCU to MINSA, the Health Minister, in December
2001, decided to modify the Project's oversight arrangements included in the PAD by
vesting these functions in a Coordinating Committee. The Committee was composed of
MINSA department heads, as well as the SIS Director, chaired by the Vice Minister of
Health and with Secretariat support from the PCU. Although coordination improved
slightly, the Project lacked sufficient political support to launch significant reform
activities.

As a result of a badly-managed decentralization process, the relationship between the
national (MINSA) and regional (DISAs) institutions was tense.                   Roles and
responsibilities with respect to the reform process were not clear and the lack of effective
accountability mechanisms was not appropriately addressed during this period. In order
to address this national-regional issue, MINSA inaugurated in 2002 a system of
Performance-based Agreements (Acuerdos de Gestión) with all the DISAs, establishing
observable and measurable targets for health care coverage for each region and holding
them accountable for reaching these targets, while giving them greater flexibility in
managing their budgets. This was seen as a positive and constructive move to foster
decentralization and to decrease micromanaging procedures from the center. These
agreements have been functioning ever since, and together with the improvements of the
health management information systems producing relevant and timely data since the end
of 2004, have become powerful tools to redirect and target public resources addressing
specific areas and health issues.

MINSA was not fully successful in fully integrating all vertical programs. The budget
was integrated and managed by one administration unit.             The maternal and child
programs were also integrated at the facility level, but this was not the case for other
vertical programs such as vaccination, malaria, TB etc. Monitoring systems were never
integrated and each area in MINSA manages its own system.

The Project's rating for Implementation Performance was upgraded to satisfactory in mid
2002. At the time,, the Borrower had satisfactorily complied with the: (i) establishment
of a functioning Coordinating Committee for PARSALUD under Ministerial Resolution
No. 725-2001 dated December 10, 2001; (ii) hiring of almost all the key PCU senior
staff; and (iii) approval of the Annual Operating Plan and the Investments Manual.

Finally, by early 2003 it had become obvious that the SIS's maternal and child programs
were not adequately covering poor, mostly rural areas, which was considered critical for
achieving of the Project's developmental objectives.         The targeting was eventually
corrected during the third and fourth periods, through intensive promotional activities
increasing access to the SIS among vulnerable population and introducing intercultural
strategies to remove linguistic and cultural constraints to childbirth.

The third period, running from November 2003 until the appointment of the last PCU
coordinator in March 2004, was characterized by a significant improvement in
implementation following a refocusing of Project interventions. Some of the outcomes
initiated in this third period, but better observed in the fourth one, are: (i) improved



                                             26

targeting of SIS to poor and vulnerable populations (where the PSRL dialogue also
contributed); (ii) a more effective articulation between PARSALUD and SIS via
satisfactory implementation of technical assistance to strengthen the SIS (financial,
auditing, information, etc) and close monitoring of key outcome/output indicators in the
participating DISAs; (iii) immediate budgetary increases for PARSALUD; and (iv)
monitoring overall sector reforms progress including performance agreement with public
providers, decentralization and community participation.

The fourth period, covering from March 2004 until the end of the first phase of this APL,
is characterized by the Project's satisfactory physical and financial progress as reported
by all of the Bank's supervision missions since early 2004 onwards. The physical
accomplishments are detailed in sections 3.2 and Annex 2 of the ICR.

Rating: Weighting the highly unsatisfactory performance of the Government up to 2003
with a positive one since November 2003, the ICR team ranks the Government
implementation performance as satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


The PCU had five coordinators: (i) the first one, in place during the Project's appraisal
and loan negotiation, lasting until October 2001; (ii) the tenure of the second one lasted 3
months, from October 2001 to January 2002; (iii) the third one lasted 7 months, from
January 2002 to September 2002; (iv) the fourth one was in place for 16 months
(September 2002 ­ March 2004); and (v) the fifth one was in charge from March 2004
until December 2006. These frequent changes in command, and the short tenure of some
of the PCU coordinators, compounded with all the political uncertainties and structural
issues described before, resulted in much discontinuity that caused significant delays with
the compliance of agreed implementation schedules. In addition, these changes also
caused high turnover of key trained personnel within the PCU, with consequent impact
on Project implementation.

The negative impact of the above-mentioned changes in the PCU is reflected in the
history of the Project's financial and physical implementation progress.         The staff
involved in Project preparation was not the same as those responsible for its early
implementation, resulting in an initial disconnect. The first loan disbursement of one US
million dollars took place on January 10, 2002, about 25 months after loan approval and
six months after loan effectiveness. Two months later, a reimbursement of US$1.07
million was made by the Bank against retroactive financing for eligible expenditures
incurred after the November 1999 appraisal mission. This implies that for more than 30
months after the completion of the appraisal mission (September 1999 to March 2002),
very few Project activities were implemented.

The period 2002 and 2003 was characterized by a sluggish disbursement pace averaging
about US$4 million per year. At the time of the original loan closing date, only one third
of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. Starting in early 2004, loan disbursements


                                            27

began to show a more vigorous pace averaging about US$8.4 million per year, twice the
amount shown in the 2002-2003 period.

The 2004-2005 action plan and schedule prepared by the PCU contributed to speed up the
physical and financial implementation of the Project. This action plan was also seen as a
requirement to bring the first phase of the APL to a smooth and timely completion, and to
finance preparation activities for the second phase of the APL. The ICR recognizes these
efforts made by the implementing agency, which seem to have contributed to better
health-related outcomes and full disbursement of the total loan.

The monitoring and evaluation capacity of the PCU, absent during the first years of
project implementation, improved by 2004 once the causality model was established, and
the process to collect the baseline information in the participating DISA started. By 2004,
the Project's monitoring and evaluation scheme was assisting in the programming and
targeting of Project-financed investments in the eight participating DISAs.

After two failed attempts to select a consulting firm, a qualified consultant was selected.
The final report for PARSALUD was delivered in December 2006.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on all of the above-mentioned observations, borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

(a) Political volatility has a detrimental effect on Project implementation and impact.
Frequent changes of political appointees frequently result in changes in priorities that
lead to confusion in Project teams and delay in project implementation. Given that
political support to Project Development Objectives is critical, timing the preparation and
implementation of a new investment with the political cycle is of important to ensure a
favorable political context.

(b) Use of a variety of lending and non-lending instruments can enhance the
implementation of critical sectoral reforms. The use of AAA, DPLs and Investment loans
allows for widespread dialogue with various stakeholders leading to greater support to
reforms. In particular, AAA products are critical in promoting consensus in the policy
dialogue. In addition, when budget support or restructuring is a critical factor in a reform,
the combination of the DPL, where the Ministry of Finance is the main counterpart, and
the investment loan, where the implementing agency is responsible for the reform, ensure
that all parties are involved in the process.




                                             28

(c) Ensuring implementation readiness conditions prior to negotiations leads to a more
effective and timely physical and financial execution cycle. The strategic design needs to
be clear and have a detailed implementation plan in order launch the Project as soon as it
is approved.

(d) The use of a clear evidence-based causality model can strongly enhance the
achievement of Project Development Objectives. Causality models are likely to guide and
target cost-effective interventions. Along these models, the availability of monitoring
data, as mentioned above, feeds the correction and targeting mechanism as needed.

(e) Intercultural strategies are vital when beneficiaries belong to diverse indigenous
groups. Demand-side interventions are critical to ensure appropriate use of services. In
highly diverse countries, such as Peru, demand-side interventions need to address cultural
barriers together with the economic and geographic barriers. Cultural barriers need to be
well diagnosed and need to include language training when necessary.

(f) Community ownership of project activities is likely to contribute to the sustainability
of a health reform process through participatory maintenance of the goods provided and
promotes decentralization under a context of ensuring accountability and equity.

(g) Rehabilitation of health facilities needs to pay greater attention to overall utility
capacity, in order to ensure that new facilities have sufficient availability of electricity,
water and sanitation services. As the Project only financed maternal and child health
services during the initial stage, rehabilitation and refurbishment designs did not include
additional financing for increased capacity in basic utilities, thus resulting in
overwhelmed facilities. Once this problem was detected, increased capacity of basic
utilities were included in later rehabilitations.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower provided comments linked to two main issues:

Attribution of results to the Project intervention. As explained in section 3.2, this Project
was part of a larger World Bank program that included a series of DPLs (PSRL I-IV) and
a AAA. In addition, other cooperating agencies such as the European Union and Care
have been implementing specific Projects linked to maternal and child health in some of
the Project areas and have, surely, contributed also to results. Thus, the observed results
are clearly a product of a long-standing policy on maternal and child mortality which has
been supported by the World Bank, the IDB, and other agencies.

Implementation of the Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. The Project's
M&E system was clearly innovative and influenced significantly the decision making
process in the Project area. A particular attribute of the system was the fact that it used
existing administrative systems to calculate indicators. Unfortunately, at the central level



                                              29

this system was not as valued as in the regions. The main reason for this is the large
number of existing monitoring systems at the central level, which are not built under the
same platform and have different stakeholders.          Under the follow-on Project,
PARSALUD II, the Government is requesting support for the unification of the various
administrative systems in order to develop a solid M&E system at the MINSA level.

(b) Cofinanciers

The IDB was the main cofinacier for this Project. They reviewed the document and had
no major comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

NA




                                           30

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                     Components                     Estimate   Estimate     Percentage of

                                                    (USD M)    (USD M)       Appraisal

STRENGTHENING HEALTH DEMAND                            148.00        149.00       100.68
STRENGTHENING DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
DEVELOPMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL                           21.40         22.80       106.54
MODERNIZATION
IMPROVING QUALITY OF HEALTH PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES                                            46.50         49.00       105.38

PROJECT COORDINATION                                     7.50         8.00        106.67
                                Total Baseline Cost    223.40        228.80
Physical Contingencies                                   2.60
Price Contingencies                                      2.80
                                Total Project Costs    228.80
Front-end fee IDB                                        9.70          2.70        27.83
Front-end fee IBRD                                       0.80          0.30         0.80

                          Total Financing Required     239.30        231.80


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds              Type of                            Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing  Estimate   Estimate
                                                    (USD M)    (USD M)       Appraisal

Borrower                                                64.30        176.80       274.96
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK                                                    87.00         28.00        32.18

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                      80.00         27.00        33.75
DEVELOPMENT
OPEC FUND                                                8.00          0.00




                                               31

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A ­ Strengthening Health Demand: Implementation of the SMI/SIS.

This component had as its main objective to reduce the economic barrier through the
implementation of the Seguro Materno Infantil (SMI), specifically through (a) financing
of reimbursements, (b) support to the SMI administration, and (iii) monitoring and
evaluation of the SMI. Prior to the signing of the loan, the GP requested both Banks to
reduce the loan amounts in the amount of the SMI reimbursements and committed to
finance the equivalent through the national treasury funds.         In January 2002, the
Borrower, in the context of Law 27657, integrated the SMI, which had been previously
managed by PARSALUD, and the School Insurance Program under the newly enacted
SIS. This legal and structural change was reflected in the second amendment to the LA
approved by the Bank in May 2004. The autonomy status granted by the Law to SIS,
initially caused difficulties in the relationship with MINSA, while roles were being
defined. However, by mid- 2004 SIS, MINSA and PARSALUD started working in a
more coordinated fashion. At this time, the sector and MEF became aware of the
relevance of SIS in the increase in the demand for health services, as can be observed in
the indicators, and ensured the adequate allocation of treasury funds. The result was that
the actual allocation was greater than originally planned in the Project design ($164
million versus $218 million).

The Bank allocated about US$825,417 equivalent of loan proceeds to finance: (i) the
administration of the SIS from November 2001 to October 2002; (ii) the provision of
international and national qualified technical assistance to ensure SIS's institutional
arrangements and the issuing of its internal operational regulations; (iii) the training of its
nationally located staff and personnel in its 34 deconcentrated units in the country; (iv)
the acquisition of computers and peripheral equipment for the entire SIS management
information network in the country; (v) improvements in the SIS's supervision schemes;
and (vi) the production of promotional brochures to increase the access of the most
vulnerable eligible population.      PARSALUD also contributed to the design and
implementation of the SIS information system, which allowed SIS to correct the initial
problems faced with the targeting of SIS.

The SMI scheme increased its coverage from 5 DISAs in 2002 to the entire country when
converted into the SIS scheme in 2002. The fact that SIS is now operating in all the
DISAs implies compliance with one of the triggers agreed with the Bank to move to the
second phase of the APL.

The number of affiliates to the SIS scheme in its 5 programs increased from 5.8 million
in 2002 to a little over 11 million in 2005 (89.7 percent increase). The SIS coverage of
the Project's targeted population (program A - children 0-4 years old- and C ­ pregnant
women - of the SIS) increased from 2.55 million in 2002 to about 4.1 million in 2005
(60.8 percent increase). The budget allocated to SIS for its entire 5 programs increased
from US$47.2 million equivalent in 2002 to US$77 million equivalent in 2005 (63.1
percent increase in nominal terms), while for the SIS's programs A and C the increased



                                            32

went from US$4.4 million equivalent in 2000 to US$6.7 million equivalent in 2002 under
the SMI scheme (52.3 percent increase in nominal terms), and then from US$27.6 million
equivalent in 2002 to US$56.6 million equivalent in 2005 under the SIS figure (105.1
percent increase in nominal terms). Given the current macroeconomic conditions of Peru,

The percentage of newborn children covered by the SIS weighted within the first 24
hours of birth in project areas during the 2002-2006 period increased by 15.6 percent
(from 64 to 74 percent), while at the national level the increase in the same period was
13.7 percent (from 73 to 83 percent). This result is still short form the target set at
appraisal of 95 percent by the end of the first phase of the APL.

The number of days elapsing between the submission request to SIS and the actual
receipt of reimbursement by health facility, which is taken as a proxy of SIS's efficiency,
decreased from about 180 days in 2002 to 91 days in 20061. This current delay is still
short of the target set at appraisal of a maximum of 25 days interval, a figure that might
likely result too optimistic against other international benchmarks associated to good
practices.

It is also important to ensure that SIS does not generate perverse effects with respect to
the medical community favoring more expensive, but unnecessary protocols, to increase
the reimbursement amount to their health facilities. An area for reflection for phase 2 of
the APL is to assess the possibility of including in the SIS reimbursement package the
transportation costs from the health facility to the patient's home which currently are
excluded as eligible expenditures.

The Project also financed the development and implementation of an intercultural
strategy including two variants of the Quechua language. PARSALUD selected the
universities of San Antonio Abad in Cusco and Huamanga in Ayacucho to provide an
awareness training program for the staff of 74 health establishments in the project areas
in order to remove the linguistic and cultural barriers in assisting beneficiary population
belonging to these ethnic groups requiring maternal and peri-natal health services. These
intercultural training programs are now being extended to other relevant medical and
nursing schools in the country located in primarily populated ethnic groups.

Components B and C. Strengthening decentralization, policy development and
institutional modernization and improving the quality of health programs and
services.     As a consequence of the strategy modification agreed with the Bank in
November 2003: (i) significant less consideration was provided by the Project to the
decentralization and empowerment of the CLAS envisioned in the original design to
produce and implement regional health plans; and (ii) a more integrated and holistic


1 The number of days elapsing from the submission of the request for reimbursement to SIS until the actual
deposit of funds to the DISA bank account is 34 days. It takes almost two more additional months for the
DISAs to allocate those funds to the corresponding health center. This last portion of the reimbursement
circuit seems to be the bottleneck in need to be further addressed by GP to make the reimbursement process
more efficient.



                                                      33

supply-side intervention of the original components B and C targeted to eight health-
networks (DISAs) was carried out. The revised strategy, emerging from the maternal and
peri-natal death causality model mentioned before, centered its supply-side intervention
along the following three levels of interventions ­ local, regional and national.

At the local level, the Project financed the strengthening of 8 health-networks in the 8
participating DISAs comprised by 59 health facilities with BOF and 20 health facilities
with EOF through civil works, equipment and furniture and training.               The Project
completed 188 works (84 against the Bank loan and 104 against the IDB loan). From the
84 works financed by the Bank, 17 were new constructions of complete maternal and/or
peri-natal health facilities, 40 were new health facility rooms and 27 were rehabilitation
of existing facilities. About 22 out of the 84 Bank-financed works were completed before
the key November 2003 date and the rest afterwards. It is important to distinguish this
time inflection point because, the works completed before November 2003 were carried
out under a decentralized procurement process managed by the DISAs and considered of
a significant lower quality and pertinence than the ones completed afterwards under a
centralized procurement scheme. The increased pertinence of the works undertaken after
November 2003 was underpinned by the causality model, while the increased quality of
the works lies in the pre-feasibility requirements set by the SNIP from 2002 onwards
before approving any civil work investment under the Project.

The 79 health facilities received basic and essential obstetric equipment and furniture
including, inter-alia: (a) equipment for childbirth at the health facility and at the homes of
pregnant women (when, due to distance from the facility and/or cultural values, the
delivery occurs at home under the care of a skilled staff); (b) equipment for maternal and
peri-natal emergencies; (c) laboratory equipment; and (d) equipment for pre-natal and
post-natal visits for pregnant women and their children. Six out of the 20 EOFs included
in the Project received full equipment to undertake their assigned tasks according to the
causality model protocols in use, while the rest of the EOFs received partial equipping.

One weakness detected is the existence of a very fragile and incipient policy in the
DISAs to ensure appropriate and timely corrective and preventive maintenance of these
works and their corresponding equipment. This is an area where the second phase of the
APL should insist vigorously.

The staff assigned to the health facilities in the 8 networks received continuous training
related to the medical protocols regulating the basic and essential obstetric functions to
reduce maternal and peri-natal mortality rates. In addition, staff was recruited to these
health facilities according to competency-based standards set by the above-mentioned
protocols.

At the regional level, the Project financed the provision of technical assistance to
participating DISAs for the: (i) strengthening of the Management Information System for
the Handling of Medical Supplies (Sistema de Gerenciamiento de Medicamentos ­
SISMED) to ensure a three-month supply of basic and essential obstetric functions related
medicines in all the health facilities belonging to the DISA; (ii) strengthening of the



                                             34

DISA's Management and Logistical Information System (Sistema de Información
Gerencial ­ SIGA) to control non-medical related acquisitions, inventories, capital goods
including DISA's managed real estate; (iii) training for DISA's staff; and (iv)
establishment of Regional Performance-based Annual Health Management Agreements
(Acuerdos de Gestión Regional) between the regional authority, the DISAs and MINSA.
The yearly targets set in the performance-based agreements, providing clarity in the roles
and responsibilities between DISAs and MINSA, as well as accountability mechanisms,
are being monitored and updated periodically with the information produced by SIS,
PARSALUD and MINSA. Finally, the Project contributed in the totality of DISAs in the
country (in project and non-project areas) to integrate the mother and child health
programs under their responsibility, which were functioning as vertical and un-
coordinated activities. This achievement is part of another trigger to move into the
second phase of the APL.

At the national level, the Project financed the: (a) issuing of national regulations referred
to the maternal and peri-natal protocols, the functioning of the networks and the profile
standards of health facilities' staff; (b) the provision of technical assistance for the
strengthening of MINSA's Management Information System for the acquisition of
medical supplies; and (c) provision of technical assistance for the strengthening of the
MINSA's Epidemiology Information system where a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has
been established. However, the Project felt short in supporting MINSA to implement an
integral health approach (transversal services according to risk groups ­ children,
youngsters, pregnant women and adults) by diminishing the fragmentation of the
different vertical services currently administered by the various Directorates within the
Health Ministry and functioning in an uncoupled fashion.

With the change of strategy in November 2003, the Project disengaged its control over
the process to achieve one of the agreed triggers to start the second phase of the APL,
namely the one refereed to the percentage of health posts and health centers administered
by the CLAS (the target set at 30 to 33 percent). This trigger was met under the PSRL III
benchmark.

After a lengthy delay in entering an agreement with INEI, the Project was instrumental in
2002 in having ENAHO include in its annual survey relevant information concerning
maternal and peri-natal health. PARSALUD was also influential in having the health
demographic survey (ENDES) be carried out on an annual basis instead of every five
years. ENDES was not financed by PARSALUD, rather receiving significant support
from the United States Agency for International Development. For reasons beyond the
control of PARSALUD, DFID ended up not financing the annual community surveys
included in the original design of Component B.

The total amount disbursed by the loan on these two components amounted to US$22.286
million equivalent.




                                             35

Component D. Project Coordination.

The ICR highlights the PCU's role in ensuring: (i) the functioning of a monitoring and
evaluation unit capable of updating the Project's five relevant indicators mentioned-
before on a quarterly basis in each one of the 8 participating DISAs; and (b) compliance
of the Project's physical and financial execution with respect to the implementation
scheduled agreed for the 2004-2005 period at the time of the first extension to the closing
date. Accordingly, and despite the unsatisfactory performance of the PCU prior to
November 2003, this Component is considered satisfactory.

The total amount disbursed by the loan on this component amounted to US$2.25 million
equivalent.




                                            36

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The Health Reform Project showed significant gains in effectiveness, efficiency and
equity of public spending on health during the Project. The results described below show
important gains in: (a) better use of public resources through programs which have pro-
poor expenditures; (b) significant increase in the number of beneficiaries of these
programs; (c) considerable improvements in institutional birth coverage and reduction in
infant mortality rates; (d) low fiscal impacts in comparison to the national budget
allocated to the public health sector.

Impact of SIS on beneficiary population.

Coverage of SIS (Integrated Insurance System ­ "Seguro Integral de Salud"), with
respect to the plans C and A (pregnant women and children less than five years of age),
has increased significantly (See Table A3-1 and Figure A3-1). While the figures in the
PAD were considered somewhat ambitious, the targets were surpassed and sustained over
time, with full financing by treasury funds.

                   Table A3-1. Beneficiary Population of the SMI/SIS
                                  2000-2005 (Thousands)

                               Appraisal Estimates        Actual/Latest
                                                           Estimates
                                           Children               Children
                       Year                  Less                   Less
                                            Than 5                 Than 5
                               Pregnant    Years of  Pregnant     Years of
                                Women         Age     Women         Age
                       2000       148         445
                       2001       281         760
                       2002       446        1,140       545        2014
                       2003       503        1,254       726       2,496
                       2004                              656       3,069
                       2005                              649       3,444
                      Source: Project Appraisal Document and SIS central
                      database




                                                37

                                  Figure A3-1 Beneficiary population of SMI/SIS (2000-2005)


                               4,500,000

                               4,000,000

         notialup              3,500,000

                               3,000,000

                 po            2,500,000
                   yra         2,000,000
                      cifieneB 1,500,000

                               1,000,000

                                 500,000

                                       0
                                          2000        2001         2002        2003          2004        2005 Year

                                              Appraisal Estimates (P.women and children less than 5)

                                              Trend

                                              Actual/Latest Estimates (P.women and children less than 5)


    Source: Project Appraisal Document and SIS central database.



SIS had a significant impact not only in coverage but in improving the efficiency of
existing health sector resources by increasing utilization of public facilities nationwide.
While public facilities were financed in eight regions of the country to improve the
supply and quality of health services through investment support, there was no significant
expansion in human resources. Thus, the elimination of the economic barrier, through
SIS, resulted in an increase in service utilization.

The Project also contributed to gains in efficiency and progress towards equity through
the better allocation of the SIS resources. SIS was designed to cover the poorest areas of
the country, rural and urban marginal zones. The intervention of the Project, with support
of the policy dialogue through the PSRL, helped to increase the targeting of SIS and the
resulting increase in public resources directed to the provision of essential health services
to the poor. In the case of institutional deliveries, the percentage of women in the first
quintiles went from 44 percent to 56 percent (see Figure A3-2). Furthermore, in the
Project Area, the targeting to the poorest quintile for Plan C improved significantly, as
shown in Figure A3-3. Finally, 60% of women who benefited from SIS live in rural areas
(where the incidence of maternal mortality is highest)1. Coverage in the rural area is
around 85%, significantly larger than the coverage in the urban area (see Figure A3-4).



1Source: PARSALUD I final evaluation



                                                                      38

Figure A3-2 Percentage of deliveries financed by SIS in the first two quintiles of
                         population in the Project area




        100%
         90%
         80%
         70%
                                                               Rest of population
         60%
         50%                                                   First tw o quintiles

         40%
         30%                             56
                       44
         20%
         10%
           0%                                        Year
                     2002              2006



    Source: PIU PARSALUD I

Figure A3-3 Beneficiary population of Plan C (pregnant women) by quintile of
                          poverty in the Project Area




                                                        Quintile 1




                                                                      Quintile 5




                2002             2003                2004                 2005




     Source: SIS




                                       39

  Figure A3-4 Percentage of coverage by the Plan C (pregnant women) nationwide


                    100%
                    95%                              SMI              SIS
                    90%
                    85%
                    80%
                    75%
                    70%
                    65%
                    60%
                    55%
                    50%
                    45%
                    40%
                    35%
                    30%
                    25%
                                                Rural
                    20%
                    15%
                    10%
                                                         Urban
                     5%
                     0%

                         1995 1996  1997 1998  1999   2000   2001 2002  2003    2004


     Source: ENDES

At the national level, the targeting of SIS has improved significantly. As shown in Figure
A3-5 significant progress in reducing the population of poor women not covered by Plan
C (pregnant women) from 85%, at the beginning of the SMI/SIS program, to 29% by the
end of 2005. In addition, there has been a significant reduction in the filtration of SIS
resources to the non poor, from 13% in 2000 to 6% in 2005. This reduction represents
savings of around a US$ 25 million for the year 2005 only.

                        Figure A3-5 Beneficiary Population of the SIS ­ Plan C



                               85
                      90

                      80

                      70
          eg          60                                             Non beneficiary poor
                                                                     population
            tanecr    50
                                                                     Coverage of non poor
                      40                        29                   population
                  Pe  30
                                    13
                      20                                6
                      10

                       0                                         Year
                              2000            2004-2005



     Source: Final document of the PARSALUD I evaluation



                                                 40

Overall Project impact.

In order to assess effectiveness and impact of the Project as a whole, it is convenient to
look at the improvement of the development indicators in the Project areas as compared
to the rest of the nation . Project areas showed a steeper increase in institutional
                                2

deliveries as compared to the overall national trend. For example, while the percentage of
deliveries attended by a skilled professional in 2006 improved 30 percent nationwide as
compared to 2000, the change in the Project area reached 84 percent, that is 2.8 times
more (see Results Framework). As shown in Figure A3-4, it is possible to attribute the
increase in the indicator to the Project intervention, otherwise, if the Project areas had
maintained the national growth rate, it is probable that this indicator would not have
improved as much (Figure A3-6). Finally, the impact observed in the infant mortality
rate is remarkable. Again, the changes in the intervention area were greater than the
national average, 41 percent and 32 percent, respectively (1.3 times). In this case, if this
indicator had kept the national rhythm of growth in the project area, it would have
achieved smaller reductions in the indicator (Figure A3-7).

    Figure A3-6 Percentage of deliveries attended by a skilled health professional


               60


               50



     ega       40

                                                                                    Project area
        ent    30
           rc                                                                       National trend
             Pe
               20


               10


                0
                  2000  2001   2002    2003     2004     2005       2006

                                       Year


 Source: PIU PARSALUD I




2It was not possible to compare Regions subject to the Project interventions with similar Regions that were
not covered by the Project due to difficulties in finding appropriate matches. Therefore, the analysis
compares Project area versus national data. This will tend to underestimate the Project impact as national
data include the Project area (which has shown significant increases) and Lima, which is well covered by
health services.




                                                   41

        Figure A3-7 Number of deaths before 12 months per 1,000 living births

                             60

                             55


               hs            50


                 deatfo      45
                                                                                                                                                Project area
                             40
                       er                                                                                                                       National trend

                         mb  35
                           Nu30

                             25

                             20
                                   2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006

                                                                         Year



          Source: PIU PARSALUD I

The results also display improvements in terms of poverty incidence in the Project Area.
As it shows in the Figure A3-8, there has been a sustainable increase in the number of
deliveries attended by a skilled health professional in the poorest quintile since the
beginning of 2004. During 2005, the achieved results in this population group were
greater than the results for the richest quintile, an important change with respect to 2003.
The original gaps represented inequalities mainly produced by the economic barriers to
utilization of health services for the poor population groups.

      Figure A3-8 Number of deliveries attended by a skilled health professional
                                                 in the Project Area by quintile of poverty


              1600              quintil
                                       Q1
              1400                     Q2
                                       Q5
              1200


              1000


               800
                                                                                                                                                            A smaller
               600                                                                                                                                             gap


               400


               200


                             0                   2002                             2003                                    2004                              2005

                                202 203 204 2 2 20 20 20 20 20 20 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 3100 3110 312 401 402 403 404 405 406 40 40 40 40 40 40 50 50 50 50 50 50
                                               50 60 70 80 90 01 11 21 10  02 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                                                                               3 4 5 6 7 8 9                                         70 80 90 01 11 21 10 20 30 40 50 60

                                200 200 200 200 200 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
                             Source: SIS



                                                                                             42

There are similar achievements in the rural areas. The increase in the coverage of
deliveries attended by skilled professionals has been 25% larger than the observed
increase in the urban areas since 1998 (see Figure A3-9).

    Figure A3-9 Coverage of deliveries attended by a skilled health professional
                                         nationwide


               100%
                95%                            SMI              SIS

                90%
                85%
                80%                   20
                75%
                70%
                65%
                60%
                55%
                50%
                45%      Urban area

                40%
                35%
                30%                  25

                25%
                20%
                15%
                10%
                            Rural area
                 5%
                 0%

                    1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004

               Source: PIU PARSALUD I

There were also differences within the rural areas (see Figure A3-10). The trends describe
a faster growth of this indicator in the Project Area (the poorest regions). While the
coverage in the non project area was greater, the gap was significantly reduced towards
the end of 2004.




                                             43

    Figure A3-10 Coverage of deliveries attended by a skilled health professional
                                                in Rural Area

                  50%                                    SMI                SIS
                  45%


                  40%


                  35%


                  30%


                  25%


                  20%   Non project area


                  15%


                  10%
                                    Project area
                   5%


                   0%

                        1995   1996     1997    1998 1999 2000  2001  2002   2003   2004


                  Source: PIU PARSALUD I

It is possible estimate the economic benefits using the figures on infant mortality.
Forecasting the situation with and without the Project, with the Project there are 42,883
additional births attended by a skilled professional and, because of the smaller infant
mortality rates, about 4,318 infant deaths avoided from an overall of 568,502 births
between 2001 and 20043, which represents 23 percent of the total births. In sum, there
were effectiveness gains in the project. As a result, the project has a net present value of
almost US$ 358,000 .      4



Table A3-2 shows an estimate of the fiscal impact of the project in terms of its annual
costs and budget of the Public Health Insurance SIS for the Plans A and C over the period
2000-2005. The table also compares these expenditures with the MINSA's budget and
total expenditures in health services provided by the regional governments. It can be


3 We have considered the period between 2000 and 2004 because the calculations used the ENDES data to
determine some of their assumptions
4The assumptions taken were: 1) In order to value a healthy life, it was used the GDP per capita in 2004,
which is US$ 2848. 2) The situation without the project was projected between 2001 and 2004 with a linear
regression. 3) The situation with the project between 2001 and 2004 was a linear projection with the current
values of ENDES 2000 and 2004. 3) Since we have the trend of the expenditures between 2002 and 2004
from the PIU-PARSALUD, the umber of deaths avoided for 2001 was evenly distributed using the
evolution of the expenditures.




                                                      44

          seen that the project represented, on average, only about 0.2 percent of the public health
          expenditures and about 4.8 percent of the SIS Plans A and C.

                                  Table A3- 2 Fiscal Impact of the Project


                                        2000           2001           2002           2003           2004           2005

Project Cost1/                                                      4,124,999      4,345,563      7,362,362     15,125,501

SIS Plan A and C  2/                 15,500,754     23,468,892     97,215,044    142,092,624    205,113,277    184,688,158

Public Health Expenditure (PHE) 3/  2,643,584,510  2,994,356,220  3,196,841,544  3,260,168,856  3,774,526,750  3,982,882,688


% Project Cost / PHE                                                 0.13%          0.13%          0.20%          0.38%

% Project Cost / SIS Plan A and C                                    4.20%          3.10%          3.60%          8.20%

Source:

1/ PIU PARSALUD I

2/ SIS

3/ SIAF-MEF


          Sustainability of the supply component of the Project includes the maintenance of the
          infrastructure and equipment. A very low fiscal impact would be expected, given the low
          percentage cost of the Project with respect to the health sector budget, which shows a
          historically positive trend.




                                                               45

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                    Title                   Unit            Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Patricia M. Bernedo     Senior Program Assistant  LCSHH
Jose Pablo Gomez-Meza Sr Economist (Health)       LCSHH

Pablo Augusto Lavado    Junior Professional
                        Associate                 LCSHS-DPT

Luisa Maria Yesquen
Solari                  Program Assistant         LCSHH


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.    Date ISR Archived         DO                IP             Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1    06/27/2000              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     0.00
2    11/30/2000              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     0.00
3    05/19/2001              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     0.00
4    06/28/2001              Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                                   0.00
5    12/19/2001              Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                                   0.27
6    06/03/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     2.53
7    12/10/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     3.30
8    12/11/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     3.30
9    06/10/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     5.29
10 06/11/2003                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     5.29
11 12/05/2003                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                     7.32
12 06/14/2004                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   10.02
13 11/29/2004                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   12.12
14 04/26/2005                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   18.10
15 07/01/2005                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   21.38
16 03/28/2006                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   27.00


c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands
                                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                              consultant costs)

Lending
                      FY99                                                                 106.25
                      FY00                                             32                  124.81
                      FY01                                                                    1.38
                      FY02                                                                    0.46




                                                46

                 FY03                      0.00
                 FY04                      0.00
                 FY05                      0.00
                 FY06                      0.00
                 FY07                      0.00
                         Total:    32     232.90

Supervision/ICR
                 FY99                      0.00
                 FY00                      0.00
                 FY01               4      18.83
                 FY02              14      69.46
                 FY03              56     102.11
                 FY04              40      71.87
                 FY05              32      81.25
                 FY06              21      58.60
                 FY07               7      36.28
                         Total:    174    438.40




                             47

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

NA




                                    48

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                     49

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    50

51

52

53

54

55

[Unofficial translation]

Ministry of Health
Minister's Office
                                                    "Decade of the People with Disabilities in Peru"
                                                                       "Year of the Citizen's Duty"

Letter No. 696-2007-DM/MINSA

Lima, March 27, 2007

Mr. John L. Newman
Resident Representative
World Bank Office in Peru


Subject                                       : Health Sector Reform Program
                                                 PARSALUD Loan 4527-PE

Reference                                     : Letter NN dated 03/07/07
                                                (File. No. 07-022583-001)

Dear Sir:

The purpose of this letter is to greet you cordially and to submit to your Office Reports Numbers
No. 061-2007-PGH/DVM/MINSA, from the Advisor to the Vice Minister's Office and No. 003-
2007-OGPP/MINSA from the General Office of Planning and Budget with the analyses and
conclusions on the draft Closing Report (ICR) of the Health Reform Project I (PARSALUD); as
requested in the subject and document of reference.

I take this opportunity to express my regards and consideration.

Sincerely,


[signed]
Carlos Vallejos Sologuren
Minister of Health




                                                  56

Ministry of Health
People who serve people
                                    Report No. 061-2007-PGH-DVM/MINSA

To:                       Dr. Jose Gilmer Calderón Yberico
                          Vice Minister of Health

Subject:                  Report from the World Bank on closing of the Health Sector Reform
                          Program PARSALUD

Date:                     Lima, March 20, 2007
_____________________________________________________________________

I am pleased to inform you that the World Bank has submitted, for its review, the draft closing
report for the Health Sector Reform Program PARSALUD.

The document summarizes the evolution of the project, since its initial preparation, and its
refocusing during the year 2003, at which time the project development objective was reviewed.
In addition, the document analyzes the implementation of the project, the difficulties and delays
during the initial years and the notable improvement in implementation during the later years.

It describes and qualifies the results of the project, the risk to sustainability of the achieved results
and performance, both for the Bank and the borrower, in this case MINSA. All these parameter
have been qualified as satisfactory in the evaluation.

Subsequently, it describes the lessons learned, emphasizing the importance in the use of causal
models based on evidences, the need for political stability, the intercultural strategies and
community participation, as well as issues linked to administrative implementation.

The annexes summarize project development indicators, the majority of which have been
achieved or even surpassed the initially set goals.

It also analyzes the overall impact indicators of the project, such as the percentage of deliveries
attended in health services, with respect to poverty quintiles and in rural areas, as well as deaths
in children below one year old, comparing the results in the project area with the national average
results, showing better results in the project area. With respect to this point, it should be noted
that in the project area there have been also other projects, of smaller scope, focused on maternal
and child health which, must have also contributed to the achievements described.

Sincerely,
[signed]
Dr. Paulina Giusti Hudskopf
Advisor to the Vice Minister's Office




                                                  57

Ministry of Health
People who serve people
                                   Report No. 003-2007-OGPP/MINSA

To:                       Jose Gilmer Calderón Yberico
                          Vice Minister of Health

Subject:                  Closing report for PARSALUD from the World Bank

Reference:                Letter NN (07-022583-001)

Date:                     March 23, 2007



BACKGROUND

Through the above mentioned document, the Resident Representative of the World Bank Office
requested the comments from the Ministry of Health with respect to the draft closing report to be
taken into consideration in the Final Report.

ANALYSIS

The review and analysis of the report shows that it provides, in macro and executive form, the
evaluation of PARSALUD; it describes and qualifies the results of the project, as well as the
performance of the Government and the Bank, and also indicates the lessons learned and
recommendations.

CONCLUSIONS

The report is coherent and we agree with it, with the exception of the results evaluation, since it is
not possible to attribute the improvement in the indicators specified in said executive report to the
exclusive action of PARSALUD, for the following reasons:

    · There was no baseline prior to the intervention.
    · There have been interventions of other cooperating agencies in the project area,
         implementing similar actions.
    · Measurement of results and impact requires of greater maturing time for the project in
         order to visualize whether the increase in coverage of maternal-child health services is
         due to the demographic growth (if the same trend stays) or is due to the program's
         intervention.

In this context, I submit, attached to this document, for your consideration, the draft letter to the
Representative to the World Bank to be signed by the Minister of Health.

Sincerely,
[signed]
Econ. Elena Mercedes Tanaka Torres
Director General
General Office of Planning and Budget
Ministry of Health



                                                 58

Ministry of Health
Health Sector Reform Program
PARSALUD
Av. Javier Prado Oeste 1381, San Isidro
Phone 4404101
Fax 4404101 Extension 201

Lima, 22 March 2007

Letter No. 00421-2007-PARSALUD/CG

Dr. Jose Gilmer Calderón Yberico
Vice Minister of Health
Ministry of Health


                         Subject:          Closing Report (ICR) of PARSALUD I
                         Reference:        Letter NN from the Representation of the World Bank,
                                           dated 03.07.07

I submit to you the summary of the draft Implementation Completion and Results Report of
PARSALUD I, prepared by the World Bank, together with the comments to the document for
your knowledge and subsequent purposes.

It should be noted that this letter is submitted in response to the document sent by the
Representation of the World Bank to the Minister's Office.

I take this opportunity to express my regards and consideration.

Sincerely,


[signed]
MBA Pilar Prieto Chira
General Coordinator
Health Sector Reform Program




                                                   59

COMMENTS TO THE DOCUMENT

1. The review shows that the overall performance of PARSALUD, together with the Ministry of
Health is rated as satisfactory.

2. A crucial element for the achievement of this performance level has been that, subsequent to
the definition of a causal framework supported on information from the source and evidences,
PARSALUD interventions were focused on addressing maternal and neonatal mortality. This
strategy allowed for the coordination between the interventions and the initiatives promoted by
PARSALUD at the central level ­ MINSA with Regional Health Directorates management,
resulting in clear and shared priorities.

3. Emphasis should be put on the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system (M&E)
of products and results of the health interventions, at the central, regional (Regional Health
Directorates) and local (networks, micro networks, health facilities, communities) levels.
Monitoring information becomes a powerful instrument for management, guiding, correcting or,
eventually, changing the intervention strategies and the activities themselves. This system uses
available information from SIS, SISMED [Sistema de Seguimiento de Medicamentos-
Pharmaceutical Monitoring System], HIS [Health Information System] databases, and can include
others such as SIAF [Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera ­ Integrated Financial
Administration System], SIGA [Sistema Integrado de Gestión Administrativa ­ Integrated
Administrative Management System], SEACE [Sistema Electróncio de Adquisiciones y
Contrataciones del Estado ­ Government Electronic Procurement and Contracting System],
establishing a new paradigm: the analysis of multidimensional information use for health
management. It is important to note that PARSALUD did not need to implement new databases
nor parallel information systems, but, on the contrary, has contributed to the significant use of
existing databases in various information systems, under the logic of a Management Information
System oriented towards health results, for decision making at all levels.

4. The type of technical assistance strategy provided at the regional and local levels needs to be
described more extensively in the documents. The causal framework and the monitoring and
evaluation system became feasible through the organization of a structure for the effective
development of the program at the regional level: the health management local teams1, which
allowed the effective use of PARSALUD resources as a function of the regional and local health
needs, aligned in turn to the committed results. In this respect, the local teams in each region of
the project, played a strategic role, analyzing the available M&E information, agreeing with local
and regional stakeholders the activities to be carried out, providing technical assistance to the
DIRESA, Regional Governments, health networks and micro networks, monitoring activities
including the EONF and BONF facilities, identifying possible distortion in the decisions, even at
the national level2.


1These teams were coordinated by a public health specialist with experience in health
management, and were integrated by investment, intercultural specialists, among others,
based on the regional needs, and linked to the PARSALUD logical framework.

2An example of this was the implementation of the Socio Economic Evaluation Form
[Ficha de Evaluación Socio Económica (FESE)] by SIS at the beginning of 2004 which
affected the access of the rural poor to the insurance strategy. This was corrected as a


                                                  60

This strategy is effective, as the teams integrate and adapt interventions in the field, achieving
more effectiveness. As an example, the monitoring of affiliation to the SIS in rural areas, the
promotion activities with intercultural focus, the use of the FESE in urban areas, the assistance in
the management of EONF and BONF services, the orientation of the training internships as a
function of the needs of the obstetric network, among others. All this has been described in
regional operation and investment plans, which were linked, where possible, to health results,
within a network framework, targeting the allocation of regional resources and capacities to
address maternal mortality.

5. The health management regional teams have experienced a powerful monitoring system that
has been transferred to the networks, through training, providing the various management and
operation levels at the health facility with information and performance evidence, making thus
possible to improve the decision making process.

6. Even though efforts were made to disseminate this model at the central level (through the
Epidemiology General Directorate and the Statistics and Informatics General Office in MINSA,
as well as DIGEMID [Dirección General de Medicamentos Insumos y Drogas, Pharmaceuticals,
Medical Inputs and Drugs General Directorate]), the M&E approach has not been as extensively
used as in the DIRESA, networks and micro networks. It is probable that MINSA is not as aware
of its usefulness for improvement in the quality of decisions and its importance as a management
instrument. This is due to the fact that at the central level they do not face the regular day to day
problems in management and service provision. These demands usually forces local managers to
optimize the available scarce resources, requiring periodic information at the local and regional
level, allowing effective and efficient management of their health facilities and services.

7. With respect to the protocols on Obstetric and Neonatal Functions during the post closure
phase of PARSALUD, this process has been the result of a joint effort between MINSA, the
networks and the DIRESA, allowing for the validation and implementation in facilities through
the PARSALUD activities.

Additionally, the adoption by MINSA of the causal model used by PARSALUD to address the
maternal and peri-natal mortality, still requires greater efforts to integrate it to the decision
making level and in the management of health processes, beyond health network and services.

8. With respect to the efficiency of the project (p.9), the document states that the
improvement is due to the increased utilization of services, which in turn is due to the
reduction in the economic barrier to access to services, resulting from the implementation
of SIS. In addition to this, the favorable impact is showed in the increase in demand from
new strategies such as the Juntos Program, which promote access to public services in the
poorest areas of the country and which also share some of the project areas with
PARSALUD.


result of the analysis of the SIS database, leading to a demand from the project area
Regions to the central level of SIS, which was arguing that the information in FESE was
necessary.




                                                  61

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

[Unofficial Translation]

                                                                             No. 1246/2007
Lima, 20 March 2007

Mister
John L. Newman
Representative
World Bank Office in Peru
Av. Alvarez Calderon 185, Piso 7
San Isidro
Fax: 421-7241
Present.-

Ref: 1208/OC-PE. Development Program for the Health Sector. Draft closing report of
PARSALUD I Project.

Dear Sir:

I refer to your Letter received on March 12, attaching the draft version of the Closing
Report (ICR) of the reference Project.

We are grateful for the submission of the document, for which we do not have any major
comments.

We take this opportunity to greet you.

                                        Sincerely,

                                         [signed]
                                   Ian W. Mac Arthur
                                    Sector Specialist




                                            62

63

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Peru Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board July 22, 1997 (Report 97-161).
Pre-identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
      World Bank. June 3, 1998.
Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. July 20, 1998.
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. November 2, 1998.
Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The
      World Bank. July 7, 1999.
Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
      Bank. September 20, 1999.
Project Concept Document (PCN), The World Bank, November 30, 1998.
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No 19901-PE. The World Bank, November 22, 1999.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. November 2, 1999.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 4527-PE. The World Bank. Conformed copy April 3, 2001.
Amendments to the Loan Agreements. Partial cancellation to the loan approved on November 27,
      2000. First amendment approved on April 30, 2004. Second amendment approved on May
      13, 2004.    First extension to the closing date approved on November 2003. Second
      extension of the closing date approved on September 22, 2005.
Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters,
      Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) of all the
      Supervision Missions from June 27, 2000 to March 28, 2006.

Bank and Borrower other project implementation-related documents

Project Implementation Plan (2003 ­ 2005)
Quarterly FMRs
Annual FM audits
External Procurement Audit
Ex-post Procurement Audits
Annual Project Process Reports (2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006)
PARSALUD Final Evaluation (November, 2006).
Operations Manual




                                              64

