Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER  4527-PE
Loan Agreement
Health Reform Program
  (First Phase:  Mother and Child Insurance 
and Decentralization of Health Services)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 3, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4527-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 2001 between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) he Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has delivered to the Bank a letter, dated November 1, 1999, 
describing the Borrower’s health reform program to be carried out in the period of 2000 to 2010 
(the Health Reform Program), of which the Project constitutes the first phase;
(C)
pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 448-99-SA of 1999, the Borrower has 
established the Mother-child Insurance Unit (
Unidad del Seguro Materno Infantil
)
–
SMI Unit 
within MINSA; 
(D)
pursuant to Law No. 26842 of 1997 (
Ley General de Salud
), the Borrower has 
established a regulatory and normative framework for the Borrower’s health sector, including 
recognition of user’s rights;
(E)
pursuant to Law No. 26790 of 1997 (
Ley de Modernización de Seguridad Social)
,
the Borrower has allowed competition in health service delivery, and created a Superintendence 
of Health Providers (
Superintendencia de
 
Entidades Prestadoras de Salud)
,
responsible for 
regulating health care providers; and
(F)
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan 
to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(a)
Paragraph (d) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions is added to read as 
follows:
“(d)
If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have the right to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under the Loan 
Agreement as the Bank shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(b)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
Page  3
follows:
“(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of said Section to 
read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CLAS” means Local Committees of Health Administration 
(Comités Locales de 
Administración de Salud),
 non-profit entities which by virtue of a contract with DISAs (as 
hereinafter defined) receive and administer public funds to provide health services;
(b)
“DISA” means the Borrower’s regional health departments (
Direcciones de 
Salud
);
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Health Facilities” means the health facilities that meet the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manuals;
(f)
“ENAHO Survey” means the quarterly household surveys referred to in Part B.4 
of the Project;
(g)
“Health Investment Subprojects” means a specific subproject which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operation Manuals (as hereinafter defined) and consists of, inter alia: (i) 
integrated health interventions to support the SMI Program (as hereinafter defined); (ii) health 
education; (iii) water and sanitation services; and (iv) requirements for diagnosis and testing of 
Page  4
communicable diseases;
(h)
“INEI” means the Borrower’s National Institute of Statistics and Informatics (
Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática)
;
(i)
“MINSA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health (
Ministerio de Salud
);
(j)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring the implementation 
of the Project set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith; 
(k)
“Operational Manuals” means a set of manuals, referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement, including: (i) the Project general operational manual; (ii) the SMI Unit 
administrative manual, and (iii) the Health Investment Subprojects operation manual; 
(l)
“Project Area”, means the Borrower’s Departments of Puno, Apurímac, 
Cajamarca, Cuzco, Lambayeque, Piura, Tumbes, La Libertad, Madre de Dios, Lima Norte and 
Lima Sur, and any other area, acceptable to the Bank, that may be selected by the Borrower;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“SMI Program” means Mother-Child Insurance Program (
Seguro Materno 
Infantil
), the Borrower’s mechanism of reimbursement of health services rendered by Eligible 
Health Facilities, including medicines and required laboratory exams;
(o)
“SMI Unit” means the special unit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule
 
1
to this 
Agreement; and
(q) 
“UCP” means the Project coordination unit 
(Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto
)
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-seven million Dollars 
($27,000,000).
Page  5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interBank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interBank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
Page  6
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower’s Minister of Health, and any person or persons whom he or 
she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MINSA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health care, 
managerial, administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Small goods and sundry items for the SMI Program: (a) to be used by non-public 
service providers shall be procured in accordance with established private sector practices; and 
(b) to be used by public service providers shall be procured, as far as practicable, from qualified 
suppliers either in bulk or through regional or local procurement procedures, in accordance with 
Page  7
the SMI Regulations.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank on a quarterly basis, an audit report 
covering specific aspects of the procurement and execution of contracts financed under the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at determining 
whether the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph (a) of this Section have been fully 
complied with.
Section 3.03 Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
establish and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, 
within MINSA, a coordination unit for the overall supervision and 
monitoring of the Project, with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
ensure that the UCP is:  (A) headed, at all times during the execution of 
the Project, by a full time general coordinator, an 
administrative-financial coordinator and a technical coordinator, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and (B) further 
staffed by key personnel, with functions, responsibilities, qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
(i)
maintain during the execution of the Project, a special Unit, for the 
coordination and supervision of the implementation of the SMI Program, 
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
ensure that the SMI Unit: (A) is headed, at all times during the execution 
of the Project, by a full-time Director, with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank; (B) has autonomy and capacity to carry out the 
SMI Program; and (C) has a service structure comprising a central office 
in Lima and a network of paying and auditing offices throughout the 
Borrower’s territory; and
(c)
not later than one month after the Effective Date, establish a task force with 
membership structure and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the 
streamlining of the mother and child programs of MINSA.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with operational manuals satisfactory to the Bank, said manuals to include, 
inter alia:
(a)
the criteria and procedures for the preparation, review, approval and 
Page  8
implementation of Health Investment Subprojects;
(b)
detailed procurement and contracting procedures consistent with the principles 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be applicable to the contracts for the goods, works, and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, comprising 
environmental criteria and screening procedures satisfactory to the Bank for inclusion in the 
appropriate bidding documents;  
(c)
terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the UCP 
and the SMI Unit responsible for Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation at the central 
and local level; and
(d)
the procedures of the financing mechanism for Health Investment Subprojects.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than September 30, of each year until completion of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual operating plan for the implementation of the 
Project during the following calendar year, such plan to comprise: (i) the main activities to be 
carried out under the Project during the respective year; (ii) the corresponding cost estimates and 
budgets, including the procurement plans and counterpart fund allocations; and (iii) the proposed 
revisions to the Monitoring Indicators, if applicable; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about each January 31, during the implementation of the Project, starting January 31, 
2002 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by March 31 of each year, starting March 31, 2002, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Page  9
Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower, through MINSA, shall: 
(i)
enter into implementation agreements with participating DISAs and 
CLASs for the purposes of carrying out Parts 1.A and 1.C of the Project, 
and
(ii)
no later than one month after the Effective Date, sign an agreement with 
INEI for the purposes of carrying out the Project surveys described in 
Part B. 4 (a) of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise  its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Implementation Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through MINSA shall carry out independent medical audits, 
in order to monitor and evaluate the reimbursement applications submitted by Eligible Health 
Facilities, aimed at determining whether the obligations of said facilities under the SMI 
Regulations have been fully complied with.
Section 3.09.  Prior to the initiation of any civil work for a Health Investment Subproject, 
the Borrower, through the UCP, shall carry out a detailed environmental assessment and employ 
to that effect environmental specialists with experience and qualifications acceptable to the 
Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in order to: (a) identify potential 
environmental impacts; and (b) propose any required remedial measure, after a thorough analysis 
of the trade-off between different options.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
Page  10
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, 
Page  11
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Bank each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for that period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, Ministerial Resolution No. 448-99-SA or Law No. 26842 of 1997 
or Law No. 26790 of 1997 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to carry out the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  12
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manuals shall have been adopted by MINSA; 
(b)
that the Borrower shall have retained the services of the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and
(c)
that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank, an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the strengthening of SMI’s accounting and internal control systems.
Section 6.02. The date July 3, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Perú
Facsimile:
(511) 4268500 or (511) 4262613
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  13
Cable address:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Lima, Peru 
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
/s/ Javier Silva Ruete
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Isabel Guerrero
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
By /s/ Eduardo Pretell Zarate
Honorary Witness
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
% of
Page  14
                           Loan Allocated                    Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
7,000,000
85%
(2)
Goods
10,730,000
100% Foreign 
Expenditures, 85% 
Local Expenditures
(3)
Consultant’s Services 
and Training
6,000,000
100%
(4)
SMI Program
             0
(5)
Project Administration
1,000,000
85% 
(6)
Front-end fee
270,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   2,000,000
TOTAL
27,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms:
(a)
“Foreign Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower, for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
“Local Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
 “Project Administration” means expenditures for the operation of the UCP, 
including rental of office space, office supplies, services of public utilities and travel expenses; 
and
(d)
“Training” means expenditures for information, education and communications, 
project evaluation, dissemination workshops and seminars, capacity building assistance and 
study tours.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
Page  15
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 3, 2000;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Health Investment Subprojects unless: (i) 
the respective implementation agreement between MINSA and each DISA has been entered into; 
and (ii) in the case of Health Investment Subprojects under the responsibility of a DISA, such 
DISA has submitted an annual operating plan based on that DISAs regional health plan; and 
(c)
payments under Part B.4 of the Project unless an agreement between MINSA 
and INEI, satisfactory to the Bank, has been entered into for the implementation of such Part of 
the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each, other than the 
contracts set forth in Part D.2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, other than the 
contracts set forth in Part D.2 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $80,000 equivalent 
each; and 
(d)
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
Page  16
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
Page  17
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
Page  18
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are the improvement of maternal and child health in the 
territory of the Borrower, in particular through the reduction of  peri-natal, infant child morbidity 
and mortality, and the reduction of mortality as a result of communicable diseases and 
inadequate environmental conditions, specially among the poor. 
Page  19
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Borrower’s Health Reform Program, 
consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Strengthening Health Demand
Implementation of the SMI Program to benefit low income mothers and children, 
through:
1.
reimbursements for eligible medical services provided by Eligible Health Facilities in the 
Project Area; 
2.
 establishment and operation of the SMI Unit and its regional offices; and
3.
provision of technical assistance for the monitoring and evaluation of the SMI Program 
implementation activities.
Part B
: Strengthening Decentralization, Policy Development and Institutional Modernization
:
1. 
Decentralization of the Borrower’s health system, through the provision of the required 
technical assistance and training for the establishment and strengthening of CLASs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to DISAs and municipalities to improve 
their ability to manage the delivery of preventive, promotional and curative health services 
within their respective  jurisdictions.
3.
Provision of  technical assistance for the redefinition of the role of MINSA in the areas 
of: (a) formulation of health norms and supervision of their implementation by public and private 
health providers; (b) ensuring equitable access to health services by low income population; (c) 
strengthening mother, child and environmental health programs; and (d) promoting and 
maintaining public health.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to MINSA for: (a) conducting two types of household 
surveys: (i) a health and demographic survey to produce estimates on health outcomes (including 
infant and maternal mortality); and (ii) annual community health surveys, to serve as a basis for 
identifying local health needs; and (b) establishing a yearly module to the ENAHO Survey, in 
order to measure the coverage of key interventions.
Part C
:Improving the Quality of Health Programs and Services - Investment Support for 
Regional and Local Health Plans
Financing  of Health Investment Subprojects. 
Page  20
Part D
: Project Coordination
Establishment and operation of  the UCP.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
July 15, 2005
1,125,000
January 15, 2006
1,125,000
July 15, 2006
1,125,000
January 15, 2007
1,125,000
July 15, 2007
1,125,000
January 15, 2008
1,125,000
July 15, 2008
1,125,000
January 15, 2009
1,125,000
July 15, 2009
1,125,000
January 15, 2010
1,125,000
July 15, 2010
1,125,000
January 15, 2011
1,125,000
July 15, 2011
1,125,000
January 15, 2012
1,125,000
July 15, 2012
1,125,000
January 15, 2013
1,125,000
July 15, 2013
1,125,000
January 15, 2014
1,125,000
July 15, 2014
1,125,000
January 15, 2015
1,125,000
July 15, 2015
1,125,000
January 15, 2016
1,125,000
July 15, 2016
1,125,000
January 15, 2017
1,125,000
         TOTAL
27,000,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, all contracts for goods estimated 
to cost more than $250,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of the Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.  
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Contracts for Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent but more than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,000,000; and (b) 
works estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less, but more than $50,000, up 
to an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and (b) goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines.
3.  
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $1,500,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts 
Page  22
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply  with respect to: 
(a)
each contract procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this 
Section; 
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first contract procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.2 and C.3 of this Section during each year of Project Implementation; the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures or 
procurement of small works, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures or procurement of small works, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
Page  23
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraph 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost- based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget or Least-Cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $80,000 but more than $50,000 per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $4,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, for 
selection under fixed budget; or (b) paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, for 
least-cost selection.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract but more than 
$7,000, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants that meet the requirements of paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultants Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
Page  24
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost more than the equivalent of $80,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III
:
Special Provisions
Part A
:
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in 
Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of submitting bids.
2.
Reference value shall not be required to be published in the bidding documents. 
3.
No minimum number of responsive bids shall be required prior to awarding a contract. 
Page  25
4.
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall not be required to legalize their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such documents with either Peruvian consulates, the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to submitting their 
bids. 
5.
Prices of awarded contracts may be adjusted, provided that the contracts have a duration 
of more than one year. 
6.
The bidding documents used for the procurement of goods and works shall be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
Part B
:
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section 
II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultant shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process.
2.
Reference value shall not be required to be published in the request for proposals 
documents. 
3.
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding a 
contract for consulting services.
4.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating in the selection process.
5.
Prices of awarded contracts may be adjusted, provided that the contracts have a duration 
of more than one year. 
6.
The requests for proposal and the contract forms for the employment of consultants shall 
be acceptable to the Bank.
