Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIUL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4334-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMHENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 37.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SECOND POWER PROJECT
May 29, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conients may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zaire (Z)
March 1986
Zaire 1.00 = US$0.02
US$   1.00  = Z 55.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                  3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)       =     0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)         0.386 square miles
I sq meter (m2)        =     10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3)    =      1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton)    =      2,204 pounds
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)        1,000,000 kilowatt hours
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAT£3                 Center for the Adaptation of Wood Energy Technology
CCCE                  Caisse centrale de cooperation economique
1iE                   D6partement des mines et de lt&nergie
Edi?                  Electricite de France
NEC                   National Energy Commission
NKLS                  National Reforestation Service
Petrozaire            Entreprise petroliare du Zaire
KEGIDESO              Regie de distribution dreau (Zaire)
SINELAC               Societe internationale dtelectricit6 des pays des
grands lacs
sis                   Systame Inga-Shaba
SNEL                  Societe nationale d'electricite
SONATRAD              National Procurement Company
SOZIR                 Societe Zaire-Italienne de Raffinage
SPE                   Service prgsidentiel d'etudes
ZOFI                  Zone franche d'Inga



- i -                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                    The Republic of Zaire
Amount:                      IDA Credit SDR 37.3 million (US$37 million
equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard
Cofinancing:                 UNDP grant of US$600,000 equivalent.
Beneficiary:                 Societe Nationale d'Electricitfe (SNEL)
Onlending Terms:             The Government would onlend SDR 37.2 million
(US$36.9 million equivalent) from the proceeds
of the Credits to SNEL at 8.5 percent interest
per annum with a 20 year repayment period,
including five years' grace.  SNEL will bear
the foreign exchange risk. UNDP funds would be
on a grant basis.
Project Description:         The project would seek to:
(a)  ensure reliability of supply to the main
interconnected networks, by (i)
rehabilitating the existing Ruzizi I plant
and the distribution networks of Bukavu,
Goma, Uvira and Kiliba; (ii) completing
the rehabilitation of the generation
stations and transmission and distribution
system in the Shaba Region; and (iii)
carrying out urgent maintenance works and
improving operation of the Inga hydropower
complex;
(b)  make optimal use of the electric energy
within the Zaire(Kivu)-Rwanda-Burundi
interconnected system by increasing the
transmission and distribution capacity of
the elecetricity network in that portion of
the Kivu region where there is
considerable suppressed demand; and
(c) strengthen SNEL as an institution through
better planning, rational pricing,
improved financial policies, and training
of its staff. An urban household energy
study to be supervised by SNEL on behalf
of the Government would determine the
substitutability of electricity for
traditional household fuels.
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benerits and Risks;          The principal benefits of the proposed project
would result from continued use of some of
Zaire's earlier major power investments and
from optimal use of power supplied through
Zaire's interconnected networks. Completion of
the rehabilitation of the Shaba power plants
and transmission system and assistance to SNEL
in operating and maintaining the Inga I and
Inga II hydropower plants would improve relia-
bility of supply to the main electrified areas
and to the vital mining industry. Physical
risks of the project are minimal. A risk lies
in the Government's lack of coherent policies
for planning and pricing, but by seeking
advice through an Energy Sector Assessment and
committing itself to exchange views with IDA on
these subjects in the future, the Government
has demonstrated its intention to improve in
these areas.   SNEL's lack of skilled manpower
is also a risk, but this is addressed by the
provision of consultants and training.
Estimate of Project Cost: March 1986
Project Components                             Local      Foreign      Total
US$ thousand-
I.   Rehabilitation and Extension of
the Kivu Power System
1. Rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I
hydropower plant                       500       6,045        6,545
2. Kivu transmission and distribution
networks and terminal to Ruzizi II 1,090          9,200      10,290
3. Radio-Communication equipment           10           70           80
II.  Rehabilitation of
the Shaba Power System                    700        3,975       4,675
lII. Emergency repairs and operational
improvements for the Inga complex         345        1,795       2,140
IV.  'rechnical Assistance and Studies 1/      710        8,370        9,080
V.   Training                                   70          590          660
Total: base Costs                       3,425       30,045       33,470
Physical Coutingencies                    365        3,240       3,605
- Subtotal                             3,790       33,285      37,075
Price Contingencies                       510        4,315       4,825
Total Cost of the Project               4,300       37,600      41,900
Iaterest During Construction            6,500         -          6,500
Total Financing Required               10,80U       37,600      48,400
1/  Including an advance from the PPF of US$1 million equivalent.



- iii -
Proposed Financing Plan;                   Local       Foreign      Total
US$ thousand-----
LlA                                   -        37,000       37,000
UNDe                                              600          600
SNEL                               10,800         -         10,800
TotaL                              10,800      37,600       48,400
Estimated Disbursements:  (IDA FY)   FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91
US$ million   --
Annual                         7.0    13.0    11.0     5.3    0.7
Cumulative                     7.0    Z0.0    31.0    36.3   37.0
Economic Rate of Return: 9.5 percent for components representing 70 percent
of total cost.
Map:                       IBRD No. 18989 - Zaire Power II Project



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SECOND POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of SDR 37.3
million equivalent (USS37.U million) on standard IDA terms to finance a
Second Power Project. The Government would onlend SDR 37.2 million (US036.9
million equivalent) from the proceeds of the Credit to SNEL at 8.5 percent
interest per ann-m with a 20 year repayment period, including five years'
grace.  SNEL would bear the foreign exchange risk.  The Project would be
co-financed, on t parallel basis, with a UNDP grant of US$ 600,000
equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOHYI/
2.        The latest country economic memorandum entitled 'Zaire:  Economic
Change and External Assistance" dated March 29, 1985 (Report No. 5417-ZR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1965. A Bank mission
to assess recent economic developments and to review the Public Investment
Program visited Zaire in March/April 1986 and its report is under
preparation. The following section is updated to reflect the findings of
the mission.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of its area
and the fifth largest in terms of its population, but its GNP per capita
estimated at US$140 in 1984, ranks among the lowest in the continent. With
a population of about 30 milion, Zaire has a low population density
estimated at 12 persons per square kilometer. About a third of its
population lives in urban areas. Although agriculture (commercialized and
subsistance) accounts for only 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment
and income for more than three-quarters of the population. Mining and
mineral processing accounts for a third of GDP and about two-thirds of the
country's export earnings. Mining has traditionally been a major source of
public sector revenues.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first six years
1/  This section, remains substantially the same as Part I of the
President's Report for the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
(P-4227-ZR) dated May 19, 1986.



-2-
following independence were marked by a violent political strife and a
severe disruption of the economy. After the restoration of political order
in 19b7, however, the country enjoyed a period of relative stability and
economic growth which lasted until 1974. During this period, GDP grew at a
rate of about seven percent a year in real terms.
The Crisis Period
5.        The first signs of crisis began to emerge in 1975 as copper
prices started to weaken. Between 1975 and 1983, the performance of the
Zairian economy was characterized by a series of crises and short-lived
recoveries, severe underutilization and deterioration of productive
capacity and infrastructure, the emergence of significant economic and
financial imbalances, high inflation, and a decline in per capita income.
Several factors, some of them predating 1975, contributed to these
difficulties. Among these are: the zairianization and nationalization
measures of 1973/74, which though rescinded since, destroyed the
distribution network and undermined private sector confidence; the heavy
external borrowing of the early 1970s, much of it at unfavorable terms and
for projects with questionable economic justification; and the deficiencies
in economic management. The weakness and volatility of world copper prices
during most of this period contributed to the severity of the crisis. By
1979, GDP contracted by about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level; inflation soared to more than 100 percent with chronic shortages of
essential consumer goods, fuel and intermediate goods. With the balance of
payments under strain, external payments arrears continued to accumulate.
Although two stabilization programs supported by the IME were adopted, and
three Paris Club reschedulings were concluded during the 1975-79 period,
these coul' not be implemented.
6.        Systematic efforts to cope with the crisis did not start until
1979. These included a new stabilization program supported by the IMF, new
debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and with
the London Club (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for the 1979-81 period with the support of the Bank, the
installation of external advisors at the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commission) and the creation of
others (a Ceatral Pay Directorate in the Ministry of Finance). Along with
a strong recovery of copper production, these measures resulted in a
considerable improvement of the economic situation in 1980.
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981, Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an "Extended Fund Facility" (EFF). Zaire also
concluded another rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club in July 1981.
Further weakening of copper and cobalt markets, however, caused exports to
fall by US$540 million (about 25 percent in nominal terms). The immediate
shortage cf foreign exchange resulted in a sudden decline in imports which
in real terms were half of the pre-crisis level.  With weakening financial



- 3 -
discipline, the budget deficit quadrupled in nominal terms, reaching 7
percent of &DP.  Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the
EFF' or the Paris Club agreement. The EFF was formally cancelled. The
failure of the EFF meant the collapse of the premises on which the hopes of
recovery had been built. These comprised: (i) improved economic and
financial performance with the help of IMF supported programs; (ii) major
external debt rescheduling; (iii) systematic institutional reform; (iv)
implementation of the public investment program; and (v) well focused
external aid in support of a realistic PIP.
8.        In 1982, copper prices continued to decline, GDP contracted
further and the overall balance of payments deficit reached a record high.
By end 1982, external payments arrears totalled US$940 million. On the
domestic front, the budget defirit continued to remain high as a percent of
GDP. Both external and domestic confidence were at a low ebb: a grossly
overvalued exchange rate, pervasive price controls, and high inflation were
the manifestations of widespread distortions in the economy.- Faced with a
severe economic and financial crisis, the Government began efforts to
reestablish conditions for recovery at the end of 1982. These efforts
included implementation in the first half of 1983 of a "shadow program", as
a precondition for a formal stand-by arrangement with the IMF.
The Stabilization Period
9.        The turning point for the Zairian economy came in 1983 when the
Government finalized, within the context of a formal IMF program, a series
of far-reaching measures, begun under the "shadow program'. These measures
included: (i) immediate devaluation of the zaire by 78 percent vis-a-vis
the SDR; (ii) introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate regime,
with unification of the two rates in February 1984 and "floating"
thereafter; (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system, including a revision of customs duties; (iv)
decontrol of most prices, including agricultural producers' prices and most
interest rates; (v) tight expenditure controls, including reduction of
public sector employment; and (vi) a series of actions to reduce the burden
of parastatals on the budget, including the sale of some assets. The
adoption of these policies was followed by a substantive rescheduling
agreement with the Paris Club creditors and a meeting of the Consultative
Group in December 1983. At the Consultative Group meeting, the
participants took two important steps relevant to the execution of the
1983-85 PIP. They agreed on the appropriateness of convening co-lender
meetings on transport (highways) and Gecamines, and they endorsed Zaire's
decision to reactivate the External Resources Coordinating Committee (which
had not met for about two years). The co-lenders meetings were held
successfully on highways in March 1985 and on Gecamines in September 1985
and March 1986.
10.       The Government's stabilization-cum-liberalization program was
also a man!festation of the growing recognition of the importance of
private initiative and of the need to reduce Government intervention in the
economy. The measures taken since 1983 were successful in putting the



-4-
Zairian economy onto a stabilization path: the budget deficit (taking into
account rescheduling of interest payments on external debt), which was 6
percent of GDP in 1982, turned into a budget surplus (about 1 percent of
GDP) in 1985; the balance of payments current account deficit (after
reschedulings) declined from 4.8 percent of GDP in 1982 to 1.8 percent in
1985; and the rate of inflation which so,red to 76 percent in 1983 was
estimated at around 30 percent in 1985. Some of these measures had an
immediFte impact. Many price distortions were eliminated so that private
sector activities could be redirected from renta-seeking activities towards
directly productive sectors. The supply response in the fooderop sector
was impressive, but the results were mixed in the manufacturing sector.
While short-run supply-side constraints, with the exception of the availa-
bility of credit, were by and large eased, capacity utilization rates in
the industrial sector remained low. In addition, demand for manufactured
products was curtailed by the sharp reduction in purchasing pow-r in urban
areas. Following a real GDP decline of 2.6 percent in 1982, growth picked
up in 1983 and reached 2.8 percent in 1984. According to preliminary
estimates, GDP growth was around two percent in 1985. This slowdown was
due largely to lower import growth as the foreign exchange shortage
worsened.
I1.       With the floating exchange rate and the liberalization of
exchange restrictions, both the volume of transactions and the premium on
the parallel foreign exchange market were substantially reduced. In the
non-copper export sector, significant export volumes were restored to
official channels. Nevertheless, developments in the external sector
during 1983-85 were characterized by weak export prices and net capital
outflows. The primary source of strain on the balance of payments has been
on the capital account. First, disbursements on grants and medium- and
long-term loans have declined precipitously since 1980. Second, private
capital flows, including new direct foreign investment, have remained at
negligible levels even after the 1983 reforms. Third, the debt service
burden has continued to increase notwithstanding debt reschedulings. The
rapid decline in disbursements on medium- and long-term (M&LT) loans to
Zaire can be traced back to fluctuations in the commitments before 1983 and
their continuous decline thereafter. Since 1983, the major source of
commitments and disbursements has been multilateral donors which have
increased their lending to Zaire both individually and as a group.
Transfers from bilateral sources as a group have been negative since 1983.
12.       Zaire successfully concluded another rescheduling agreement with
the Paris Club creditors in May 1985 and, to date, has met all of its
external debt obligations under the Paris and London Club agreements. Ln
spite of these reschedulings, the impact of debt service and of the rapid
depreciation of the zaire on fiscal management has been drastic. The
combined effects of exchange rate depreciation and revenue measures taken
since 1983 have been significant: the ratio of fiscal revenues to GDP rose
from 10 percent in 1982 to 17 percent in 1985. The tax base, however,
remains heavily dependent on export-based activities such as the copper and
oil sectors. Despite significant revenue increases, the budget has been
under immense pressure because of the increasing debt service burden since



-5-
1982. Soaring debt service payments in local currency terms have necessi-
tated massive cuts in salaries, expenditures on goods and services, and
investment expenditures in real terms. The share of debt service payments
(after reschedulings and including arrears and domestic debt service) rose
from 17 percent of total expenditures in 1982 to 73 percent (of which 55
percent was for external debt service payments) in 1985, thus considerably
reducing the Coverument's latitude in allocating budgetary resources.
13.       The brunt of financial adjustment fell on the investment budget
which financed 10-15 percent of the public investment program. As a share
of total budgetary expenditures, investment spending declined from 12
percent in 1982 to less than 3 percent in 1985. This corresponded to 0.4
percent of GDP. Overall financial execution of the 1983-85 PIP was 65
percent, with a much lower physical execution rate. ImpLementation of the
program varied significantly among sectors. Agencies which used self-
generated funds were able to implement a larger proportion of their
programs than those which depended on the investment budget for domestic
funds.
Medium Term Prospects
14.       Despite Zaire's stabilization efforts and major policy reforms
since 1983, the country's external situation will remain difficult in the
years to come. For the 1986-90 period, the prospects of real export growth
are not favorable. The volume of copper, cobalt, and zinc exports,
accounting for more than half of export revenues, is expected to remain
unchanged. Much of the growth in exports is expected from gold, silver,
coffee and, increasingly, from manufactures.  In terms of volume, export
growth is not expected to exceed 3 percent during the 1986-90 period. At
the same time, the projected evolution of Zaire's export prices indicates a
slight decline in the terms of trade for the 1986-90 period. External debt
service payments will continue to represent a major burden on the balance
of payments. Of Zaire's total external debt outstanding, estimated at
US$5.4 billion at the end of 1985, almost two thirds have been rescheduled
at near market terms. The debt service payments on past medium and long-
term debt falling due in the 1986-90 period is US$4 billion, excluding the
obligations to the IMF. As a result, Zaire's ratio of external debt
service payments to exports of goods and non-factor services before
rescheduling could increase from 27 percent in 1985 to 35 percent in 1988.
15.       In addition to the external financial situation, several other
constraints will continue to hamper the country's ability to resume growth
in the medium term. First, the domestic financial situation will continue
to remain tight. In 1985, debt service after rescheduling represented 50
percent of budgetary expenditures and it will continue to limit the
resources available for compensation of public servants and public invest-
ment. Second, despite improvements in recent years, the institutions in
charge of economic and financial management as well as some of the major
parastatals need further strengthening. Third, there is a need to improve
upon the maintenance of an inadequate physical infrastructure.



-6-
16.       The GovernmentIs growth strategy, as expressed in the 1986-90
Five-Year Plan, is aimed at achieving a minimum growth rate of GDP of 3.5 a
year over the 1986-9U period, mainly by promoting private sector activi-
ties and by focusing on the rehabilitation of public infrastructures. This
should allow !or a real increase in per capita income. The Government's
strategy is basically sound, but its success rests on the concerted efforts
of Zaire and its international partners. For GDP to grow at 3.5 percent a
year, an annual import growth of 4.6 percent during 1986-90 would be
required. Overall import requirements are estimated at US$2.2 billion in
1986, US$2.4 billion in 1987 and US$2.7 billion in 1988. Given the limited
export prospects and debt service payments, the external financing gap will
average US$1.1 billion between 1?86 and 1989. Zaire will therefore
continue to need increased, financial assistance from the international
community in the form of grants, concessional borrowings and debt relief.
The last meeting of the Consultative Group (April 1986) was encouraging:
aid indications from the donor community for the 1986-87 period were
substantially larger than the disbursements of the 1983-85 period but, in
spite of this favorable development, public grants and loans will not be
enough to fill Zaire's external financing gap until the end of the
decade. Private capital flows, especially in the form of direct investment
by Zairian and foreign entrepreneurs alike, will have to play a major role.
17.       The growth path of the Zairian economy will largely depend also
on the efforts made by the Government at pursuing financial discipline
while implementing a structural adjustment program with two major goals:
the first would be to put in place an appropriate incentive framework,
designed to redirect resources away from rent seeking towards productive
activities; and the second would be to improve public sector management by
institutionalizing a public expenditure programming process, by defining
more clearly the role of public enterprises in the Zairian economy, and by
improving the day-to-day operations of public administration. The Govern-
ment is continuing to take measures that go in the right direction. First,
it has requested the support of the IMF for a 22-month stand-by that has
been approved in principle by the IMF Board of Directors. Second, it has
prepared a core public investment program that has been reviewed by the
Bank and endorsed by the Consultative Group on Zaire, with an emphasis on
the rehabilitation of infrastructures and on selected new investments.
Continued efforts to maintain internal and external equilibria in the
context of a program of adjustment with growth could lead to a turnaround
in the balance of payments situation by the early 1990's.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.       From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 40 IDA credits
totalling about US$650.0 million for agriculture, transport, development
tinance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum technical
assistance and education projects. The Association also approved a US$30
million African Facility Credit as a supplemental contribution to the Sixth
Highway Project.  The Bank Group has also extended grants totalling



-7-
US$40U,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
-rojects in Zaire.
19.       In 1975, the Bank made a loan ot US$100 million for the Gecamines
Mining Expansion Project, which was confinanced by the European Investment
Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for special
repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. A
Technical Assistance Credit was approved in 1983 to assist Gecamines with
its efforts to restructure its organization, improve its manpower and
prepare a long-term rehabilitation and expansion program.
2U.       The IFC, which has a US$1.3 million equity participation in the
Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million
loan in 1978 for an offshore oil production project, and a US$230,000 loan
in 1982 for studies related to the development of an aluminium complex at
Banana. In 1985, IFC approved a US$6.25 million loan to, and a US$528,000
equity participation, in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 million
loan to the -Grands H8tels du Zaire"; and a US$100,000 equity participation
in a cotton farming operation. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA Credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986.
21.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport
agencies, ONATRA, Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ),
Rfgie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), R0gie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office
des Routes (OK), have received technical and financial assistance from the
Association, which also helped establish the National Livestock Development
Authority (ONDE). In the case of Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a
dialogue, stil ongoing and now supported by a technical assistance credit,
intended to define ways and means to strengthen the management, financial
position and planning of the company.
22.       Project implementation has been satisfactory despite difficulties
resulting from the country's inadequate manpower and management capability
and, in recent years, from the economic crisis. In the last two or three
years, release of the required budgetary funds has been difficult period-
ically becauLse of budgetary constraints. Lack of Loreign exchange to
finance spare parts and fuel, and the deterioration of the transport net-
work and marketing system have resulted in severe supply problems for most
projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate staff have also been
difficult.
23.       In January 1980, the Bank, together with Zairian officials,
undertook. an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for the first
time, provided an integrated view of implementation problems; this resulted
in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank Group
assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector. A second overall
review, focussing on macro-economic and sectoral issues and on their impact
on project implementation, took place in May 1983 and assisted the Govern-
ment in formulating the important economic measures of September 1983
(para. 12).



8-
24.       Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed.
Completion reports have been issued for all these projects. Performance
Audit Reports have been issued for the first three SOFIDE and Highway
Projects, the River Transport Project, the Rail/River Project and the First
Education Project. The conclusion of the audit and completion reports was
that the Bank Group's impact on institution buildiug had been mixed. With
the e4ception of SOFIDE, all other project entities had encountered
operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the investment
environment were exacerbated by the Government's zairianization/radicali-
zation measures.
25.       Nonetheless, effective administrations had evolved in REGIDESO,
SUFIDE and the Office des Routes, the highway agency. Performance of
ONATRA, the port and river transport agency, had uot improved as a result
ot the first River Transport Project but did improve under the Rail/River
Project. More attention to institution building activities would have been
beneficial in the education sector; administrative weaknesses in the
Department of Education were cited as partly responsible for poor perform-
ance under the First Project and the inability to implement investment
components under the Second Education Project which resulted in cancella-
tion of US$18.8 million in February 1983.
26.       In the case of G&eamines, the delay in project implementation and
reorientation of proj ect scope from expansion/rehabilitation to rehabilita-
tion only were not attributable to institutional weaknesses, but rather to
a combination of external forces (copper price decline, Shaba invasion) and
domestic economic crisis; nevertheless, positive results were achieved in
the areas of tax reform, marketing and management and are being continued
under a Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1336-ZR). Partly as a result of
tie project, Gecamines' production has returned to near capacity level.
Baok Group support to all of the above mentioned entities is continuing
through follow-on projects designed to address the issues raised by the
completion and audit reDorts.
27.       The rate of disbursement to Zaire (about 20 percent for fiscal
years 1983-85) is average for the Eastern Africa Region.  While disburse-
ment performance in general is satisfactory, difficult'es have arisen in
several projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education
and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong
project entity caused delays. Economic conditions were also a factor in
slowing implementation in instances where government counterpart funds were
not available (Third Highway Credit 660-Zk; Second Education, Credit
624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow recovery in
the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR).
Implementation of ongoing projects should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent
projects and efforts by the Government to improve budgetary support of
IDA-financed projects. As of December 31, 1985, the Bank Group's share of
Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was about 13.0 percent.



-9-
28.       In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part through the
design and implementation of appropriate new policies. Initial efforts in
support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power
Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue co assist the development
ot the agriculture sector, including policy reforms under the agricultural
component of a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, and to support the
efficient functioning of the industrial, mining and transport sectors.
29.       A rehabilitation project for Gecamines and a SOFIDE project to
support rehabilitation and new investments in the productive sectors were
approved recently. In addition, further assistance will be considered for
the energy sector to aevelop the power and fuelvood subsectors.
Preparation is underway for a technical assistance project to improve
investment planning, budgetary procedures, and parastatal management, and
for a navigation improvement project.  In addition to investment projects,
a quick-disbursing Structural Adjustment Credit is also under preparation
to address cross-sectoral issues and pave the way for medium-term recovery.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
30.       Energy Resources.  Zaire's abundant energy resources remain
unexplored and underexploited. The country's hydroelectric potential
(774,000 GWh/yr) represents almost half the hydroelectric potential for the
entire African continent, and about 12 percent of estimated annual
hydroelectric production worldwide. Oil and coal resources are largely
unexplored except for oil resources at the coast and some coal mines in the
Shaba region. Commercially recoverable crudes are estimated at about 74
million barrels, and commercially mineable beds of coal (principally in the
Shaba region) at 720 million tons. Uranium has been exported for many
years. The country contains over half the forest resources of Sub-Saharan
Africa. While their bulk remains unexploited, forests near the main
population centers are close to depletion due to excessive felling. Other
potential energy sources include shale deposits, tar sands, the natural gas
of Lake Kivu, and solar energy. Finally, promising sources of geothermal
energy and non-wood biomass energy have been identified, but their full
potential as well as the extent of actual and potential biomass utilization
have yet to be defined.
31.       Energy Demand, Imports and Exports. In 1983, final energy
consumption totalled about 8.6 million toe (280 kg toe per capita).
Traditional energy sources (wood, charcoal, and biomass wastes) provided 86
percent of total energy consumption, most of it as household energy
(cooking, heating and lighting). The remainder was provided by petroleum



- 10 -
(8 percent), power (4 percent), and coal (2 percent). The main consumers
of these modern energy forms were: the mining industry (39 percent),
transportation (36 percent), and manufacturing (9 percent). Agriculture,
commerce, and private households accounted for the remaining 16 percent of
modern energy consumption. Zaire is a net exporter of electric power (net
exports of 117 GWh in 1985), and an importer of coal and coke for the
copper smelters in the Shaba region. Zaire is a net petroleum exporter in
volume, but, in value, the net surplus is modest (para. 36).
Sector Organization and Plau-ing
32.       Numerous government ministries and public and semi-public
agencies are concerned with the energy sector, but they are not organized
to ensure coordination. None has access to all the information required to
define sector policies, nor the capacity to implement them.
33.        The Ministry of Mines and Energy (DME), with a staff of 400,
about half of whom are professionals, is responsible for the supervision of
the electric utility (SNEL, paras. 51-61), and the regulation of import,
refining and marketing of petroleum products through a public company
(Petrozaire). Petrozaire holds a product processing contract with Societe
Zairo-Italienne de Raffinage (SOZIR), and minority shares in four
semi-public companies responsible for the marketing of petroleum products,
and a service company. In general, DME's overall energy responsibilities
receive lower priority than those relating to the mining sector. Besides
DME, other Government agencies have reponsibilities in the energy sector:
the Department of National Economy and Industry determines the prices of
electricity and oil products, the Department of Finance, Budget, and
Portfolio manages the Government's holdings in the petroleum exploration
and refining companies, and the Ministry of Environment, Nature
Conservation and Tourism administers Zaire's forestry and fuelwood sector.
In addition, the National Reforestation Service (MRS), and the Center for
the Adaptation of Wood Energy Technology (CATEB) are also active in the
energy sector.
34.       The Government attempts to define a coherent approach to the
energy sector started in 1981 with the creation of a National Energy
Commission (NEC) responsible for sectoral coordination and the definition
of a national energy policy. Its members are officials from DME, the
Department of National Economy and Industry, REGIDESO (the wate-r supply
company), and the Presidential Study Bureau.  An energy eixpert, financed by
the CCCE contribution to the Association's Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR, para. 67), has been providing
assistance to NEC since December 1985 for a two-year term.
35.       To jointly develop their common hydro resources, Burundi, Rwanda
and Zaire have created two international institutions, Energie des pays des
grands lacs (EGL) and SocietS Internationale d'Electricite des Pays des
Grands Lacs to implement the Ruzizi II hydroelectric project (SINELAC,
para. 68).



- 11 -
Main Sector Issues
36.       Petroleum supply.  In 1983, Zaire imported 44,700 toe of crude
oil and 685,000 toe of refined products and exported over 1.2 million toe
of crude. Since the late 1970's, petroleum product consumption remained
nearly constant at about 700,000 tons yearly with foreign exchange scarcity
as the main constraint to supply. Measures were introduced in June 1985
which eliminated PetroZaire's import monopoly, the fixed market quotas of
the five marketing companies, and the uniform national prices for
products. Additional savings could be achieved through further
market-oriented reforms which are still needed to encourage entry of new
suppliers, price competitition among marketing companies, and competitive
bidding for product imports. Product movement is also costly and
unreliable because of inefficient lightering by barges, the deteriorated
state of the Matadi-Kinshasa pipeline, lack of adequate storage, and
logistical problems along the distribution route, particularly on the Voie
Nationale on the Zaire river. Some pipeline rehabilitation and storage
additions are being financed with private capital from the marketing
companies, and improved product unloading and other storage needs are also
under review.
37.        Fuelwood.  Firewood is the major fuel for rural populations and
households in urban peripheries, and charcoal dominates in the urban
centers. Even those urban households who have access to electricity or
kerosene continue to prefer woodfuels for cooking, because of lower costs
at present relative prices, and of the persistence of traditional cooking
habits. Growing fuel-wood demand from urban populations is, however,
putting increased pressure on the forests, and sources of supply are
depleted as far as 150 km from Kinshasa and 100 km from Kolwezi and
Lubumbashi. Charcoal prices in Kinshasa are four to five times as high as
35 km outside the capital.
38.       The only attempts to date to address the deforestation problem
have been in the Kinshasa region, for which Government has plans to
accelerate electrification in an attempt to reduce the pressure on
traditional fuelwood resources. Apart from the question of its financial
feasibility, accelerated electrification is too optimistically expected to
have a major impact on the demand for charcoal in the medium-term (ten
years). After long delays, a complementary plan to supply Kinshasa with
fuelwood through the carefully controlled exploitation of existing forest
reserves and the possible development, if necessary, of fuelwood
plantations, within easy reach of the capital, is now under preparation,
and the Association is considering financing such an operation. A study of
household energy needs, to be conducted under the proposed project
(para. 75), would help analyze the costs of alternative fuel options, and
contribute  o the design of the project.
39.       On a country-wide scale, the establishment of fuelwood
plantations under the National Reforestation Service (NRS) around cities
threatened with deforestatioa seems justifiable, particularly in connection
with the production and use of high-yield charcoal kilus. More efficient



- 12 -
forestry exploitation combined with more efficient charcoal production,
transport, and marketing should help to limit deforestation and hold down
the increasing cost of household energy. In addition, an energy
conservation measure with potential national significance would be the
widespread adoptiou of prototype wood burning stoves. Available models are
capable of providing considerable energy savings, but extensive publicity
and information would be needed to encourage their purchase and use. The
proposed project's study on household energy would review the prospects for
the production and distribution of such stoves.
The Power Subsector
4u.       Access to Electricity.  In 1985 only about 3 percent of the
population had access to electricity, the highest percentage (13 percent)
being in Kinshasa. Kinshasa and the surrounding area of Bas-Zaire in the
west, and the Shaba region in the south-eastern part of the country,
consume about 95 percent of electric power. The Shaba region alone
accounts for about 73 percent of consumption, with 61 percent attributable
to Gecamines, the state owned copper mining company. Except in these
regions, less than 1 percent of the remaining 19 million inhabitants have
access to electricity. The situation is even worse in the Kivu region where
the transmission and distribution network is isolated and limited. Zaire's
average estimated per capita consumption of electrical energy was 144 kWh
in 1985, but only 8 kWh per capita ia the Kivu region.
41.       Existing Generation Facilities.  Zaire's total installed capacity
(2,599 NW) is 95 percent hydro and 5 percent thermal, mainly diesel.
SNEL's installed capacity represents about 95 percent of the national
total, and most of it is hydro. In addition, private companies operate
their own small hydro (total of 80 MW) and thermal (total of 59 MW) power
plants. The largest hydroelectric plants are concentrated in the
Bas-Zaire/Kinshasa and Shaba regions. SNEL also owns and operates 5 hydro
(58 MW) and 32 diesel (58 MW) power stations which supply other cities. In
Kivu, the Ruzizi I plant (28.2 MW) serves the Bukavu and Uvira areas, which
utilize about 40 percent of the plant capacity; the remainder is exported
to Rwanda and Burundi. The town of Goma in the northern part of the Kivu
region has recently been connected to the system supplied from Ruzizi I.
42.       The Inga-Shaba System.  In 1974, Government decided to construct
the Inga II hydroelectric station (1,424 MW), together with the Inga-Shaba
transmission system (SIS), comprising a 1,700 km, 1,000 kV direct current
(DC) line running from the Inga II power station in western Zaire to
Kolwezi (Shaba), with converter stations at Inga and Kolwezi. Works were
commissioned in 1982-1983, at a total cost of about US$2 billion in 1983
prices, primarily financed by a consortium of banks led by the US Exim-Bank
and the Governments of Italy and Sweden. The expectations on which the
project was based (expansion of the copper mines and smelters, rapid
expansion of the economy, and new industrial development in a free zone to
be set up --Zone Franche d'Inga, ZOFI) proved overly optimistic. Today,
Inga II generates only about 200 KW (about 14 percent of capacity) to



- 13 -
supply the DC transmission line to Shaba. This underutilization involves
both inefficient use of expensive capital and physical deterioration. In
mid 1985, the Association recommended an independent study by a panel of
international experts to: (i) correct the operating problems and establish
rehabilitation and maintenance procedures to improve system reliability;
and ('i) develop a long-term strategy to eliminate the technical problems
due to operating with excess capacity. A preliminary report of the panel
hds identified emergency measures to prevent further deterioration
(para. 74).
43.       Nearly all SNEL's power plants, including the largest ones (Inga
I and Inga II), but particularly the isolated plants dating from the
1960's, are in need of rehabilitation because of the company's limited
technical capability and irregular maintenance during periods of foreign
exchange scarcity. The four hydro power plants of the Shaba region are
being rehabilitated under the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project
(CR. 1224-ZR). The Ruzizi I hydroplant in Kivu would be rehabilitated
under the proposed project, which would also include funds for the
systematic review of further maintenance needs for supplemental work on the
Shaba plants, and for urgent repairs of the Inga complex.
44.       The Government wishes to increase the utilization of existing
capacity by increasing the demand for power. Among the alternatives under
consideration are: (i) the establishment of power intensive industries
under ZOFI; (ii) accelerated expansion of the distribution network in
Kinshasa; (iii) replacement of gasoil and fuel oil industrial boilers and
furnaces by electric ones, particularly in the Kinshasa area; (iv) power
exports to the Congo; and (v) increased utilization of the SIS (tapping at
Kananga and exports to Zimbabwe). Besides the cost of additional
infrastructure, the viability of the schemes depends to a large extent upon
the offer of Inga's surplus power at a low cost, and a variety of
promotional rates are associated with these schemes. While promotional
rates would be acceptable while electricity is in surplus, long-term
marginal cost pricing should be introduced when approaching full capacity
utilization to avoid subsidizing consumers. Government has agreed that
tariffs for power supplied to ZOFI from Inga II would be adjusted to
reflect long-term marginal cost at the time when Inga's capacity is fully
committed and investments in additional facilities for the supply of
electricity are required.
45.       Assets Transfer.  The large infrastructure investments undertaken
by Government, with its own financing (para. 42) have been operated by
SNEL since their commissioning in 1982/83. Government has, however,
retained ownership of the Inga II plant and the Inga-Shaba line, serviced
the debt for both, and paid maintenance charges for the Inga-Shaba line.
In 1983, the Government decided that the plant and the line should become
SNEL's assets, but no legal cession or rational transfer prices were
agreed. As the country's sole power utility, S?EL is charged with
operation, maintenance and renewal obligations for all power sector assets,
and the asset transfer is justified. These assets are, however, used well
below their capacity (14 percent for Inga II, and 24 percent for SIS), and
their costs (other than debt service and foreign exchange expenditures for



- 14 -
the maintenance of SIS) and reveaues are accruing to SNEL. If the full
costs associated with the transrerred assets were passed on to SNEL, they
could not be borne by consumers during the transition period toward full
capacity utilization. Utilization is, currently, not expected to increase
above 50 percent of capacity for Inga II until 1991, and may, in fact,
decline in the case of SIS as demand in the Shaba region is once again met
from local hydropower stations currently under rehabilitation. To
distribute the financial burdea equitably between SNEL and Government, the
transfer price of these assets would be based on their value in use. SNEL
and the Government would conclude, by June 30, 1987, a legal agreement to
(i) determine ownership of all assets financed by the Government but
operated by SNEL; (ii) establish responsibility for payment of existing
debt service until all outstanding loans are fully repaid; (iii) define the
broad objectives of SNEL's tariff policy so that SNEL's operation and
maintenance costs as well as the renewal and expansion of SNEL 's assets are
covered by SNEL's owa resources; and (iv) transfer the Inga II hydro plant
and the Inga Shaba line to SNEL at a transfer price based oa their value in
use. SNEL would also, beginning in 1987, cover from its own resources all
operating and maintenance charges associated with the Inga II hydro plant
and Inga-Shaba transmission line and, beginning in that same year,
reimburse over a ten-year period, a portion of the original debt related to
construction of the Inga II hydro plant corresponding to its value in use.
46.       Transmission.  The total length of SNEL's transmission lines at
the end of 1984 was 4,970 km composed of various voltage levels. The
transmission system in the Kivu region is primarily composed of two 70-kV
lines and requires only minor rehabilitation. The Inga-Shaba line (SIS,
para. 42) represents more than 34 percent of the total network. The line
has a design load of 1,120 MW, but is presently transmitting 24 percent of
its design capacity, with steadily improving reliability since it was put
into service in 1982. Maintenance and operation of the SIS are carried out
by a private company at a cost of about US$1.2 million per month. The SIS
will be used through 1985-1988 to make up for power shortfalls during
rehabilitation of the Shaba power system and to balance the system, and
alternative uses would be reviewed under the proposed project to determine
long-term options (para. 75).
47.       Distribution.  Forty-eight towns had distribution networks by
end-1984, with major networks in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. Lack of
maintenance and technical expertise, resulting in high losses and
unreliable supply, characterize the transmission and distribution (T&D)
systems. Funds included in the proposed project for a systematic review of
rehabilitation needs would also cover T&V systems. The distribution
networks in the Kivu region require extensive rehabilitation and need to be
extended to meet presently unserved demand as well as expected growth.
48.       Connections and Sales. At the end of 1985, the total number of
consumers was 116,500. Analysis of low voltage consumption (17 percent)
shows it consists mainly of commercial enterprises and households with
relatively high incomes. In Kivu, 8,760 out of 8,840 consumers were, in
1985, connected to the low voltage distribution network, and accounted for



- 15 -
53 percent of total sales (40.4 GWh). Medium voltage sales accounted for
the remaining 47 percent.
49.       Losses.  In 1985, losses represented about 5.4 percent of total
supply, a relatively low percentage due to the large share (62 percent) of
power supplied from high voltage lines. In all regions, anomalies in
metering, collection, and billing are evidenced by wide variations in
losses: in the Kivu area, for example, losses varied from 25 percent in
1981 to 8.4 percent in 1984, reflecting unbilled and unmetered connections
as well as inaccurate readings. The rehabilitation and expansion of the
distribution networks will alleviate the technical losses. As for
administrative losses caused by underbilling, a special effort to identify
customers, conduct field checks, and ensure timely billing, supported under
the Shaba project, is showing positive results: in 1984 medium and low
voltage sales have greatly increased above the 1983 levels. SNEL has
expanded to the Kivu region, this on-going consumer inventory/collection
improvement program, with a target completion date of December 31, 1986.
50.       Historical Demand.  The total demand for electrical energy in
Zaire follows general economic trends and, in particular, those of the
copper industry. In 1985, total sales within Zaire reached an all time
maximum. The average annual increase in sales was 2.4 percent between 1974
and 1985, and 4.1 percent between 1979 and 1985, with Gecamines continuing
to account for about 56 percent of total sales. In 1985, medium voltage
sales amounted to 20 percent of total sales, and low voltage to 17
percent. In Kivu, total demand in the Bukavu-Uvira areas increased by about
13 percent yearly between 1979 and 1985, mainly as a result of the entry
into operation in December 1981 of an electrical boiler at the brewery in
Bukavu. Excluding the boiler, demand in the area increased at an average
rate of 15 percent yearly between 1979 and 1985, reflecting Kivu's
relatively high potential for growth. If the town of Goma is included, the
average annual increase for the region over the same period was 8 percent.
The Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNEL)
51.       The Societe Nationale d'ElectricitE (SNEL), wholly Government
owned, is responsible for the generation, transmission, and distribution of
electricity throughout Zaire.
52.       SNEL's Structure.  In 1982, SNEL replaced its top he~-
horizontal organization with a pyramidal hierachy, which has improved
communication and clarified responsibilities. SNEL's newly established
Organization and Methods Committee (OC) is defining guidelines to
identify, train or recruit competent managers so as to decentralize
responsibilities further. OMC receives the assistance of management
consultants under Credit 1224-ZR. Under the proposed project, these
activities would be extended to personnel management, procurement,
inventory control, accounting, and internal control procedures (para. 75).



- 16 -
53.       Regional Organization.  SNEL, with headquarters in Kinshasa, is
organized into six geographical regions and one administrative "region"
managing the operations of the Inga-Shaba transmission system (para. 42).
The Eastern Region typifies SNEL's regional structure: the regional office
(Kisangani) is largely responsible for local technical management, while
decisions on personnel and finance are made in Kinshasa. Within the
Eastern Region, the Kivu subregion is in charge of operations of the Ruzizi
I hydropower plant and exports to Rwanda and Burundi. The Kivu local staff
and management, mostly Zairian nationals, are competent and operations have
been smooth. Power failures in Kivu have been mainly due to shortages of
equipment and to poor maintenance for lack of foreign exchange.
54.      SNEL's Management.  SNEL operates under the supervision of two
Departments (Mines and Energy, and Finance, Budget and Portfolio) through a
nine member Board of Directors chaired by the Director General. Daily
management is under the responsibility of a management committee. The
Board is nominally responsible for all operational and financial decisions,
and it has taken prompt and effective decisions on tariff adjustments and
organizational restructuring. Government has, however, interfered with the
company 's management through its mandatory review and approval of tariff
adjustments, and, through its undertaking major investments in the 1970's
with inadequate attention to their impact on the company. A four member
external audit commission, reporting to the Minister of Finance, has not
been effective and SNEL has therefore appointed independent external
auditors for the auditing of its accounts (para. 57).
55.       Staffing.  SNEL employs a total of 4,700 staff (end of 1985)
serving some 116,500 consumers. There are about 950 managers, university
graduates and skilled technicians and 3,750 unskilled workers. The
employee/customer ratio of 25 is acceptable by regional standards, in view
of SNEL's diverse operations and their geographical dispersion, but the
company is attempting to streamline its operations further by gradually
reducing its staff. In general, SNEL staff lack the theoretical knowledge
necessary to perform technical tasks effectively and are further
constrained by equipment shortages. In addition, staff motivation suffers
from inadequate remuneration and undefined career prospects. Under Credit
1224-ZR, SNEL is designing an incentive system to improve staff
performance, to be financed from savings achieved through reduction in
staff size. The lack of skills would be remedied, under the proposed
project, through comprehensive assistance to the company's training center
in Sanga (para. 76).
56.       SNEL's full time expatriate staff have been reduced from 67 in
i975 to 30 in 1986, of whom 8 hold key managerial positions. The
expatriates' daily operational responsibilities have, however, limited
their availability for training national staff. Arrangements permitting an
effective transfer of skills would be emphasized in the training and
management assistance activities of the proposed project (para. 76). SNEL
also continues to rely heavily on short-term consultants, especially for
its financial, commercial, design and procurement activities as well as for
project studies.



- 17 -
57.       Accounting and Audits.  Accounts are kept separately for the head
office, all regions, and certain subregions. Consultants have helped SNEL
improve its accounting and, in compliance with conditions established under
Credit 1224-ZR, independent auditors have audited the companyts accounts
annually. SNEL's 1981, 1982 and 1983 audits were qualified, and the 1984
audit received certification with qualification. The auditors have noted
improvements in inter-regional coordination, billing of high and medium
voltage clients and some accounting practices, but problems in inte-nal
control, inventory management, and the qualifications of accounting staff
have led to qualification of the accounts. SNEL is making efforts, through
the general management assistance program, to correct the anomalies
identified by its auditors and to improve its accounting practices. The
1985 audit is due in September 1986 and certification is expected.
58.       SNEL's Financial Positioju. Ia i985, cash generation improved
following several rate increases throughout the year. The positive effect
was, however, offset by adjustments to revalue SNEL's assets to reflect
their utility value (adjusted replacement cost) and value in use, as well
as other non-recurring adjustments to accounts recommended by the auditors,
resulting in a negative rate of return. Under the project, SNEL would (i)
take all necessary measures including the adjustment of its tariffs, to
produce for each of its fiscal years beginning in 1986, funds from internal
sources equivalent to about 30 percent of the annual average of capital
expenditures incurred or to be incurred during that year and the next two
fiscal years; and (ii) review before June 30 in each of its fiscal years,
on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the Association, the adequacy of
its tariffs to meet the requirement for cash generation against capital
expenditures and furnish to the Association a copy of the review upon its
completion.   Financial projections, based on revalued assets and the
principles above, show that SNEL would earn a low rate of return on its
investments in 1986, but indicate improvements which would result in a 6
percent rate of return in 1991.  Gradual tariff adjustments would help to
improve SNEL's financial situation and avoid large increases which occurred
in the past due to delays in the approval of adjustments. To provide the
necessary analytic background, the project would finance the updating of
the long run marginal cost (LRMC) and electricity tariff study undertaken
by Electricitg de France under Credit 1224-ZR.
59.       Rate increases to obtain these results would be 86 percent in
1987, 24 percent in 1988, 22 percent in 1989, and 15 percent in 1990 and
1991. In 1986, high voltage rates to Gecamines were raised by 22 percent,
effective March 1, and a series of increases for other categories of users
was agreed, resulting in an additioial average increase of 13 percent which
brings the overall average rate to ZO.795 (US$0.013) per Kwh. The 1986
increase is acceptable in view of the difficult current economic situation,
and as the first step of a comprehensive multi-year program of adjustments
to reach long term marginal cost pricing. The large increase needed in
1987 is due mainly to the elimination of past Government subsidies for SIS
operations and for borrowings on SNEL's behalf, and will raise the average
tariff from Z 0.795 to Z 1.48 (US$0.021), a level still relatively low
compared with other countries of the region and the preliminary estimate of
LRMC of about US$0.05.  The 1987 increase will be phased in two steps,



- 18 -
following the principle of semi-annual reviews and adjustments agreed with
Government and SNEL.
60.       Other financial indicators show an improving situation. SNEL's
receivables declined to 4.1 months of sales at the end of 1985, compared to
an average of 5.5 months in 1983-84, and an average of 10 months for the
1980-82 period. Receivables would not exceed 4 monthst sales by end-1986, 3
months' sales by end-1987, and 2.5 months sales by end-1988 and
thereafter. To bring receivables down to these levels, SNEL and Government
would agree on an action program acceptable to the Association. Submission
of the action program would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. SNEL's
1984 debt equity ratio (11/89) reflects the Government's past practice of
financing infrastructure and social investments in the power sector on
SNEL's behalf. Since budgetary constraints now prevent Government from
continuing to incur new debt, the company will have to assume increasing
financial responsibility for past and future power sector investments.
While Government would bear debt service related to the Inga II hydroplant,
and Inga-Shaba line until outstanding loans are fully repaid, SNEL would
reimburse Government over a ten-year period beginning in 1987 the portion
of the original debt incurred for the construction of thc3e facilities
corresponding to their value in use when transferred.
61.       With all loans and credits (including the proposed credit) to
SNEL reflected in the accounts as liabilities to SNEL, the debt/equity
ratio would average 35/65 over the 1986-92 period, which is an acceptable
level. The current assets/current liabilities ratio would vary between 1.3
and 2.1 for the years 1986 through 1992. In order to move toward a policy
of Government on-lending to SNEL at commercial rates (in contrast to the
recent practice of on-lending at the same concessional rates obtained by
Government), Government and SNEL have agreed that all grants, credits and
loans obtained by the Government for the purpose of financing SNEL's
1985-1992 investment program would not, without the Association's prior
consent, be on-lent to SNEL at less than 5 percent interest and that the
foreign exchange risk would be assumed by SNEL. In addition, SNEL would
not incur debt unless the internal cash generated for the twelve months
preceding incurrence of the debt is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding year.
62.        Insurance.  To date, SNEL's risks nave been covered by Government
on a self insurance basis without any provision for an insurance fund.
This practice is not satisfactory, and Government has agreed to review it
under the management assistance program with a view to providing a suitable
insurance coverage for SNEL's assets.
Purchasing Arrangements
63.       The Government, aware of procurement problems in all its public
enterprises, chose to address them through the creation in March 1985 of a
central procurement agency, the Societe Nationale de Trading (SONATRAD), to
serve all large public enterprises, including SNEL. SONATRAD's mandate is



- 19 -
to permit substantial improvements in procurement through improved
negotiation techniques, grouped orders from several public enterprises,
standardization of equipment, elimination of certain purchasing
intermediaries, diversification of supply sources, and promotion of
competitive local producers.
b4.       Extensive discussions have taken place since March 1985 between
the Government, SNEL, SONATRAD and the Association to develop SONATRAD into
an institution that can effectively play its role, and to have the
respective roles and responsibilities of SNEL and SONATRAD clearly spelled
out. A Purchasing Agreement between SNEL and SONATRAD, agreed as a result
of these discussions, was signed on April 7, 1986.2/ It is a satisfactory
document which adequately addresses the weaknesses of the present system
and would not be amended without prior Bank approval. In addition, SNEL
would maintain control over its purchasing, and quarterly external audits
of SONATRAD would apprise SNEL, and the Association, of progress in the
implementation of the Purchasing Agreement.
O5.       Investment Planning and Programming.  Government is aware of the
past lack of systematic planning for the power subsector. To help
introduce a more rational planning process, the Association is financing
(Credit 1224-ZR) the establishment and strengthening of a planning unit and
the preparation of a long-term development plan to the year 2000. In May
1984, the planning unit began to define a 1986-1990 program of investments
designed to respond to the needs of the productive sectors, and to develop
industrial and household sales. Under the proposed project, SNEL would
complete and furnish to the Association for comment by September 30, 1986
its long-term development plan, and would thereafter and annually until
June 30, 1990 exchange views with the Association on the updating of the
plan.
66.       After a review of SNELts investment program (1984-1992), the
Association recommended that it be scaled down from US$1,750 million to
reflect reasonable growth in demand for electricity and available local and
foreign funds. Awaiting the recommendations of the long-term development
plan, the Government, SNEL, and the Association have agreed on an
indicative investment program totalling US$700 million equivalent over the
1986-1992 period. This revised program would be kept under constant review
in the context of the preparation of the long-term development plan
Z/  The draft agreement stipulates that SONATKAD will act as SNEL's
purchasing agent for: (i) goods common to various public enterprises
(so as to promote bulk discounts and equipment normalization), and (ii)
contracts specific to SNEL estimated to cost more than US$3 million.
The USO3 million threshold would give SONATRAD a limited number of
large contracts in 1986 and it will be reviewed every six months. SNEL
will purchase directly for its other needs. SONATIAD will play an
audit function for purchases by SNEL on its own account.



- 20 -
(para. 65). In particular, Government, SNEL and the Association would
examine and exchange views on the timing and financial impact of the
electrification program of Kinshasa, taking into account, inter alia, the
results of the study nn household energy needs.  Before undertal'ing any
investment exceeding the equivalent of US$5 million, SNEL would furnish for
the Association's approval a justification that the investment is least
cost and has an assured financing plan which spells out SNEL's and
Government's obligations for financial charges, including debt service,
operation, maintenance, and depreciation.
67.       Bank Group Experience in the Sector.  The Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (CR 1224-ZR; April 1, 1982; USS 19 million) was the
Bank Group's first lending operation in the energy sector. The project is
co-finauced with the Belgian Government and the French Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The project (rehabilitation of the hydro
generators and transmission system, maintenance for the Shaba region, and
technical assistance) aims at ensuring an efficient supply of power to
Gecamines. After start-up delays, the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. Rehabilitation works are now well advanced and have
revealed the need for supplementary rehabilitation and replacement which
exceed the provisions for unforeseen repairs made under Credit 1224. The
necessary financing for the supplemental work has been included under the
project proposed in this report. In addition to rehabilitation, the Shaba
Power Project addresses the development of SNEL as an institution, but its
physical and financial aspects are limited to the Southern Region. Project
implementation together with the joint Bank/UNDP Energy Assesment has
helped establish a fruitful dialogue with Government and SNEL on energy
issues.
68.       Rationale for Involvement.  The Kivu Region in eastern Zaire
shares an interconnected power network with Burundi and Rwanda which is
supplied primarily by Zaire's Ruzizi I hydroplant and several smaller
hydroplants in Rwanda and Burundi.  To meet growing commercial and
household demand, the supply of power to this network will be expanded over
the 1987-9U period through the construction of Burundi's Rwegura hydroplant
and the joint effort of the three countries to further develop the
potential of the Ruzizi River. In 19%2, the Association approved financing
for the Ruzizi II hydroelectric Project (Credits 1419-BU, 1420-RW and
1421-ZR), recognizing that regional development offered the least-cost
solution to the needs of the two countries and Zaire's Kivu Region. It was
also realized that in order to make optimal use of the power from Ruzizi II
and within the interconnected network, the three national transmission and
distribution systems would require rehabilitation and expansion. IDA
financing for this purpose is being provided under the Rwanda Power Project
(Credit 1495-RW) and the Burundi Power and Transmission Project (Credit
1593-BU). The use of IDA funds to rehabilitate and expand the Kivu
Region's transmission and distribution system and renovate the Ruzizi I
hydropower plant would complete the second phase of the regional
development effort by increasing the availability of power to Kivu and
making supply more reliable to the interconnected network as a whole.
IDA's involvement would thus foster least-cost power planning and



- 21 -
development through regional cooperation, as well as have an impact on
power tariff policy and institutional streugthening in the three
countries. The proposed project would also help finance other priority
rehabilitation needs outside the Kivu region (supplemental work which
proved necessary when the units of the Shaba Power system rehabilitated
under Credit 1224-ZR were opened, and urgent repairs of the Inga complex).
PART IV. THE PROJECT
69.       The proposed project was appraised by the Association in November
1984. The project was prepared with the assistance of consultants financed
by a US$440,000 equivalent advance under the Project Preparation Facility
(P-246). Negotiations started in Washington on July 2, 1985 but could not
be completed until April 30, 1986 after clarification of the role of
SONATKAD (the procurement agency) and an updating mission in March 1986.
Mr. Kasongo Mutuale, Ambassador of Zaire to Washington, led the Zairian
delegation. A report entitled 'Staff Appraisal Report, Zaire, Second Power
Project', No. 5706-ZR, is being distributed separately. A supplementary
data sheet is provided in Annex III.
70.       Objectives.  The project main objectives are:
Ca)   to ensure a reliable supply of electrical energy to the main
interconnected networks (Inga-Bas Zaire-Shaba, and Kivu) through
rehabilitation of existing facilities;
(b)   to make optimal use of the electric energy generated in the Kivu
(Zaire)-Rwanda-Burundi interconnected system;
gc)   to continue the institutional development of SNEL through
strengthening its planning capabilities, developing a rational
tariff system, improving financial policies, and upgrading staff
skills; and
(d)   to improve the reliability of the isolated portions of Zaire's
national network through a systematic assessment of diesel and
small hydropower stations, with a view to determining, in the
context of a long-term development plan, their needs for
rehabilitation, efficiency improvement, expansion, or
substitution and the necessary follow-up actions.
Project Description
71.       The main components of the project are:
(a)    rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydropower plant; rehabilitation
and expansion of the transmission and distribution network in the
the towns it serves (Bukavu, Goma, and Uvira'; installation of a



- 22 -
terminal for interconnection of this network with the. Ruzizi II
110 kV transmission network; and radio-communication equipment
for SNEL's urgent operational needs;
(b)    supplemental rehabilitation of the Shaba system (turbine repairs
in the four generatirg stations, and selected replacement and
maintenance of the various units);
(c)    emergency repairs and operational improvements for the Inga I and
Inga II hydropower facilities;
(d)    technical and institutional assistance to SNEL, including
studies; and
te)    a training program for SNEL's staff.
72.       Rehabilitation and Construction.  After detailed inspection of
the 26 year old Ruzizi I dam, powerhouse and equipment, consultants
concluded, and the Association agreed, that, without urgent rehabilitation,
operations of the plant would become unacceptably unreliable. In addition,
most of the electromechanical equipment would have to be replaced later at
a cost greater than that of the proposed rehabilitation. The project would
finance urgent works for the generating units (cooling system, spare parts
for windings, relays, and signalisation) prior to their complete
overhauling, including the construction of new stator windings for 2 of the
4 units. The project would also finance a phased rehabilitation program
(lines, transformers, antennae) of the transmission and distribution
networks served by the plant (Bukavu, Goma, and Uvira), and the
construction of 83km of medium voltage, and 150 km of low voltage lines.
Finally, the project would finance the installation of a terminal to
interconnect the Ruzizi I and Ruzizi II networks.
73.       For the Shaba system, the project would finance the following
supplemental work: (i) further repairs to the turbines, generators,
hydromechanical and electric systems in all four generating stations; (ii)
modernization of the turbine speed regulation systems; (iii) replacement of
the No. 4 unit shaft at the Nseke power station; (iv) repair and
replacement ot the valves at Nzilo and Nseke dams; and (v) additional
installation works and engineering services.
74.       At the Inga complex, limited preventive maintenance for lack of
foreign exchange and underutilization of the overdimensioned facilities
have created serious technical problems which need to be addressed
urgently.  The project would finance the supervision, procurement, and
installation of selected equipment and spares responding to highest
priority needs over the next eighteen months as identified by the panel of
experts financed by the Association under Credit 1224-ZR (civil works
structures, rehabilitation of Inga I units, instruments and equipment to
synchronize operations of the AC and DC systems, and initiation of a
load-shedding program in the Shaba region to minimize disturbance to
Gecamines).



- 23 -
75.       Technical and Institutional Assistance.  SNEL is currently
receiving asistance through Credit 1224-ZR.  Its objectives are to
strengthen accounting and management control systems, to prepare a
long-term development plan, to revalue assets, and to carry out a tariff
study. Technical assistance under the proposed project would continue and
complement on-going efforts, and include: (i) assistance for personnel
management, developing financial policies, promoting commercial activities,
and improvirg procurement and project supervision; (ii) completion and
revision of the long term development plan; (iii) revision of the
revaluation exercises; (iv) audits of SNEL's 1985, 1986 and 1987 accounts;
(v) update of the 1984-1985 tariff study; (vi) audit of the operations of
the Inga-Shaba system and study of the long-term options for the Inga-Shaba
system; (vii) prefeasibility studies for projects included in the
long-term power development plan; (viii) preparation of a contract for the
transfer from the Government to SNEL of ownership rights of assets financed
and presently owned by Government, but operated by SNEL; and (ix) studies
of urban household energy needs, supply and feasibility of various
options. This assistance would be provided, inter alia, by eight experts
whose job descriptions were agreed at negotiations.
7b.       Training.  SNEL's training center at Sanga requires some
rehabilitation, management support and upgrading of the skills of the
twelve instructors. SNEL has recently signed an agreemeat with EDF
International for the services in 1986 and 1987 of a short-term training
specialist to prepare and implement an interim action plan for staff
training (1986-87). These services are financed from the CCCE loan which
co-finances the Stiaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (para. 67). SNEL
would prepare by July 31, 1986, an interim action plan for training
technical personnel as well as managers, consult with the Association on
the proposed master plan, and, no later than September 1, 1986, put the
agreed plan into effect. A long-term Training Master Plan would be
submitted for comments to the Association by November 1, 1986.
77.       Cost Estimates. Total project costs have been estimated at
US$41.9 million, without duties and taxes, and excluding interest during
construction (estimated at US$6.5 million, to be paid by SNEL). The foreign
exchange component is estimated to be US$37.6 million, or about 90 percent
of total project cost. Cost estimates for the consulting services,
technical assistance and training have been prepared by IDA, while the
costs of the other components have been estimated by the consultants who
prepared the project and are acceptable. The costs of consultant services
have been estimated on the basis of existing contracts and prevailing
market rates. Cost estimates are given in March 1986 prices. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been included.   Price contingencies are
based on recent Bank estimates of inflation rates as follows: 1986 - 7.2
percent; 1987-1988 - 6.8 percent; and 1989 - 7.0 percent. The same
percentages for local and foreign costs have been used under the assumption
that the difference between local and international inflation will be
compensated for by exchange rate adjustments. A detailed project cost table
is in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.



- 24 -
78.       Financing Plan.  The proposed IDA credit of US$37.0 million would
cover about 88 percent of the estimated project cost, aud about 98 percent
of the estimated foreign exchange requirement. UNDP would finance the
training activities (US$0.6 million). Of the proceeds of the IDA Credit,
US$3b.9 million would be onlent to SNEL at 8.5 percent interest per annum
for a period of 20 years including five years' grace, with SNEL assuming
the foreign exchange risk. SNEL would also pay interest during
construction, and finance local currency requirements. The remaining
US$l00,000 of the IDA Credit would finance the household energy study, to
be supervised by SNEL on behalf of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The
execution of (i) a subsidiary loan agreement between SNEL and the
Government and (ii) the UNDP agreement would be conditions of
effectiveness.
79.       Implementation.  SNEL would be responsible for the implementation
of the rehabilitation and extension components of the project and would be
assisted by engineering consultants. Works would be carried out by
contractors. Preliminary designs and tender documents would be completed
by September 1, 1986, rehabilitation and extension of the Kivu distribution
network by end-1988, and rehabilitation of the Shaba power system and the
Ruzizi I Power Plant by end-1989. SNEL would complete and furnish to the
Association for comment, by September 30, 1986, a systematic review of its
needs for rehabilitation of the physical facilities, improvement in
efficiency of operations, and substitution feasibility between diesel and
hydroelectric stations. The Project implementation schedule has been
agreed.
80.       Procurement.  For items of a proprietary nature, particularly for
the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I, Shaba, Inga I and Inga II plants, SNEL
would negotiate directly with the original manufacturer for the supply of
this equipment, its installation, and all the necessary guarantees. The
total cost of items to be purchased in this manner would not exceed
US$5 million. Nevertheless, attempts would be made to obtain as broad a
response as possible for the supply of this type of equipment. Other
materials, equipment, and installation services would be procured in
accordance with the Association's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Procurement for cofinanced items would follow the colenders'
normal practices. Consultants would be selected and employed following the
Bank Group's guidelines. A procurement table can be found in Annex IV.
81.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed
over five fiscal years to finance:
(a)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for rehabilitation and extension of the Kivu
transmission and distribution network and the interconnection
terminal to Ruzizi II;
(b)   100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures for
materials and works for the rehabilitation of the Huzizi I,
Shaba, Inga I, and Inga II hydroplants;
(c)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for radio communication equipment; and



- 25 -
(d)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for engineering services,
technical assistance and studies.
The Project would be completed by June 30, 1990, and the closing date would
be December 31, 1990. The disbursement profile does not differ from
standard power project profiles since funding covers mostly rehabilitation
and extension of transmission and distribution networks, and technical
assistance, with virtually no construction where delays are usually
incurred.
82.       Parts and equipment urgently needed for the rehabilitation of the
hydroplants and the distribution network in Bukavu and Goma would be
financed retroactively for a total amount not exceeding US$600,000
equivalent, for work posterior to August 1, 1985. All claims would be
fully documented except for claims relating to any contract or purchase
order whose value is less than US$20,000, that would be submitted under
statements of expenditures. The documentation for these claims would be
held in SNEL and made available for inspection by the Association. In orde-r
to expedite and facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would -be opened
in a financial establishment acceptable to the Association.
The Association would deposit an amount of US$1 million equivalent in
foreign exchange.  All IDA financed expenditures would be financed under
the Special Accounet, uless otherwise agreed by the Association.  The
Account would be replenished monthly.
83.       Auditing and Reporting Requirements.  SNEL is a public sector
enterprise and 'as such is required to prepare accounts according to Zaire's
general commercial accounting standards. SNEL would continue to have its
annual accounts and financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association for submission to the Association, 6 months
at most after the end of its financial year. SNEL would prepare progress
reports and a project completion report in a form acceptable to the
Association.
Benefits and Risks
84.       Economic rates of return (ERR) have been calculated for the major
components of the project, benefits have been based on electricity pricing
principles set forth in paragraph 59. The overall ERR, covering 70 percent
of project costs, has been estimated at 9.5 percent and is acceptable. The
ERR is sensitive to increases in costs and delays.  For the rehabilitation
of the Kivu network, because the proposed project is an important component
of a regional program (para. 68) designed to provide electrical energy to
the Great Lakes Region (Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire-Kivu), an economic rate
of return (ERR) was calculated on the total investments for electrical
energy in the Region, and is 9 percent: This rate is acceptable as power
tariffs do not capture the full benefits of the project. When taking into
account the economic benefits from the use of hydropower rather than diesel
generation, which some 15 percent of consumers would buy, the ERR increases
to 11.5 percent. These rates of return are comparable to those for the
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project (Staff Appraisal Report 4303
EAP; May 1982). For the Shaba system, the ERR was calculated at 16 percent
for the original Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Staff Appraisal



-26-
Report No. 3400-a-ZR of March 15, 1982). It was recomputed to take account
of the costs and rate changes in the intervening period and of the
additional work proposed and is now estimated at an acceptable 12 percent.
85.       No negative environmental effects are anticipated.  The physical
risk associated with the rehabilitation and extension components of this
project is small. Bids would be received after Board presentation, but as
the contracts would cover routine material and equipment and erection
services, the risk of cost overruns is small. The main risks are linked to
the evolving nature of SNEL as an institution, and would be alleviated by
provision of competent consultants to assist the company.  An additional
risk relates to the Government's willingness to maintain a rational
investment planning and pricing policy for the sector. Government has
recently demionstrated its commitment to improving the current situation by
seeking, and responding to, the Associationts advice in the context of the
Energy Assessment and of our continuing dialogue with Zaire.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.  I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed IDA Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 29, 1986



- 27 -
ANNEX I
.A a 1-   i                                  Page  I of  6
ZAIRE                  - SOCAtL umOIC*TOsq fAtS SNERT
ZAIRE                                *uIRKCEg  CoUps (4E1IJTED aua) I
'aST                     (MST NE'?a ESTMATP: lb
R(CbJ          LIN tlCOe AFRICA          StMOLl  thut
tIndk      tiwt?  EMTDLIATdO.        sUor" or SAN5*M       AVEICA S. uV SAKARA
AURA          sqwzSAU t. @0
iTOTL                             2345.4      2345.6      2341.4
ACRICULIURAL                       146.4       151.2      135*.
cWP PER CAITA Cuss)                     ..          ..        170.0              236.4                   1063.6
ENEMY C0NH5TIO  PER CATA
ctILOCnAS or OIL sQUIVALENT)        65.0        50.0        82.0              62.3                     5631.
POULATION AND VITSAL StAtSTICS
POrULATON.NEm-ZAR (muusamu)  17754.0         21*38.0    29671.0
URBAN rornLATtau CZ or oTAL)        15.7        21.6        3P.0              20.1                      32.0
POPULATION PROJ EClUUIS
PULATION IN WAR 2000 (HILL)                               49.9
STATtONARY POPULATION C.tLL)                             145.0
POPULATION WNSNM                                           1
POPULATtON DENS ITs
PER so. M.                         7.6         9.2        12.7               33.2                     05.1
PER SQ. I0. ACRI. LAND           121.3       143.1       134.2             112.3                     124.8
POPULATION AGE STNCUE (I)
0-14 YRS                         44.1        44.2        45.4              46.0                      45.6
15-" TRS                          52.3        52.9        51.2              50.3                      51.5
63 AND ABOVE                       2.9         2.3         3.2               2.9                       2.7
POP tAT0ll GROWt RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.0         2.4               2.3                       2.9
UIlA                               ..          5.2         7.6               6.4                       5.1
CR2u1 BIRTH RATE (PER Tt5OUS)       46.3        41.8        #6.0              *7.2                      41.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PO  NHOUS)        24.3        20.3        15.5              17.3                      15.0
CROSS REIPRO0ErtON RATE              2.9         3.0         3.1               3.3                       3.2
FUaL  PULNNPING
ACCETORS, ANUVAL (IHOi..)
USERS (X OF HAlRID WMOi)           3. ..                   3A                3.3                       6.4
FOOD AND NURIO
,SE   or FOOD PMO. PER CAPTrA
(1969-71-100l                      101.0       101.0        35.0              33.3                      SL9
P!R CAPITA SULY OF
CALoRIES CX OF RwUIRIETS)         94.0       IOLA        IOLO               67.t                      96.5
PROTEINS (Catls PER DAY)          34.0       3I.0         35.0              51.1                      55.4
Or WJCN  am7AL AND PULSZ         12.0        13.0        10.0 /c           18.7                      16.5
CHILD CAGES 1-4) CASN RATE          32.3        Z7.2        20.0              23.                       16.6
JEZAl
LIFE EXPECS. AT BIRTH liAuS)        42.9        45.3        50.7              47.8                      52.0
:irAn  MOr. RATE (M THoUS)         150.0       132.0      IU4.D              119.5                     IUd.8
ACCESS To SAAn WATER (iWo?)
TOTAL                              *-         11.0        17.9              27.1                      42.4
URIL*1                             ..         33.0        40.0              63.5                      67.1
vUimL                                          4.0         5.0              19.3                      35.3
ACCSS Tro ENCrA DISPOSAL
C: OF ?0PDLATIOS)
TOTAL                                          5.0                          26.5                      28.9
URBAN                              ..          5.0        ..                45.4                      57.7
RURAL                                          5.0                          20.5                      20.7
POPULATION PEt PP.YSTC           79620.0    30140.0    13940.0 Id          27901.7                   11791.7
PUP. PER NURSING P7RSON           35LC.0      2290.0     1810.0 /d          330IL.                    2459.8
POP. PER HOSPItAL IED
TOTAL                            230.0       320.0       330.0 /d         1273.b                     951.1
URBA.t                            60.0       100.0      150.0 W            425.2                     365.8
RURAL                            770.0      1070.0      2530.0 r          3292.5                    4371.9
AWKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..          ..                 ..                       27.2
aOUszr
AVERSGE S7E OF HOUSWIOLD
roTL                               ..          ..
URRAN                              ..          6.1
RRAL                               ..          ...0
AVERAGE 40. Or PFRSOISIRO7O
TOTAL                              ..          ..
asN                                ..         ..
RUAL                               ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DwELLINGS f1  ELECt.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBMN                              ..         ..
URA                                            . .



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
.     L 9  7^
ZAIRE                  -      SOILL 1UOICATORs K4A SNtEl
ZAIRE                                  nrEFImcE   OUPS (C1ITCD AWEmAa  L
3DI                      ("DST  Cot" S amoa) A
hi?            LOW. I1 N Or AFRICA       WOOLf USIE
1,96A      197uLb irmUThAk          SOUTH or SAHARA       AtFICA S. 0t SA414
w  zwoaT in
AOJIJ3IZIi EUROUENAT RfOS
PK21ARt  TmTAL                    60.0        .0         90.0 I            67.6                      95.7
KIZ                    U..0       110.0      1040* ii            77.6                    10t.b
VDILE                  32.0        66.0       75.0 ff54.9                                 1.2
SECONDARY& fOSIL                  3.0         9.0        23.0 IL           13.5                      17.3
KALI                    4.0        13.0       33.0 J             17.9                     25.0
,3WLE                   1.0        4.0        13.0 h;             9.1                     14.3
VUCATIONAL n OF SECNMW)            26.5         9.6        10.0 IC           13.2                      5.1
PVIIL-TWACEk RO10
PRDIAI                           40.0        43.0        3u.U id           44.9                     41.1
scaoa                            20.0        20.0        21.0 r            27.4                     25.5
PASSUGUR CAUSPKUOIAD  POP           2.5         3.0        ..                 3.A                     20.5
iDANO SECElZRsjTMOUA N P            ..         29.1       *6.8               55.6                    107.8
TV  XWvmRS/TNOUSAD                  ..         0.3         0.4 /f            2.6                     20.8
IUESPAIU ("DAILY WUAL
IUESIrT) CIUULATION
PER TIIOUSMD POPuWATION             1.2        9.2         1.6               5.0                      16.4
CIAM  ANNAL ATrENDANCE/cAITA        0.1         0.1        ..                 0.5                      0.4
LAM NUWE
TOTAL IAWDR bUCK (T113S)          8216.0     9465.0    12616.0
PUPLE (lCEIaT)                   46.4        44.5       42.2               34.2                     36.2
AGKICWLTURZ (PERCENT)            83.0        79.0        75.0 If           77.5                     54.5
INSTRT (PERET)                    9.0        11.0        13.0r              9.7                     18.3
PARTCIATION RATE (Pxw)
TOTAL                             46.3       43.7        39.9              39.3                     36.8
KAL                              51.9        69.8       47.3               5.9                      47.1
111AlLE                          41.2        38.0        33.4              26.1                     27.2
Z-OKIC DrnDECT RUATIO                1.0        1.1         1.2               1.3                      1.3
loom uiinIw
PErII  OF PRIVATE DCOE
RECiED n
EigUi  SX OF LOSEOLDS              ..
WIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
LOUEST 20 O0 WoUSEoLDS           ...
LoSST 4020 oOUSOLD                 ..         ...
Pm  T  -
ESTDMTED A"SOLUTE PVEY INCOE
L7VYL (USS PER CAPITA)
URnt                               ..         ..          ..              165.5                    590.7
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               95.0                    27S.3
ZSTRtALED REIATIVE POVERIT IIICOME
LEML (USS PE CAITA)
URtW                              ..          ..          ..              113.1                    545.6
WRtAL                              ..         ..        43.0 Ic            67.6                    201.1
ESTRATIW POP. ELOW ASOLUTM
POVERTY INCOE LEVEL (C)
UN                                 ..         ..          ..               36.6
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               61.8
MO  AVAILAJE
IWD APPLICAU.E
N0 TE S
I    bhe grasp average. for each nditcator are populatiow-m  Uted aritbetic mans.  COvera  aF couantries
-ong the indicators dapends On avallabl3ty of data ad La not snlfor_.
lb  Unlear othewls. noted, 'Data for 1960r refer to any year betweer 195v and 1961; DatL for 1970" be reen
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Nat Recant stlmte betimen 1981 end 1983.
1c 1977; Id 19/9; I. 1978; If 1980.
JUlE. I9B5



-29-                                        ANNEX I
Pnpo  I nf 6
DERNmONS OF SOCLAL INDICATORS
Notes. Although hedata aedrawn from oumn geally juded the not authoritative and reliable it should also be noted that they my not be interntiionally
comprable beause o the lack of standardized deiti and concpta used by different countris in colcting the data. The data art nonelheless ueful to
describe orden of magnitude. indic te rds, and dhamctize eatin major difrnc between countries
The ulef-n poups are (1) the sme country poup of the subject country sad (2) a omuntry group with somewhat higher averae income than the country
gpp ofthe bjectcountry (xapt for'HiH Income Ol Exporter" group where Middle Income North Africa and Middle Eat" is chose because orstronger
odoiulturd aainitie). In the refience group data the avrges are population weighted arithnctic men  for each indicator and shwn only when majority
ofthe countie in a oup hu data for that indicator Since the coverage ofcountries anng the indicator depecn on the availaility ofdata and is not uniform
caution must beexeried in reating averages ofone indicator to mther. Tese avera  ae only useful in coumpaing the value orone indicator at a time among
the country and rerence omupL
AREA (thousand sq.kn.)                                          Crudk Iieh Rate (perthousnd)-Numberorlive births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland watcrs;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960,1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crh Death Rate (per thsJasud)-Number or deaths in the year
A    sgiricakral-Fstimate of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
peranently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Grss Reproducton Rate-Average number ofdaughters a woman
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she cxperiences
present age-specific fertility ratcs; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estimates at current        in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices cakulated by same conversion method as World a    anil Pauia,-Accepers, Ammo! (ehouands1-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program.
consumption of commrcial pfimary energy (coal and lignite,     fdy Pasia-Users (percest of marid uroae-The pec-
petroleum, natural gas and hydrr*. nudear and geothermal ekec-  tage or married women ofcbild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. WOmen
1982 data.                                                     ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Foald Puplatia, Mid-tYear (housamur)-As of July 1: 1960, 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
UrbmPophWo  (pecen oftora)-Rtioof urban to total     Index of Food Prodmnion Per Ciapita (1969-71 = 100)-I odex ofpUr
uat bini   efpn        t of otu-Ratio Of may     t cota        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excudes animal feed and see fo agiulue Fodcmmdte
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodidtiesed or ariculture. Food cofmditr)
Populaton PIejeciou                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  exduded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Starting with infornation on  vegetabes fruits. nuts. sugar.ane and supr beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national avenge producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalizd  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Cap  Spp      C rs (peremt ofrequmrements)-Comput-
Szationary popuaton-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talty rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Nd supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdudc animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death mte. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution ofpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     wasteathouseholdlevet 1961. 1970and 19S2data.
Population Monenrwn-ls the tendency for population growth to   Pr Capita Suppjly of Proein (grace per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 gr-sns of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams ofanimal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pep ,gj  D,,*ty                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total area; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                Per Capita Prein Sippy Fres ANIDI and Pulse-Protein supply
Per sq.km agrkiultura land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
landonly, 1960.1970,and 1982data.                              1970and 1977data.
Populatior Age Strnr (percast)-Children (0-1 4 years). work-   Child (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per trousand)-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (I5-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from Eifec tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popultion Growt Rare (perceser,-total-Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEAbIIH
Popous Growt Rate (percemr)-uhaur-Annual growth rates          Lie Erpectawy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-30 -                                            ANNEX I
Page4 of 6
at the time or of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life:  Pupli reacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total studentc en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lufuuw Mortarity Rate (per thousand)-Number of infants who die  teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Accs to Safe Water (percet of popidadon)-toral, urbn, axd      Pasenger Cns (per thomsd popuatiou)-Passenger cars coi-
ruraL-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; exdudes ambul-
acces to safe water supply (includes treated surrace waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Receirs (per thousand ppuladon)-AlI types of rceivers
borehcs, spnngs and sanitary wells) as pentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a pubc fountain or standpost  excludes un-liensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparble since most countries abolished licesing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members orf the
houselhold do not have to spend a dispropontionate part of the day  TVRecen eics (per thusandpop ulution;V receives for broadcast
in fetching the famly's water neets.  -        to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
in fetching the family's water ncds    .                       receivers in countries and in years wben registration of TV sets was
Access to Excrete Disposl (percent of poplwtrion)-total, urba,  in   ct
and rural-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  pcpPer Crcuate (,per trhoxad pepul)soh)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least four tines a week.
Populti per Physician-1opulation divided by number of prac-    Cma An_ Atendace per Capita per Yerased on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PopuNtiom per Nursing Person-Population divided by number of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing maile and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
r_pera  n     a  nursig   airc                                 Total Labor Force (shousands4(-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their reive number Of     cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
htosptal urban. availablpublic and private, general andt speciaof  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in pbianprvt.ecalndsvarious countries are not comparale 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation cente. Hospitals are establishments
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Feaku (percent)-Fcnale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    fo.
however, include health and medical centers not pennanentlv staffed  Agrzatne (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
ofn medical facilities.                                        Indutry (percent)-l-abor force in mining. construction, manu-
Adanissims per Hospital Brd-Total number of admissions to or   racturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwaipo Rare (percent) -rral, aek, mdfaPae-Prticipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. miale and female labor force
Aveae Sila of Household (perso  pe houedol)-total. wab,.    as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
andrral-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO-s
living quarters and their main meal. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-scx structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aveae Numkr of Persons per Room-total, arbat, and rural-       Ecoaommic Dependency Reto-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average numnber of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the vorking age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dweligs wrth Ekctricity-total, urban, and rural-  Parcrage of Total Dspsabke Income (both in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in livingquartersat percen-  Accruing to percentile group, or households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCAT1ON                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjted Earolmext Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primw  school - rotal, male and female-Gross total. male and  levels. and ehould be interprcted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Poverty Ineoeme Level (USSper cpi*a)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income klvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relatire Pover Inco1ie Level (USS per capira)-rban
education, gross enrollnent may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countr's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secovdary school - total. male and female-Computed as above    iving in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Popultion Below Absolae Poverty Income Levd (per-
mary instruction: provies general. vocational, or teacher training  cent)-urban and rua- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years or age correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollment (percent of secandary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL irndustriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projecions Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ZAIRE Economic Indicators
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Annual Growth RIates  (X)
US S Mili;ons             As percent of GDP                 at 1980 prices
1984                          1984                 1913         1984          1986
GDP Market P-ie.s                    49S2.2                       101.6                 0.8           2.8          2.S
CDP Factor Cost                      4872.6                        97.B                 1.4           3.1          2.5
Agr;cultere                       1566.4                        32.0                 2.0          3.0           3.0
rndustry                          1755.0                        38.0                 4.1          2.6           1.6
Other                             1657.1                        32.8                -0.9          3.6           3.1
Not Export  of CNFS                     8.2                         4.1
rmport of CNFS                    2031.8                        36.9                  ..          8.9           2.0
Export of GNFS                    2046.6                        41.0                  ..          4.7          -1.3
Cross Fixed Investment                811.6                        16.2                              6.6          -3.3
Consumption                          4162.4                        77.6                  ..          3.0           4.8
Cross Domestic Savings                819.8                        22.6                  ..           1.6         -6.9
Grose Notional  Savings               483.3                        12. 0                           -27 o           2.7
PUBLIC FrNANCE (Central Government)
Zaire Mi lions                                X of GDP
1983          1984          1986-              1983          1984         1986
Current revenues                      10998          25994        '1356                11.4          14.4         17.2
Current expend;tures                  11459          26193        376s4                11.9          14.6         1S.7
Current deficit                        -461           -:99         3696                -0.6          -6.1          1.S
Capital expenditures                    647           1019          956                -1.1          -O.7          1.1
Overall deficit                       -1108          -1218         2740                -1.1          -0.7          1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1986           1981         1982                :983         1984          1985
Uoney and Quasi-money                3367.3         464A.9       aos7.0                '162        19792         23926
Bank credit to public sector         2329.4         3783.6       7s88.6               10252        13396         14147
eank cred;t to private sect.         1061.1         1435.4       2666.0                3997         5947          9687
Money A Quas;-ffoney ({ GDP)           11.7           11.7         16.S                14.5         10.4          16.0
Consamer Price Idrex :975=10         1 313.3        1813.1       2487.9              4375.3       6854.8        9aS1.3
Arnual cercertage cl1anges
Consumer Pric- Index                                  38.1         37.2                76.e         52.1          30.0
Bank credit to public sec.                            62.4        108.5                30.0         30.7          10.8
Bank credit to private sec.                           36.6         85.7                46.2         52.8          62.9
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average excange rate
prevaling in the period covered.



-  32 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
ZAIRE: Economic Indicators
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
U5 a Millions
1980          1061           192             1983           1934            2986
Exports of Goods A Services               2371.4          1772.3          1668.2         1775.6         206s.0          2006.3
of which Merchand;ia(FOB)          .   2143.6           1499.8         1476.8          1697.3         1893.2          1989.0
Imports of Goods A Servicos               2436.9          2270.1         2036.8          1941.3         1877.8         1886.9
of which Merchandise(FOB)               1761.0          1636.7         1436.3          1329.3         1321.2         1376.4
Private transfers (net)                     -79.4           -3.S            -8.8            3.2          -91.2           -61.1
Current Account Balance
(before rescheduling)                  -291.6         -503 7          -690.6         -349.6          -349.6         -366.3
(after rescheduling)                   -291.6         -460.1          -647.6         -181.7          -136.6         -212.2
Officiat Grants   (not)                    266.8           247.6          160.1           173.2          174.3           169.2
Public Capital      (not)                   -22.1         -168.6         -178.8          -196.7         -296.2          -299.3
Priv.C&pit l(net),Err.& Omiss.               68.6           31.8            91.6          -16.0          102.6           174.2
.SDR Allocation                              20.8            18.9           17.7             0.0            0.0            0.0
Increase (-)in Int. Reserves               -48.2           113.2           35.3            -8.6           33.8            -2.0
Reduction (-) in Arreors                 -1347.1           129.7           380.9         -613.1          -76.9           -61.1
Other Financing                           1629.6           470.7          244.0          1082.9          694.3          477.6
of which Debt Rescheduling               1612.6           371.4           150.1          971.7          477.7          411.4
EXCHANGE RATE
Zlires/USs                   AVG. EXCH. RAITATE (ZIUSZ)
Aug.24,1979-Feb. 22,1980                      2.1                 1980                      2.9--
Feb.22.19860-June 19,1981                     3.1                 1981                      4.4
June.19,1981-Septem.12,1983                   5.6                 1982                      6.8
September 12,1983 [1]                        26.9                 1983                     12.9
February 24,1984                             33.a                 1984                     36.1
1986                     47.0
EXlEANAL DEBT (Outstanding Dec. 1985,Mill.USI)
Medium Long Term        6380.
1981           1981           1982            1983           1984            1985
Debt service ratio                           22.7           21.9            13.9           14.3           26.4            27.7
MERCHANDISE EXPORT (Mill.USS)                1980           1981            1982           1983           1984         1985
Copper                                    1032.5           758.6           790.7          781.2           715.5         697.6
Cebait                                     377.3           158.3          182.8           121.4          226.6          249.0
Dimonds                                     113.8           77.2            76.2          138.9          220.4           222.0
Other Metals                               113.1           115.7            84.2          127.2          166.6            76.0
Coffee                                      163.1          111.8           1065.0         116.6          212.2          189.0
Crud- oil                                  226.1           273.5          274.3           236.6          322.9          369.0
Other                                       157.8          112.9          127.2           115.6          128.2          148.6
Marketing Cost h Adjustments                -39.9         -106.2         -163.6           -40.0            2.1             6.6
Total exports FOB                         2143.6          1499.8          1476.8         1597.3         1893.2         1889.0
(1] On September 12,1983 Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime
consisting of an official rate and a free market rate ,shown in parentheses above.
The two rates were unifiod on February 24,1984; henceforth the rats is fluctuating
and its market price determined in the interbank market were Commercial Banks
can buy and soll for.ign exchange and the Bank of Zaire can intervene to
regulate the market.



_33 -                                 ANEX II
Page 1 of 2
Sr1US  OF EM  (RI  OPERII  III ZAIE
A. SThaMer OF BANK LaS AND MA, CEwITs (As of March 31, 1986)
Ioan or
Credit   Year                                            Amournt in US$ MiUon
Nxmer   Si         Borzwr                           Bank      MiD I/   1kdisbursed
Prior
to June    Wo &    Trasport                91.58 2/
1960     Otraco      infrastrucwure
One Ia  Fuly Disbursed                              100.00
Sixteen Credits FuUy Dishse                                   200.34
796     1978      ZAIR      Otl Palm                           8.48         5.16
902     1979      ZABE      Railays                           20.00         3.99
998     1980      ZAIR       IfUth Dev. Einane                18.50         1.20
1040     1980      ZAIE      sailier Maiz                      11.00         4.18
1089     1981      ZAR       Mlu Iboogo Skgar                 26.40          1.28
1152     1981      ZAIRE      ilaogowidu  Tecmical Assistance  2.90          0.13
1180     1982      ZARE      ONARA !tdeizati                  26.00         12.83
1224     1982     ZAIE       Siaba Poer System  elitaion  19.00              3.73
1241     1982      ZAIRE     Water Suply II                    18.00         3.45
1244     1982      ZAIRE     Agriculture T.A.                  5.00          1.87
1264     1982      ZAIRE     Second Cotton                    11.30          9.85
1273     1982      ZAIRE     Sixth DFC                        21.50          4.56
1290     1982      ZAIRE     Highway V                        43.50         10.85
1325     19&L     ZAIRE      North East Rural Development     13.00          9.58
1335     1983      ZAIRE     Pbrts Rehabilitation             25.00         18.33
1336     1983      ZAIRE     Gecanes T.A_                      7.00          3.93
1409     1983      ZAIRE     Petrolen Sector T.A.              4.50          3.49
1421     1984      ZAIRE     Ruzizi II      eectrlc           15.00         10.78
1475     1984      ZAIRE     Railways II                      26.00         25.95
1492     1984      ZAIE      Seventh DFC                      36.00         23.19
1519     1984      ZARE      Educatio Tedmical Assistle        9.00          6.38
1540     1985     ZAIRE      Tlilia Agricultiral Deelopmet    12.50         12.47
1609     1985      ZAIRE     Seed                              14.90        14.90
A006 3/ 1986       ZAIRE     Sixth Eighway                     30.00        30.00
1608 3/ 1986       ZAIRE     Sxth Highway                     55.00         55.00
Total (less cance.llatiins):               191.58   679.82        277.08
- of which has been repid_ 144.98                     3.48
Total now outstanding:                      46.60   676.34
Amount sold:                    54.47
of whidh has been repaid      54.47
Total  w helid by RBak and IDA, 1/         46.60   676.34
Total  Lkdisbursed:                         0.0    277.08         Z77.08
1/ US doll ar znits for credits 108-R and Oards are auuted at tie rate of Credit
-egotnti OOS dates.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kirgdm of Belgiin-
3  Signed but not yet effective.



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. SCka1        OF IFC INESDEaS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                             hozt in US$ MiLlons
Year           aBJgar                BusineSs    low   Eut   Total
1970     Soci&A Fienaridre de        DFC          -      0.8     0.8
Dkveloppemnnt (SOFIE)
1984     Socii  Financire de         DFC          -      0.5      0.5
Dflveloppement (SOFIDE)
1985     Soci&t Textile de           Textile     8.3    0.6      8.9
Kisagaran                 CGany
1985     Grands Hotels ch Zaire      Hotel       15.0     -      15.0
Company
1985     (Compary  In foati)         Cot          -      0.1     0.1
y in frmatio)   FatMin
Total gross camitments                 23.3    2.0    25.3
less:                                  -        -       -
- undishbused                    12.3    0.3    12.6
Eld by IE                              11.0    1.7    12.7



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
SUPPLIMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Appraisal Mission:               November 1984
(b)  Post-Appraisal Mission:          April 1985
(c)  Negotiations:                    Started in July 1985 and concluded
in April 1986 after resolution of
procurement issues linked to SONATRAD
(d)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  December 1986
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
(a) SNEL would complete and furnish to the Association for comment, by
September 30, 1986, a systematic review of its needs for
rehabilitation of the physical facilities, improvement in efficiency
of operations, and substitution feasibility between diesel and
hydroelectric stations (para. 79).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) SNEL and the Government would conclude, by June 30, 1987, a legal
agreement to (i) determine ownership of all assets financed by the
Government but operated by SNEL: (ii) establish responsibility for
payment of existing debt service until aU outstandiog loans are fully
repaid; (iii) define the broad objectives of SNEL's tariff policy so
that SNEL's operation and maintenance costs as well as the renewal and
expansion of SNEL s assets are covered by SNEL's own resources; and
(iv) transfer the Inga II hydro plant and the Inga Shaba line to SNEL
at a transfer price based on their value in use (para. 45).
(b)  SNEL would, beginning in 1986, cover from its own resources -11
onerati   and maintenance charges associated with the Inga II hydro
lant axd Inga-Shaba transmission line and, beginning in 1987,
reimburse over a ten-year period, a portion of the original debt
related to construction of the Inga II hydro plant corresponding to
its value in use (para. 45).
(c) SNEL would (i) take all necessary measures including the adjustment of
its tariffs, to produce for each of its fiscal years beginning in
1986, funds from internal sources equivalent to about 30 percent of
the annual average of capital expenditures incurred or to be incurred
during that year and the next two fiscal years; and (ii) review before
June 30 in each of its fiscal years, on the basis of forecasts



-36 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
satisfactory to tne Association, the adequacy of its tari.lfs to meet
the requirement for cash generation against cepital expenditures and
furnish to the Association a copy of the review upon its completion
(para. 57).
(d) SNEL's receivables would not exceed 4 months' sales by end-1986, 3
months' sales by end-1987, and 2.5 months sales by end-1988 and
thereafter. To bring receivables down to these levels, SNEL and
Government would agree on an action program acceptable to the
Association. Submission of the action program would be a condition of
Credit Effectiveness (para. 60).
(e) While Government would bear debt service related to the Inga II
hydroplant, and Inga-Shaba line antil outstanding loans are fully
repaid, SNEL would reimburse Government over a ten-year period
beginning in 1987 the portion of the original debt incurred for the
construction of these facilities corresponding to their value in use
when transferred (para. 60).
(f) Government and SNEL have agreed that all grants, credits and loans
cl,tained by the Government for the purpose of financing SNEL's
1985-1992 investment program would not, without the Association's
prior consent, be on-lent to SNEL at less than 5 percent interest and
that the foreign exchange risk would be assumed by SNEL. In addition,
SNEL would not incur debt unless the internal cash generated for the
twelve months preceding incurrence of the debt is at least 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding year (para.
bi).
(g) SNEL would complete and furnish to the Association for comment by
September 30, 1986 its long-term development plan, and would
thereafter and annually until June 30, 1990 exchange views with the
Association on the updating of the plan (para. 65).
(h) Before undertaking any investment exceeding the equivalent of US$5
million, SNEL would furnish for the Association's approval a
justification that the investment is least cost and has an assured
financing plan which spells out SNEL's and Government 's obligations
for financial charges, including debt service, operation, maintenance,
and depreciation (para. 66).
(i) SNEL would prepare by July 31, 1986, an interim action plan for
training technical personnel as well as managers, consult with the
Association on the proposed master plan, and, no later than September
1, 1986, put the agreed plan iato effect. A long-term Training Master
Plan would be submitted for comments to the Association by November 1,
1986.



_ 37 _                          ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Effectiveness Conditions
Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between SNEL and the
Government (para. 78);
(b) the execution of UNDP agreements (para. 78); and
(ce) the submission of the action program to reduce the level of SNF.L's
receivables to specified levels (para. 60).



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Procuremnt M4ethod al
(USs thousand)
Bank Guidelines            Other Cf            Disbursements
Project Items b/                     ICB      for Consultants  LCB      Methods     Total  from IDk Credit
1. Rehabilitation of the
Ruzlai I poDwr plant         7,920 (7,320)      -           -          -         7,920)  100I  of foreign or
90X of total
2. Rehabilitation & extension
of the Kivu netmorks
- Bukavu                     8,530 (7,650)     -            -          -        8,530)  100l   of foreign
- Goma                       1,730 (1,550)     -            -          -         1,730)  or 90Z of total
- Uvira                      1,330 (1,200)      -           -          -         1,330)
- Kiliba                     1,735 (1,556)     -            -          -        1,735)
3. Radio-com.mication
equipment                      100    (90)      -           -          -          100   100 of foreign or
90Z total
4. Supplementary material,
equipment and works for the
Shaba Power System
rehabilitation                1,590 (1,345)  300 (250)       -   4,038 (3,379) d/5,928   100 of foreigm or
901 total
5. Emergency repairs and
operational improvements
at Inga I and Inga II                      1,200 (1,000)        1,000  (800) el 2,200   100 of foreign or
901 total
6. Engineering services el        -          2,760 (2,670)   -       -             2,760   100l  of foreign
7. Technical assistance
and studies                              8,849 (8,072)    -       -            8,849   1001 of foreign
8. Training                                       -           -       818 (118) el   818   100% of foreign
Total                     22,935 (20,711) 13,109 (11,902)  -   5,856  (4,297) 41,900
aJ  Figures in parentbeses are the amounts proposed to be financed by IDA; totalling US$37.0 million.
b/  Estimates of costs including contingencies; engineering services shbow  separately on item 6.
c/  Inclding feasibility studies and preparation of bid specifications carried out under PEF.
dl Items of proprietary nature to be supplied by the originadl umfacturer, method already approved for
CR 1224-ZR: plus additional wDrks by the general contractor waich wis selected according to Bank gaidelizu
e/  Items of proprietary nature to be supplied by the original manufacturer.
fJ In accordance with UNDP guidelines.



IBRD 1898
ZAIRE                      IC                                         CENTRAL  AFRICAN  REP.                               i                       SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT                           '            CT
SL  Pr wATE 
_ c u    Etkn  Hydaopsr PbFI                                       fo tl1
FhYft Po          l mn. Ff  5tEOF
_               PToloF.ld HY&qFo,F PbFFF                        Sl           |                   f                  -,  
MEoIsFg ThP-Pl .   PI... C-
-   VDC Png-Shob.
= 220 kV
50-70 kV                                                                               A-
-      PosoFdTFFhvioL; , ,   XXt. .                                                __ 
FOOT GDIL  /00000                    /     -W-             f /  z        -
*     F                   IFIILITAIIOOOFU jZI  I  ...........   V1  r  n01SQ.,i_                                                      
*  REHA,L,TTI,ON OF TUEOISTRIFUTION__j ,E31tUAD
T ]                                                                            w w ae e p 15  RWUGANDA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '  I- \ oFjI    5        '- t
Cof.. Pp.Paon-'                                                                -                                                                             RAD'
A                         i       \              (                                              -                           I T
OF THE CONGO                                            I_             \ -                  -                -                  (
t:                   Fi00 \S r EOOS                    1                                          IX
l  N   SInsH   ANGOLA              K ANGOLA                  i                         \
-: -                                                  Lik7.i !   {,,   _   , .......ZAMBIA
0 t____Sj ! ,_ _ _.d ~~~~-J



