O FF ICUlAL
CREDIT NUMBER 17 12 ZR
Project Agreement
(Second Power Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
SOCIETE NATIONALE D' ELECTRICITE
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE TRADING
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1712 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               Z, 1987, among the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A SOCIATION (the Association) the
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNEL) and the SOCIETE NATIONALE
DE TRADING (SONATRAD):
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zaire (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 37,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SNEL and
SONATRAD agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in this Ag,reement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SNEL, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to SNEL on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SNEL and SONATRAD, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SNEL and SONATRAD declare their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to


﻿-2 -
the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic,
engineering, commercial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SNEL and SONATRAD shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association, SNEL and
SONATRAD.
(c) SNEL and SONATRAD shall not modify or deviate from the
Purchasing Agreement without a prior exchange of views with, and
the approval of, the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SNEL or, where appropriate, SONATRAD, shall
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of
the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. SNEL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SNEL shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SNEL and SONATRAD shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿- 3 -
(b) SNEL and SONATRAD shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by SNEL or by SONATRAD of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SNEL
and SONATRAD
Section 3.01. SNEL and SONATRAD shall carry on their respec-
tive operations and conduct their respective affairs in accord-
ance with sound administrative, financial, economic, technical,
commercial and, in the case of SNEL, public utility, practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers,
Section 3.02. SNEL shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and economic practices.
Section 3.03. SNEL shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SNEL shall, by December 31, 1987, complete
the implementation in the Kivu Region of its improved program of
customer listings and of collection procedures.
Section 3.05. SNEL shall: (a) exchange views with the Asso-
ciation on its long-teiff development plan during its preparation;
(b) furnish such plan to the Association by September 30, 1987
for comment; and (c) exchange views thereon with the Association
annually until June 30, 1990.
Section 3.06. SNEL shall complete and furnish to the Asso-
ciation for comment by September 30, 1987, a systematic review
of its needs for rehabilitation of physical facilities, improve-
ment in efficiency of operations, extension 'f its generating and


﻿distribution facilities not -connected to a system, and sub-
stitution feasibility between diesel and hydroelectric stations.
Section 3.07. In connection with the carrying out of
Part I of the Project, SNEL shall furnish to the Association by
September 30, 1987, for exchange of view, a draft long-term
master plan for training activies.
Section 3.08. SONATRAD shall from time to time exchange
views with the Association on its operations and on its partici-
pation in the carrying out of the Project and shall afford the
Association the opportunity to examine any records and documents
relating to such participation.
Section 3.09. SONATRAD shall have its commercial opera-
tions including its purchasing activities, externally audited
quarterly, and shall furnish the reports of such audits promptly
to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SNEL and SONATRAD shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
shall maintain separate accounts in respect of all transactions
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) SNEL and SONATRAD shall:
(i) have   their  respective  accounts  and   financial
statements   (balance   sheets,.  statements    of
income  and   expenses  and  related   statements)
including, in the case of SNEL, the Special
Account, audited for each fiscal year in accor-
dance   with   appropriate   auditing   principles
consistently  applied, by    independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿- 5 -
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the reports of such audits by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audits thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are made from the Credit Account or payments made from the
Special Account on the basis of statements of expenditures, SNEL
shall:
(i) maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account or paid out of the Special Account in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purpose for which they were provided.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. SNEL shall ensure that the charges for power
supplied from the Inga II station to industries in the system of
the Inga Free Zone cover long-term marginal costs when the
installed capacity is fully utilized and investments in addi-
tional facilities for the supply of electricity are required.
Section 4.03. During the preparation of SNEL's long-term
development plan, the Borrower, SNEL and the Association shall
examine and exchange views on the timing and financial impact
of the program for the electrification of Kinshasa, taking into
account, Inter alia, the studies included in Part J of the
Project.
Section 4.04. Upon the transfer to SNEL of title to the
assets financed by the Borrower but operated by SNEL, SNEL shall:
(a) assume the responsibility for their operation and main.-
tenance under conditions which ensure the lowest costs thereof;
(b) adjust its accounts so as to reflect in accordance with
accounting practices acceptable to the Association its acquisi-
tion of title to such facilities; and
(c) pay to the Borrower each year from 1988 through 1997
an amount equal to one tenth of the principal amount of the
original debt incurred for the construction of the Inga II
hydroelectric facilities, multiplied by the rate of utilization
of such facilities during the twelve months immediately preceding
each of such payments,
Section 4.U5. Prior to committing itself to any capital
investment of more than the equivalent of $5 million, SNEL shall
furnish to the Association for approval a description thereof
including its economic and financial justification and proposed
financing plan indicating the sources of funds and the amount of
debt service.
Section 4.06. SNEL shall take such steps as shall be
required to reduce its receivables from customers to not more
than four months' sales by the end of 1987, three months' by the
end of 1988 and 2.5 months' by the end of 1989.


﻿-7-
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SNEL shall not incur any debt, if after the incurring of
such debt its internal cash generation for the twelve-month
period next preceding the incurrence of such debt would be less
than 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on its debt, including the debt
proposed to be incurred but excluding any debt incurred as per-
mitted under this Agreement. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by SNEL maturing more
than one year after the date on which it is orginally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date, to
the extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding pur-
suant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) "internal cash generation" means gross revenue from all
sources, adjusted to take account of SNEL's tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrance of debt, even though they were not in
effect during the twelve-month period to which such revenue
relates, less all operating expenses, including expenses attri-
butable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or payments in
lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of assets
and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) "debt services requirement" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt; and
(e) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.


﻿-8 -
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SNEL shall, from time to time take, or cause to be taken,
all such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its electricity rates) as shall be
required to produce, for each of its fiscal years beginning in
respect of 1987, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 30% of the annual average of capital expendituresr
incurred or to be incurred during the previous fiscal year, the
current fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
(b) Before June 31 in each of its fiscal years, SNEL
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SNEL on a basis
satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in the preceding
paragraph (a) for the current and next following fiscal year, and
shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon
its completion.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A) the sum of gross revenue from all sources
related to electricity operations, consumer
deposits and cash consumer contributions
in aid of construction, net non-operating
income and any reductions in non-cash working
capital; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to electri-
city operations, including maintenance and
administration (excluding depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges), interest
and other charge on debt (excluding interest
financed under a loan contract), repayment of
loans (including sinking fund payments, if
any), all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes,
all cash dividends and other cash distribu-
tions of surplus, increase in net working
capital other than cash, and any other cash


﻿- 9 -
outflows other than capital expenditures
related to electricity operations;
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed or capital
assets, including interest charged to construc-
tion, related to electricity operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SNEL and SONATRAD thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SNEL and SONATRAD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿- 10 -
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197677 (TRT)
For SNEL:
28-31 Avenue de la Justice
Kinshasa 1 Gombe
B.P. 500
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                   Telex:
SNEL KIN                          21347
Kinshasa
For SONATRAD:
Socift6 Nationale de Trading
Building CCIZ, B.P. 15711
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Telex:
21634 SNT
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of SNEL or of SONATRAD, or by SNEL on behalf


﻿- 11 -
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement may be
taken or executed by their respective Pr6sidents-D614gufs
Generaux or such other person or persons as SNEL or SONATRAD
shall designate in writing, and SNEL and SONATRAD shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
C astern and Southern Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE
By
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE TRADING
By                             R   e    a
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May, 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts  for  purchases  of  proprietary  goods  for  the
rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I power plant may be procured by
direct negotiation with suppliers.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of 1 million Zaires or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 13 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SNEL in the preparation of project and
bidding documents, in evaluating bids, in the supervision of
construction and in carrying out the works under force account
under the Project, in strengthening the management and oper-
ational capabilities of SNEL and in carrying out the studies and
program of training included in the Project, SNEL shall employ
engineering, management and training consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Completion of the long-term develop-
ment plan                                  : Se-tember 30, 1987
Contract awards                               : July 6, 1987
Completion of the systematic review of
its rehabilitation, efficiency,
improvement, expansion and sub-
stitution needs of its small
hydro and diesel plants and
associated networks                        : September 30, 1987
Completion of the draft long-term
Master Plan for Training                   : September 30, 1987
Completion of the customer listings
and collection improvement program
in the Kivu Region                         : December 31, 1987
Transfer to SNEL of ownerships of the
Inga II hydro-electric facilities
and transmission line                      : June 30, 1988
Complete adjustment of SNEL's accounts
in accordance with standard practice
and in a manner acceptable to the
Association                                : December 31, 1988
Rehabilitation of first unit of
Ruzizi I completed                         : December 31, 1988
Completion of the feeder for inter-
connection to Ruzizi II                    : October 30, 1988


﻿- 15 -
Completion of the rehabilitation and
expansion of the Kivu transmission
and distribution networks                 : June 30, 1989
Completion of the rehabilitation of
Ruzizi I                                  : June 30, 1990


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to all Categories, except Categories
(6) and (8), in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
1.0 million dollars ($1,000,000) which is to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by SNEL on behalf
of the Borrower for a deposit or deposits which add up to the
amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) SNEL shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals or in such
minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the basis of
such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts


﻿- 17 -
not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by SNEL out of the Special Account,
SNEL shall furnish to the Association, in support of each
application for replenishment furnished under paragraph 3 (b)
above or upon request of the Association, such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and of
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 18 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, SNEL shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until SNEL or the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
SNEL or the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Asso-
ciation, refund to the Association such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


