OFFClIAL
DOCUMEN'TS
CREDIT NUMBER 1712 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    23    ,1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1712 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    d .   , 1987, between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to receive from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant for additional financing for
the Project equivalent to no less than $600,000 on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered 'ito between
the Borrower and the UNDP;
(C) the   Project will   be   carried  out  by  the  Societe
Nationale d'Electricite (SNEL) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to SNEL the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association,
SNEL and the Societe Nationale de Trading (SONATRAD);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditioas; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the second sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral-part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "SNEL" means the Societe Nationale d'Electricite, a
Zairan state enterprise organized and operating pursuant to
Ordonnance No. 78-196 of May 5, 1978, and Loi No. 78-002 of
Janary 6, 1978 of the Borrower;
(b) "SONATRAD" means the Socifte Nationale de Trading, a
Zairan state enterprise charged inter alia with acting as a
purchasing agent for certain purchases of SNEL and organized and
operating under Ordonnance No. 85-080 of March 7, 1985 of the
Borrower;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Asso-
ciation, SNEL and SONATRAD of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sched-
ules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and SNEL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e)  "Purchasing Agreement" means the convention specifique
between SNEL and SONATRAD dated April 7, 1986, as the same may be
amended from time to time as described in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement;
(f)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the two project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated December 24, 1982 and
May 10, 1983 and June 20, 1985 and October 1, 1985 between the
Borrower and the Ass. 1ation; and
(g) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-seven million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,300,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause SNEL to open and maintain in dollars a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of oae percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each August 1
and February 1 commencing August 1, 1996, and ending February 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on February 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. SNEL is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken cider the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SNEL and SONATRAD to carry out the Project
and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the other obligations of SNEL and SONATRAD therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SNEL and SONATRAD to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to SNEL the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to and withdrawn from the Credit Account or paid


﻿-5-
out of the Special Account under Categories 1 through 6 of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement,
under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and SNEL,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include a term of twenty years
including five years' grace, interest at the rate of 8.5% per
annum and the assumption of the exchange risk by SNEL.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and those of the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall make available to SNEL the proceeds
of the Credit allocated to and withdrawn from the Credit Account
or paid out of the Special Account under Category (7) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to
cover expenditures made for the reasonable cost of carrying out
Part J of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records   and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SNEL
or SONATRAD pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that SNEL and
SONATRAD maintain the Purchasing Agreement in force and at all
times and not modify or deviate therefrom without the prior
approval of the Association.
(b) The provisions of the Purchasing Agreement which deter-
mine the number, value and nature of purchases to be made by


﻿-6-
SONATRAD on behalf of SNEL shall be reviewed every six months by
the parties and the Association with a view to their modification
in the light of experience to date under the Purchasing Agree-
ment.
1RTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1988,
transfer to SNEL, as a contribution to its capital, title to
the Inga II hydroelectric facilities and the Inga-Shaba trans-
mission line at their respective values in use, as well as any
other assets operated by SNEL but financed by the Borrower, as
specified in Section 4.04 (b) of the Project Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding such transfer of title, the Borrower
shall continue to assume the obligation to service all debt
existing as of the date of such transfer and related to such
facilities and transmission line.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that any arrangement for
compensation by SNEL to the Borrower for the transfer to SNEL of
assets operaled by SNEL but financed by the Borrower: (i) take
into account the principles underlying the provisions of Section
4.04 (c) of the Project Agreement; (ii) include adjustments in
electricity tariffs reflecting the additional charges resulting
from such compensation; and (iii) ensure that such adjustments in
tariffs be compatible with the elasticity of demand for electric
power.
Section 4.02. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of any grant, loan
or credit received by the Borrower for the financing of the
1986-1992 investment program of SNEL be made available to SNEL on
a reimbursable basis and with interest at not less than 5% per
annum.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall establish with SNEL and
shall carry out an action plan to reduce the amount of receiv-
ables of SNEL from the State and from municipalities to the
levels stipulated in Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary on its part to ensure that the price of electricity


﻿-7-
furnished to industris in the Inga Free Zone system be deter-
mined as provided in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not modify or permit any
deviation from Ordonnance No. 85-080 of March 7, 1985 as amended
to the date of this Agreement or from the Purchasing Agreement
without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed investment in the sector of electri-
cal energy the amount of which would exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000, including its financial and economic justification,
proposed financing plan, sources of financing and amount of debt
service.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SNEL or SONATRAD shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen wnich shall make it improbable that
SNEL or SONATRAD will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Any law or regulation of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of SNEL or SONATRAD to
perform any of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) the Purchasing Agreement shall have been amended,
abrogated or assigned, or any provision thereof waived, without
the prior approval of the Association;
(e) The Borrower shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of SNEL or for the suspension of any
substantial part of its operations.


﻿-8-
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) in this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or of SNEL to with-
draw the proceeds of any grant or loan made
to the Borrower or to SNEL for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant    to the   terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   The foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
or of SNEL to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower or to SNEL
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement and of SNEL under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower, SNEL and SONATRAD.
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c), (d), (e), or
(f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 9 -
Agreere.nt within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SNEL;
(b) the agreement referred to in paragraph (B) of the
preamble to   this Agreement has been signed by       the parties
thereto; and
(c) the action plan referred to in Section 4.03 above has
been received and found satisfactory by the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SNEL and by SONATRAD, and is legally binding upon
SNEL and upon SONATRAD in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and by SNEL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and upon SNEL in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraphs (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of State of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D6partement des Finances,
Budget et Portefeuille
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                      Telex:
DENFIN                             21161 KIN GOMBE
Kinshasa I
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (wUI)
89650  (WUT) or
197677 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
astern and Southern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Rehabilitation            8,630,000         100% of foreign
and extension of                           expenditures and
the Bukavu and                             90% of local
Goma transmisson                           expenditues
and distribution
networks and
Ruzizi II inter-
connection
(2) Rehabilitation            2,560,000         100% of foreign
and extensions of                          expenditures and
the Uvira and                              90% of local
Kiliba transmission                        expenditures
and distribution
networks and a
branch line for
their supply
(3) Repairs, parts,          12,350,000          100% of foreign
equipment and                              expenditures
installation for                           and 90% of local
Parts A, E and                             expenditures
F of the Project
(4) Radio communi-               90,000         100% of foreign
cations equip-                             expenditures and
ment                                        90% of local
expenditures
(5) Consultants'             10,120,000          100% of foreign
services (except                           expenditures
for Part J of
the Project)


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Refunding of              1,000,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(7) Part J of the               100,000         100% of foreign
Project                                    expenditures
(8) Unallocated               2,450,000
TOTAL              37,300,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (6)
above exceeds the amount due, the excess will be reallocated to
Category (8).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments for expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in a total amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000 may be made under
Categories (3) and (5) for expenditures made prior to such date
but after August 1, 1985; or
(b) expenditures under Category (2) until the Borrower and
SNEL have obtained from the Republic of Burundi rights sufficient


﻿- 14 -
to permit the construction, operation and maintenance in Burundi
of a branch line from the Ruzizi-Bujumbura transmission lines for
the supply of electricity to Kiliba and Uvira.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) make optimal
use of electric energy within the Zaire (Kivu)-Rwanda-Burundi
interconnected system by rehabilitating the existing Ruzizi I
plant and the distribution networks of Bukavu, Goma, Kiliba and
Uvira, by increasing the transmission and distribution capacity
of the network in the Kivu Region; (b) strengthen SNEL as an
institution through better planning, improved financial policies
and training of staff; (c) complete the rehabilitation of the
generating stations and transmission and distribution system in
the Shaba Region; and (d) assist SNEL in operating and main-
taining the Inga I and II hydroelectric facilities and the
Inga-Shaba system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydroelectric facili-
ties.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission and
distribution network for Bukavu and Goma.
Part C:   Rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission and
distribution  network   for  Kiliba   and  Uvira,  and
construction of a 70 kV branch line to supply them.
Part D:   Construction of an interconnection between such network
and the Ruzizi I 110 kV transmission network.
Part E:   Carrying out of repairs to the Southern Region Power
network of SNEL.
Part F:   Carrying out emergency repairs and operational improve-
ments on the Inga I and II hydroelectric facilities.
Part G:   Strengthening of the communications capacity of SNEL
through the procurement and use of additional radio
communications equipment.


﻿- 16 -
Part H:   Strengthening the management and operational capacity
of SNEL through:
1.   the revision of its power development and invest-
ment plan;
2.   the revision of its procedures for fixed asset
revaluations;
3.   the updating of its tariff study so as to deter-
mine the optimum levels and structure;
4.   carrying out an operations audit of the Inga-Shaba
System and a study of the long-term options of
such System;
5.   carrying out pre-feasibility studies regarding the
rehabilitation or extension of plants treated as
priority items in the development plan;
6.   carrying out audits of SNEL's accounts for 1985,
1986 and 1987; and
7.   preparation of a contract for the transfer to SNEL
of the ownerships of facilities operated by SNEL
but financed by the Borrower.
Part I:   Carrying out a program to upgrade the skills of SNEL's
financial, economic and technical staff, through on-
the-job training.
Part J:   Carrying out by SNEL for the account of the Borrower
of studies of urban household energy needs and of the
feasibility of the various options for satisfying such
needs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


