                                        CONFORMED COPY


                                  CREDIT NUMBER 5008-GE




  Financing Agreement

     (Third Development Policy Operation)


                   between


                 GEORGIA


                     and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




          Dated September 15, 2011
                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

Agreement dated September 15, 2011, entered into between GEORGIA (“Recipient?)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for the
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to
this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis,
inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

              ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE II - FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        twenty five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,000,000) (variously,
        “Credit? and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Interest Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to one and a quarter percent (1.25%) per annum.

2.06.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
                                           -2-


2.07.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.08.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                            ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
               of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
               framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
               the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

        (b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
               Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
               achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
               shall reasonably request; and

        (c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
               situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
               of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
               action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

                ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following namely that
        the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
        carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
        macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
        the date of this Agreement.
                                          -3-


                ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Ministry of Finance
        16 Gorgasali Street
        Tbilisi 0114
        Georgia

                                                        Facsimile:

                                                        +99532-262422

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                  -4-


AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.



                        GEORGIA



                        By /s/ Dimitri Gvindadze
                                               Authorized Representative



                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                        By /s/ Asad Alam
                                                      Authorized Representative
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
the Program include the following:

1.      The Recipient has submitted to Parliament results-oriented budgets with a new
        program/subprogram structure and corresponding hierarchy of specific and
        measurable performance indicators for five ministries and reported on actual
        performance against the indicators of the prior year.

2.      The Recipient has submitted to Parliament a public investment program,
        including the complete time profile of project financial information, summary
        project justifications, and physical monitoring indicators covering a majority of
        public investment, and reported publicly on actual versus planned project
        implementation for 2010.

3.      The Recipient has improved the effectiveness of targeted social assistance (TSA)
        by: (a) linking the Social Services Agency (SSA) database with government
        databases for income tax and property in order to review the eligibility status of
        all beneficiaries; and (b) reinforcing newly linked database through
        recertification of TSA beneficiaries.

4.      The Recipient has protected overall coverage of the Medical Insurance Program
        (MIP) targeted to the poor at about 900,000 beneficiaries, while improving
        targeting the poor.

5.      The Recipient has strengthened public stewardship of health sector by enforcing
        internationally recognized coding system and completing data architecture
        required for harmonized medical claims processing.

6.      The Recipient has issued comprehensive procedural guidelines for use by tax
        officers in providing the entire menu of necessary services to taxpayers, as part of
        a program to streamline the tax payment system.

7.      The Recipient has enhanced the risk-based tax audit system so that all planned
        on-site tax audits are selected by the system; increased the number of planned on-
        site audits by at least 50 percent; and reduced the share of control checks to less
        than 40 percent of total (planned on-site audits plus control checks).

8.      The Recipient has further improved the risk management system at customs by
        increasing the share of declarations passing through the blue corridor above 15
                                            -6-


        percent and reducing the share passing through the yellow corridor below 30
        percent.

9.      The Recipient has amended Law on Food Safety and Quality to enable
        application of food safety official control on all food business operators as part of
        reforms in trade-related areas to facilitate access to European and international
        markets.

10.     The Recipient has established monitoring department of GeoStat to ensure more
        effective implementation of internationally recognized statistical methods and
        trained all Geostat staff in the use of statistical packages.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
        Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
        in the table below:

                   Allocations                    Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                        (expressed in SDR)

         (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                        25,000,000

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                         25,000,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
        Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied: (a) with the
        Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) with the adequacy of the
        Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
        agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
                to the Association; and

        2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                                        -7-


               Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
               Association.

E.      Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2012.
                                         -8-


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule



              Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                     (expressed as a percentage)*

On each April 15 and October 15:
commencing October 15, 2016 to and including              1.65%
April 15, 2026
commencing October 15, 2026 to and including              3.35%
April 15, 2036




______________________

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
                                          -9-


                                     APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

                Group            Sub-group             Description of Item
                112                                    Alcoholic beverages
                121                                    Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                       tobacco refuse
                122                                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                                       (whether or not containing
                                                       tobacco substitutes)
                525                                    Radioactive and associated
                                                       materials
                667                                    Pearls, precious and
                                                       semiprecious stones, unworked
                                                       or worked
                718              718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                       thereof; fuel elements
                                                       (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                                       nuclear reactors
                728              728.43                Tobacco processing machinery
                897              897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                       platinum group metals (except
                                                       watches and watch cases) and
                                                       goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                                       wares (including set gems)
                971                                    Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                       gold ores and concentrates)
                                         - 10 -


       (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
               consumption;

       (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
               which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
               agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

       (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
               Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
               United Nations; and

       (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
               collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
               Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
               Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
               action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
               occur.

2.     “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
       General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
       modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

3.     “GeoStat? means the national statistics office of Georgia as defined by the Law
       of Georgia on Official Statistics.

4.     “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
       promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
       referred to in the letter dated June 9, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association
       declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
       requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
       execution.

5.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

       The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
                                      - 11 -


2.   Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
     in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
     accordingly.

3.   “Section 3.02. Service Charge and Interest Charge

     (a)    Service Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association a service charge on
            the Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
            Agreement. The Service Charge shall accrue from the respective dates
            on which amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable
            semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. Service Charges shall be
            computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.

     (b)    Interest Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association interest on the
            Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
            Agreement. Interest shall accrue from the respective dates on which
            amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-annually
            in arrears on each Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis
            of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.?

4.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
     Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                                     - 12 -


            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Financing Payment? is modified by inserting the words “the
            Interest Charge? between the words “the Service Charge? and “the
            Commitment Charge?.

     (d)    A new term called “Interest Charge? is added to read as follows:

            “‘Interest Charge’ means the interest charge specified in the Financing
            Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.02(b).?

     (e)    The term “Payment Date? is modified by inserting the words “Interest
            Charges? between the words “Service Charges? and “Commitment
            Charges?.

     (f)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.

     (g)    The term “Service Charge? is modified by replacing the reference to
            Section 3.02 with Section 3.02(a).
