FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 104a-IN
APPRAISAL OF
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIA
April 26, 1973
La Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =  Rs 7.5 /1
Rs 1              =  US$0.13
Rs 1,000          -  US$133.00
Rs 1,000,000     5  US$133,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AIC  =  Agro-Industries Corporation (Madhya Pradesh)
ARC  =  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
CGWB =  Central Groundwater Board (Government of India)
DTGS -  Directorate of Tubewells and Groundwater Surveys (Madhya Pradesh)
GOI  =  Government of India
LDB  =  Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank
RBI  =  Reserve Bank of India
SCB  =  Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Bank
SEB  -  State Electricity Board (Madhya Pradesh)
SBI  =  State Bank of India
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif season = June to September
Rabi season    =  October to February
Zaid season    =  March to May
FISCAL YEAR (ARC AND LDB)
July 1 - June 30
/1   As of the date of writing, India has not declared a new par value
following the devaluation of -the dollar; the rupee is officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. The Pound is now floating
relative to the US dollar and consequently the Rupee-US dollar
exchange rate is subject to change.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................        -i
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................          1
II.   BACKGROUND  ...........................................         1
A. India ..........                                             1
B.   The State of Madhya Pradesh ...............                2
General Description ............                     2
Agriculture Structure ...............                3
Agriculture Development Priorities
Introduction   ...........................     3
Minor Irrigation ...............               4
Land Development ................              5
Agricultural Inputs and Services ...........         5
Credit Services and Banking ................         6
III.   THE PROJECT        .................................            7
A.   Definition ......................................          7
B.   Detailed Features ...............................          7
Minor Irrigation ...........................         7
Land Development ...........................         8
Project Equipment ..........................         8
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing ....................         8
D.   Procurement .....................................    10
E.   Disbursements ...................................    10
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANIAGEMENIT             .      .     .       10
A.   Introduction    .................. ..................    10
B.   Institutions .......      .............................    11
Agricultural Refinance Corporation .........  -11
Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land
Development Bank ......    ................    11
Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Bank   ......   13
Conmercial Banks ...........................    13
Directorate of Groundwater Surveys ........ .    15
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited India in March/April 1972 and was composed of Messrs. C. H. Walton,
G. Ablasser and H. R. McDonald (IDA) and B. C. Bilbo (Consultant) and a
follow-up mission by Mr. W. H. Spall in November 1972 all of whom contri-
buted to this report.



-2-
Page No.
C.  Lending Terms and Conditions ......   ...............  15
Interest Rates .......... ....................  15
Collateral and Land Valuation ..... ..........  15
Borrowers' Contribution to Investment
Costs and Maturities ...................  15
Lending Policies ............................   16
Accounts and Audit ..........................  16
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS BENEFITS ....  16
Production  .........  .........................  16
Marketing  .......... .........................  17
Prices . .......................................  17
Farmers Benefits .......   .....................  17
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......    .....................  18
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....  ...........  19
SCHEDULE A - Minor Irrigation: Program, Appraisal Criteria and Procedures
SCHEDULE B - Project Lending Terms and Conditions
ANNEXES
1.  Mtinor Irrigation
2.  Land Development
3.  The Madhya Pradesh Agro-Industries Corporation
4.  The Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Table 1  - Condensed Income Statement
Table 2  - Projected Income Statement
Table 3  - Condensed Balance Sheets
Table 4  - Projected Balance Sheets
The Madhya Pradesh State Coonerative Land Development Bank
Table 5  - Condensed Income Statement
Table 6  - Projected Income Statement
Table 7  - Condensed Balance Sheet
Table 8  - Projected Balance Sheet
5.  Project Costs and Disbursements
Appendix 5-1   - Details of Estimated Project Cost
Appendix 5-2  - Breakdown of Minor Irrigation Investments
Appendix 5-3 - Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit



- 3 -
6.   Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
Appendix 6-1   -  Farm Models based on Present Costs and Prices
Appendix 6-la  -  Estimated Unit Crop Water Requirements
Appendix 6-lb  -  Estimated Supplementary Water Requirements
by Farm Models
Appendix 6-Ic  -  Mean Monthly Precipitation
Appendix 6-id  -  Water Utilization by Farm Models
Appendix 6-2   -  Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprises
Appendix 6-3   -  Farmers' Income and Debt Service
Appendix 6-4   -  Estimated Changes in Cropped Area and Production
7.   Economic Rates of Return on Investments
Appendix 7-1   -  Economic Rates of Return by the Types of
Investment
MAP






INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SLTTIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project in the State
of Madhya Pradesh for which an IDA credit of US$33 million is proposed. It
would support a three-year lending program for investments in minor irrigation
and land development.
ii.       Madhya Pradesh is the largest state in India and, compared with
other major states, is relatively backward. To accelerate the pace of agri-
cultural development, the State Government is giving high priority to the
introduction of high-yielding varieties and fertilizers, the installation
of wells and the development of land to permit the more efficient use of
irrigation water on existing surface schemes. The groundwater resources in
Madhya Pradesh are generally adequate to sustain a further program of ex-
ploitation but it would have to be accompanied bv new techniques of analysis
and appraisal by the State's Directorate of Tubewells and Groundwater
Surveys (DTGS) as well as by the banking system to prevent overinvestment a
and overexploitation.
iii.      As elsewhere in India, Madhya Pradesh has an established banking
network which for long-term investments comprises the State Cooperative
Land Development Bank (LDB) and commercial banks. Partly because of the
State's size, however, the system generally is less developed than in other
states and lacks rural penetration. In particular, LDB is handicapped by
a relatively low turnover and an unacceptably high level of arrears. To
meet these deficiencies and optimize the use of existing facilities a work-
ing party comprising representatives of the Agricultural Refinance Corpora-
tion (ARC), the State Government and commercial banks has presented a banking
plan for the Project, which is acceptable to IDA, and will enable the Project
to be implemented properly.
iv.       The Project would assist in financing on-farm investments estimated
to cost US$59.7 million equivalent: US$57.3 million for minor irrigation,
and US$2.4 million for land development. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$2.9 million equivalent or about 5T of total Project cost.
IDA would finance US$33 million equivalent, representing the foreign exchange
component and about one-half of the local currency costs.
v.        Farmers' contributions would range from 20% to 10% of the cost
of individual investments. In the case of loans made by LDB the farmers'
contribution would include their obligatory share capital contribution of
5% of loan amount. The IDA credit would cover 55% of the cost of the total
lending program, the balance of the financing being subscribed by LDB/
commercial banks and ARC. ARC would be the channel for IDA finance and



- ii -
would supervise Project operations. It is already acting in this capacity
for IDA-supported agricultural credit projects in seven other States in
India. 1/
vi.       The IDA credit would be made available to ARC by the Government
of India (GOI) which would bear the exchange risk. About 50% would be repay-
able by ARC to GOI after nine years at an interest rate of 5-1/4% and the
balance after 15 years at 5-3/4% per annum.  ARC would refinance at 6-1/2%'
per annumi the lending operations of LDB and coimercial banks.  Loans to
individual borrowers would bear interest at 9% per annum and would be repay-
able over periods of up to 10 years for ordinary borrowers and up to 15 years
for small farmers as defined.
vii.      Project implementation would be by local contractors and DTGS in
the case of minor irrigation schemes, and by the State Government's agriculture
department engineering wing and contractors for land development. Mainly
local materials would be used. About 43,000 individual small and widely-
scattered farn investments would be made,spread over a period of three years,
and international competition would not therefore be appropriate.
viii.     ARC is competently managed and financially sound while the existing
banking system in Madhya Pradesh provides an adequate framework which can be
developed to provide acceptable lending facilities for the Project. Financial
rates of return would be from 19% to 51%. The rates of return to the
economy are estimated to be from 17% to over 100%. The necessary assurances
having been obtained during negotiations, this Project is suitable for a
credit of US$33 million.
1/   Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Mysore and
Maharashtra.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1968, an IDA mission, with assistance of the FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program, reviewed agricultural credit institutions and farm investment
requirements in selected parts of India and identified high priority agri-
cultural credit projects. Projects in the seven states of Gujarat, Punjab,
Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Mysore and Maharashtra already have
been approved by IDA: this proposed Project for Madhya Pradesh together with
the proposed Project in Uttar Pradesh will bring the total to nine. In-
stitutional credit, partly financed by IDA, would enable farmers to make
investments in minor irrigation and land development and thus obtain
increased production and other benefits from the new high-yielding seed
varieties, fertilizer use and surface irrigation water.
1.02      Bank Group lending for India's agricultural sector (excluding
US$23 million for the Beas equipment project under the Indus Treaty) totals
US$436 million. While earlier lending had concentrated on large irrigation
schemes, the current series of credit projects supports the Government of
India's (GOI) agricultural strategy of giving increased emphasis to farm
investments. With the inclusion of this Project, credit project approvals
would total nearly US$248 million.
1.03      The Project is based on a proposal by the Madhya Pradesh Govern-
ment and follows the pattern of previous agricultural credit projects in
India. It however omits land development at Tawa and Chambal which it is
envisaged would form part of separate IDA projects for those irrigation
schemes. It was appraised in March/April 1972 by Messrs. C.H. Walton,
C. Ablasser and H.R. McDonald (IDA) and B.C. Bilbo (consultant) with a
follow-up mission by Mr. W.H. Spall in November 1972.  This report is based
on the missions' findings.
II. BACKGROUND
A. India
2.01      Since 1965, India has shifted the emphasis of its development
efforts from industry to agriculture. As a result, priority has been
given in recent years to accelerating the introduction of modern agricul-
tural technology through increasing the availability of improved inputs
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in "Economic Situation and Prospects of
India" report number SA-32a of May 10, 1972.



- 2 -
such as high-yielding seed varieties and fertilizers, particularly in
combination with irrigation, and by providing financial incentives to
farmers.
2.02      Although 70% of India's labor force is engaged in agriculture
(providing half of India's GNP) a large proportion of farmers have scarcely
been affected by the recent agricultural advances, while those that have
benefited have been mainly farmers with access to knowledge and capital to
enable them to adopt the modern technologies. A large number of additional
farmers could however take advantage of the new techniques if credit was
made available to them. An increased supply of credit for farm investment
is thus important to the continued growth of agricultural production.
2.03      The Reserve Bank of India has estimated that credit institutions
will require Rs 15,000 million (US$2,000 million) for long-term agriculture
lending during the Fourth Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74) or an annual average of
Rs 3,000 million compared with about Rs 600 million invested in 1966/67.
Short- and medium-term credit requirements would increase by an estimated
11%Z annually rising to about Rs 25,000 million (US$3,300 million) by 1973/74.
Provisional figures show the long-term credit supply for 1970/71 at about
Rs 1,800 million (of which cooperative institutions accounted for about
Rs 1,600 million) and the short-term at Rs 6,000 million. There thus remains
a substantial agricultural credit gap and, if this is to be bridged, India
will need to intensify her efforts to mobilize her domestic resources as
well as increase external borrowings.
B. The State of Madhya Pradesh
General Description
2.04      Madhya Pradesh, situated in the center of India, is the largest
state in the country with an area of 444,000 km2 (about 15% of India); its
population of about 42 million (1971) is about 8% of the all-India total.
Approximately 85% of the population depend on agriculture for their living
and this sector provides 51% of the State's income. Madhya Pradesh, which
only came into existence in 1956 by the amalgamation of three former
states, is administratively divided into 43 districts and 190 tehsils. Its
capital is Bhopal but Gwalior, Indore and Jabalpur are commercially more
important.
2.05      The State mainly comprises a plateau ranging in altitude 200-1,000 m
but with small hill ranges (rising to 1,500 m) in the southern part. It
provides the headwaters for many of India's large rivers; of its seven
major river basins, the Narmada which dissects the State from east to west
is the most important. Soils vary considerably from black cotton which
predominate in the west to the red and sandy soils more prevalent in the
east. Rainfall which ranges from about 700 mm in the north and west to
1,300 mm in the south is concentrated in one monsoon season, mid-June to



-3-
September in which 80-90% of precipitation normally occurs, frequently
with great intensity. There are three crop seasons, the Kharif, the
rabi, and the summer. Temperatures range from 3C in January to 45°C in
May.
Agriculture Structure
2.06      The net sown area is about 18.3 million ha (41% of total) and,
with an average cropping intensity of 110%, the gross sown area is about
20.2 million ha. A high proportion of land is thus not under cultivation,
notably on account of forests (14.4 million ha or 32% of total). About
1.5 million ha (8% of cultivable area) is irrigated by canals (providing
48% of total supply) wells (37%) and tanks and other (15%). Canal irriga-
tion is found mainly in the eastern part of the State and under the Chambal
scheme (para 2.15).
2.07      Approximately 55% of farm holdings in Madhya Pradesh are smaller
than 5 ac (2.3 ha) (12% of total farmland), 40% are between 5 and 30 ac
(64% of farmland) and 5% over 30 ac (24% of farmland). Operational holdings
are often larger than these statistics would imply, since land ownership is
often divided among several members of the same family and farmed as one
unit. This practice also limits the effectiveness of statutory ceilings
on individual land ownership which range between 25 ac for irrigated and
75 ac for unirrigated land.
2.08      Foodgrains account for about 69% of the gross sown area with pulses
23% and other subsistence and commercial crops (notably oilseeds and cotton)
making up the balance. Rice, which is grown mostly in the east under
protective irrigation is the most important single crop (24% of gross sown
area), wheat, grown mostly as a dry rabi crop (18%) and jowar, an important
kharif crop (13%). Production increases from 7.4 million tons in 1968/69
to 8.9 million tons in 1970/71 have enabled the State to become a net  -
exporter of cereals and this together with higher pulse production has
resulted in a total foodgrain increase from 8.9 million tons in 1968/69 to
10.9 million tons in 1970/71; production levels are however critically
dependent on rainfall (e.g., foodgrain production in 1967/68 was 10.1 million
tons). Other significant production figures (1970/71) are oilseeds
625,000 tons, and cotton 37,000 tons.
Agicultural Development Priorities
2.09      Introduction.  Dependence on a single and unreliable monsoon rains
and a generally low level of infrastructure, in part the result of its size
and recent reorganization have made Madhya Pradesh agriculturally one of
the more backward of India's states.  Development efforts necessarily range
widely but priorities are centered on measures which will accelerate the
introduction of high-yielding seed varieties and increase fertilizer use.
Thus, particular emphasis is being placed on increased irrigation through
the exploitation of surface and groundwater resources but, because of its
limited potential, priority is also being given to improving the technology
of dry land farming. As elsewhere in India special attention is now being



-4-
given to increasing the supply of agricultural credit and services to small
farmers.
Hi-nor Irrigation
2.10      Although no overall water resource estimate has been made, repre-
sentative area studies indicate considerable irrigation potential in
Madhya Pradesh. While there is scope for more surface irrigation, this
largely depends on major storage schemes, e.g., Tawa (para 2.16) now under
construction. With a relatively low well intensity (average one well to
30 cultivable ha) and generally favorable groundwater availability, minor
irrigation investments offer good development opportunities which are more
easily realizable. The Directorate of Tubewells and Groundwater Surveys
(DTGS) has, since 1968, been responsible for the State's groundwater
developme t and, with GOI's Geological Survey of India, has surveyed
40,000 km (or about 10% of total area) in eight districts.
2.11      Madhya Pradesh has an estimated 650,000 irrigation wells of which
all but some 1,000 tubewells are dugwells. Except for limited areas of
hard rock with little fissuring, the geology generally provides favorable
infiltration conditions for dugwells while in the deccan trap areas (about
one-third of the State) they are particularly suited to supplementary boring
(to become dug-cum-bore wells). Only 7% of wells are presently energized,
in part reflecting the difficulties of rural electrification over long
distances. Currently som. 25,000 new wells and 30,000 pump sets are being
installed annually.
2.12      As in other states, inadequate technical direction and lack of any
legislation controlling groundwater exploitation has resulted in a low level
of well technology. Madhya Pradesh banks' deficient lending policies and
standards have further exacerbated the problem (para 2.20). In addition to
widespread examples of poor well siting and inadequate attention to well
spacing and density requirements, many wells are unfinished or lack motors,
in part because of outdated regulations which unduly limit farmers' borrowing
ability. These and other factors have led to a very small average irrigated
area (under 0.9 ha per well compared with at least 2 ha possible in
average conditions) while the lov level of income resulting from incomplete
investments have made it impossible for many farmers to maintain loan repay-
ments. Priority therefore has to be given to improving the water discharge
from, and the area irrigated by presently substandard wells which, with
small additional capital injection, could become sound investments. Measures
are also necessary to ensure that new wells avoid repeating past mistakes
and result in the best use of scarce capital and water resources.
2.13      To achieve this, three main improvements must be effected.  First,
the staffing of DTGS needs strengthening so that it can supervise well
development to acceptable standards and criteria as well as extend its
survey capability: to assist in this the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB)
plans to make available to it some experienced staff (para 4.17). Second,
banks need to improve their lending practices so that sound investment
opportunities can obtain adequate financial support. Third, concerned



-5-
governmental authorities and banks need to emphasize the importance of
water sharing arrangements so as to minimize the risk of over-investment
in wells, particularly in areas where small farmers predominate. 1/ Con-
tinuing weaknesses in each of these areas will inevitably result in subecono-
mic investments and, to farmers, financial returns inadequate to service
debt liabilities.
Land Development
2.14      The main emphasis of land development in Madhya Pradesh is on two
major irrigation schemes, Chambal on the Rajasthan border where irrigation
water first became available in 1967 and Tawa on the Namada river where the
dam now under construction is due for completion in 1973. Land development
is also important on the command areas of wells to obtain effective water use.
2.15      At Chambal, little has been done in providing small canals and
field channels and land has been levelled or shaped on only 10% of the com-
mand area. Uncontrolled field flooding, intense seasonal rainfall, lack of
a drainage system and difficult soils have combined to cause serious water-
logging on nearly 60,000 ha and reduce the potential irrigable area falling
within Madhya Pradesh from about 220,000 ha to 100,000 ha. The whole area
requires an irrigation and drainage plan which later could be the basis for
a rehabilitation and development scheme.
2.16      Tawa was appraised by IDA in December 1970 and the proposed project
envisages a command area approach with the integrated development of water
storage, distribution and drainage, land shaping and infrastructure require-
ments. To avoid the problems besetting Chambal, the IDA mission recommended
the release of water from the Tawa reservoir only to the extent on-farm
development was completed (estimated to increase from 7,000 ha in June 1972
to 130,000 ha in June 1976) and for which some IDA financing of land shaping
was included. Civil works procurement differences have so far prevented
project negotiations but it is hoped that the issue may be resolved and
the project proceed. In these circumstances, the State Government's request
for financing 4,000 ha of land shaping at Tawa is not included in this credit
project - an area which in any case is considered too small to meet the
command area requirements of the irrigation scheme.
Yazicultural Inputs and Services
2.17      The projected agriculture growth rate under the State's Fourth
Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74) is 5% annually and, excluding rmajor irrigation
works, about 22% of planned public expenditures (Rs 960 million) have been
allocated to the sector over the period. Since 1968/69 the use of high-
yielding and improved seed varieties has trebled but still only account for
a small proportion of areas sown - viz paddy 5.2%, wheat 5.1%, maize 3.8%.
1/   If one-half of the beneficiaries under the proposed Project farmed
only one ha and did not share or sell their available surplus water
to other farmers, the cost of its minor irrigation component would
have to increase from Rs 430 million (US$57.3 million) (para 3.06)
to Rs 760 million (US$101 million) to achieve the same total irrigated
area of about 110,00 ha.



-6-
Similarly, although fertilizer use has been increasing at more than 50%
annually (1968/69 - 1970/71 from 3.2 to 8.2 million tons) consumption at
about 3 kg per cropped ha is low compared with other states because of the
low level of drylands farming technology and the small area under irrigation.
The Project by increasing the irrigated area would have a favorable impact
on fertilizer consumption.
2.18      Among institutions of higher education, the Agriculture University
at Jabalpur with its six constituent colleges located in various parts of
the State is responsible for agricultural research; four universities,
notably at Sagar, have postgraduate courses in geology and hydrology. A
variety of crop processing and agricultural services including land shaping
at Tawa are the responsibility of State's Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC)
(Annex 3). Elsewhere, land development (e.g., at Chambal), soil conservation
and farm custom services are provided by the engineering wing of the State's
agriculture department and to a small extent by private contractors.
Credit Services and Banking
2.19      Following the Indian pattern, most agricultural lending has been
carried out by the cooperative movement which, in banking, is divided into
the State Cooperative Bank (SGB) for medium- (2-5 years) and short-term
lending and the State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) responsible
for long-term lending (above five years). In recent years, and particularly
since the nationalization of the major banks in 1969, commercial banks have
begun to make loans for agriculture but the volume of this lending is
relatively small.
2.20      The main weaknesses of institutional banking in Madhya Pradesh
are the limited number of branches (LDB and commercial banks combined provide
one branch to 611 km2 in Madhya Pradesh compared with one to 189 km2 in
Maharashtra), the relatively low level of lending by such institutions com-
pared with those in other states, and the different policies and outlook of
the state-controlled cooperative banking system and the centrally-controlled
commercial banks which hitherto have inhibited the extension of an integrated
banking system appropriate to the needs of the rural areas. In particular
the Madhya Pradesh LDB's current volume of lending is substantially less
than that of its counterparts in other states with IDA projects (in most
cases less than half) and the proposed Project would therefore have to
depend more heavily on commercial and other alternative forms of banking
than has been found necessary in earlier credit projects. Additionally,
high overdues in the LDB system necessitate a financial reorganization while
its management also requires considerable strengthening. To meet the
requirements of the proposed Project, representatives of the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation, the State Government and commercial banks have prepared
a banking plan covering the above aspects. This plan is acceptable to IDA
and will be implemented immediately.
2.21      Because of limited institutional facilities, money lenders are
thought to provide a greater proportion (at least two-thirds) of farmers'
credit needs (particularly short-term credit for farm inputs) than in



- 7 -
many other parts of India. Although there is little precise knowledge
about their operations they are reported to charge interest rates of up to
80% per annum, compared with 9-11% from institutions. These figures
indicate that institutions will have to attract a larger proportion of
rural savings and must be encouraged to do so. Until they are able to
make substantial progress in this direction, cooperative institutions in
particular will continue to depend heavily on public sector and external
financing.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The Project is a three year program of on-farm inveetments in minor
irrigation (95% of total farmers' investments) and land development (5%) which
would form part of a lending program in Madhya Pradesh. The lending program,
which under refinance arrangements with ARC would be implemented by LDB and
commercial banks, would involve about 43,000 loans to farmers and cooperatives.
The total Project cost is estimated at Rs 452.2 million (US$60.3 million) and
IDA's contribution would be US$33 million.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
3.02      Investments in minor irrigation would comprise a sum of Rs 430
million (US$57.3 million) for dugwells, dugwell improvements and erergization
in six major river basins encompassing 35 districts of the State (Schedule A).
Although present information does not permit precise specification of the
quantities of each investment to be financed, the sum is calculated on the
construction of 25,000 new wells, the improvement of 15,000 and the
installation of about 29,000 electric and 12,000 diesel powered pumpsets
and about 2,700 persian wheels (Appendix 5-2) (the persian wheel is a
traditional lift device). In the case of electric sets, cost estimates
include Rs 3,000 for each power connection.
3.03      Since Madhya Pradesh does not yet have legislation governing
groundwater use (para 2.12) it is essential that the State undertake pragmatic
measures to avoid the problems of uncontrolled development including over-
exploitation. As a large portion of minor irrigation development is financed
through institutional loans, minimum standards can be introduced through
specific lending criteria implemented through the banking system and
supported by the State. The basis would be by DTGS analysis of integral
hydrogeological units from river basins down to elementary watersheds.
Included would be requirements with regard to density, spacing and irrigated
area, which would permit investments in minor irrigation to proceed under
reasonable control until such time as effective legislation is passed.



- 8 -
Furthermore the effectiveness of individual investments would be increased
through this analysis and through improved appraisal (para 4.22). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the State Government that it
would give its specific support for conditions, criteria and guidelines
regulating groundwater development as set out in Schedule A, not only for
Project investments but for all minor irrigation development under its
direct and indirect control.
Land Development
3.04      Investments in land development would comprise the preparation
(mainly levelling) of about 30,000 ha to take irrigation water from proposed
minor irrigation investments.
Project Equipment
3.05      About 70 pneumatic boring drills with compressors and initial spare
parts are needed to meet the incremental needs of the program. The GOI has
requested reserve procurement in respect of such equipment and financing for
it is not therefore included in the Project. Assurances were obtained that
such equipment will be procured, and in the event of its not being available
locally it will be imported.
C. Cost Estimates and FinancinX
3.06      Estimated Project cost, together with the foreign exchange require-
ments 1/ are:
Rs (millions)          US$ (millions)       Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
Minor Irrigation    409.0   21.0    430.0   54.5    2.8        57.3      5
Land Development
For Well Irri-
gation          17.0    1.0      18.0    2.3    0.1       2.4       5
Equipment                                                                  /1
Well-drilling        4.2     -       4.2    0.6      -        0.6      - -
Total Project
Cost         430.2   22.0    452.2   57.4    2.9       60.3       5
/1   Procurement reserve  (para 3.05).
1/  The value of the rupee is now pegged to the pound sterling which is floating
in relation to the US dollar. The conversion rate used in the cost estimates
is Rs 7.5 = US$1.



-9-
Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 5. Estimates are based on
present prices including a 10% allowance for cost increases, which would
be adequate. As in other agricultural credit projects, no physical contingen-
cy is included. The allowance is based on annual price increases of 5% on
the estimated annual disbursements over the Project period.
3.07      The total cost of Rs 452.2 million (US$60.3 million) would be
financed from the following sources:
Lending                    Total        IDA
Farmers_       Banks/_       ARC         Financed  Credit Funds
% oof          of           %of                       % of
Rs M  Total  Rs M  Total  R  M   Total    Rs M    Rs M  Total
Minor
Irrigation    53.7/2.  12    37.6    9    338.7   79        430.0   239.5   55
Land Develop-
ment
For Well
Irrigation    2.2--  12      4.0   22      11.8   66        18.0    10.0    55
Total Lending
Program       55.9    12    41.6   10    350.5   78        448.0   249.5    55
Equipment
Well            _      _       -     -       4.2  100 -        4.2     -      -
Total Project
Cost          55.9    12    41.6   10    354.7   78         452.2   249.5    55
/1   In the case of LDB, financed by the State Government.
/2   Assumes one-half small farmer borrowers and lending divided equally
between LDB and other banks. Thus through LDB small farmers contribute
5%, others 15% and in addition 5% of investment cost as equity share
in LDB. In other banks small farmers contribute 10%, others 20%.
/3   For purchase by State Government; procurement reserved.
3.08      The proposed IDA credit of US$33 million (Rs 249.5 million) would
finance about 55% of total Project cost and its refinance of the lending
program (Rs 249.5 million) would supply about 70% of ARC support for the
Project (Rs 350.5 million). IDA financing would be based on the foreign
exchange cost plus about one-half the local cost of minor irrigation and land
development investments. IDA financing of foreign exchange items would amou:nt
to Rs 22.0 million (US$3.0 million) or about 10% of its total contribution
while local currency financing would total Rs 227.5 million (US$30.0 million). 1/
1/ This financing plan is contingent on the foreign exchange rate used for
conversion (see footnote to para 3.06).



- 10 -
3.09      The IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOI.  GOI would make
the proceeds available to ARC repayable at the end of nine years with an
interest rate of 5-1/2% per annum in the case of loans to ultimate borrowers
not exceeding this period (estimated at about 50% of the total) and, at the
end of 15 years, with interest at the rate of 6% per annum in the case of
the longer maturities (in each case this is after deducting 114% for prompt
payment). ARC would on-lend the proceeds to lending banks in Madhya Pradesh
at 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding balance and these banks would In turn
on-lend to ultimate borrowers at 9%. This interest rate structure is in line
with prevailing institutional interest rates for agriculture and the other
sectors of the economy. Assurances on these matters were obtained during
negotiations.
D. Procurement
3.10      Minor irrigation and land development investments involve generally
small and labor intensive operations carried out seasonally on widely scattered
farms with purchases spread over a period of three years for which international
competition would not be appropriate. They would be carried out primarily
by hired labor or local contractors and partly by AIC for well boring. Com-
petition among contractors is satisfactory and supplies are adequate.
E. Disbursements
3.11      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over about 3-1/2 years
(Appendix 5-4). Against appropriate documentation, disbursements would be
63% of loans for minor irrigation and land development.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
4.01      Project financing and organizational arrangements would generally
follow the pattern established under the seven existing IDA-supported
agricultural credit projects. The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI)
would be channelled to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) which
would refinance lending by cooperative and commercial banks in the State.
4.02      Institutional banking in Madhya Pradesh presents two main difficult-
ies. First, within the cooperative sector, the Land Development Bank (LDB)
system (which for similar projects in other states is responsible for most
of the lending) has high overdues and its management needs considerable
strengthening. Second, the relatively small volume of LDB lending makes
it tiecessary that a substantial part of envisaged Project financing is



- 1 1 -
channelled through commercial banks. To ensure adequate and suitable banking
arrangements for the Project, a working party comprising representatives of
ARC, the State Government and commercial banks has prepared a comprehensive
plan which is acceptable to IDA. This plan includes inter alia: a program
for the opening of new branch offices, staffing arrangements; assistance to
commercial banks by the Department of Agriculture and DTGS; the likely involve-
ment of each commercial bank in the Project; the establishment of coordinating
committees; and the rehabilitation of the LDB (para 4.09). The implementation
of the agreed plan would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
B. Institutions
Aricultural Refinance Cor pration
4.03      ARC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), is the
channel for the seven existing agricultural credit projects and is therefore
well known to IDA. 1/ It is a competently managed organization and is in a
sound financial condition (Annex 4, Tables 1-4).  However, the spread between
its borrowing and lending rates is narrow and whilst adequate at present to
meet expenses, and after the creation of reserves, and the payment of dividends
on its capital still ailow a profit to be made, it needs to be kept under
review in relation to its volume of lending, particularly if ARC's role is
broadened as recommended in the Agricultural Credit Review Report where its
operating expenses would increase. Its role is important not only as a
channel for development funds but also for its influence on the lending
policies and operational procedures of the agencies it assists. It is there-
fore a suitable institution for the overall supervision of the Project's
implementation. As in previous credits, assurances were obtained that
ARC's accounts would continue to be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA.
4.04      ARC would ensure that all lending banks follow the policies,
terms and conditions agreed with IDA (Schedule B). The execution of a loan
agreement between GOI and ARC acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
credit effectiveness and subsidiary loan agreements between ARC and lending
banks would be subject to IDA approval. ARC would ensure that lending banks
followed the appraisal criteria relating to minor irrigation as detailed in
Schedule A and, subject to consultation with IDA, ARC would not make IDA
finance available to any Primary Bank of LDB whose collection level fell
below 75% of demand (para 4.09). Assurances on these matters were obtained
at negotiations.
Madhya radesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank
4.05      Compared with other states, the Madhya Pradesh LDB, established
in 1961, is of recent origin, responsibility for long-term lending having
been previously with SCB (para 4.12). With six divisional offices, LDB is
1/   Full details of ARC's organization and operations are contained in
Annex 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Appraisal Report No.
107-IN dated April 1973.



- 12 -
the apex institution for 43 federated Primary Banks (one for each district)
and these work in the State's 192 tehsils (district subdivision) through
112 branches. As LDB is the only source of long-term financing for the
Primaries, the relationship is similar to that of a bank head office to its
branches.
4.3)6     LDB's operations are governed by the Madhya Pradesh State Land
Development Banks Act 1966. Its 21 member board includes 14 representatives
of the Primaries, three of the State Governnent and four members ex-officio
or coopted. The Primary Banks with a voting membership of about 75,000
elect their ow-n directors who control operations and appoint staff. In
orier to borrow, a farmer must hold shares in his Primary equal to 5% of
Ais loan: 1,% is retained by the Primary and 4% invested in the equity of
the ape- bank. Loans may be granted for most medium- and long-term invest-
ments in agriculture.
4.07      LDB obtains its resources fromi share capital contributed by the
Prir-ary Banks and State Government and by the issue of debentures. As of
June 30, 1971, paid-up share capital was Rs 13 million of which the State
Government's contribution was Rs 6 million. Total debentures outstanding
at that date ariounted to Rs 216 million of whlich only Rs 18 million repre-
sented special debentures which are used by ARC for refinancin- LDBs.
4.08      Although LDB has maintained a high rate of growth (its portfolio
of loans and advances inc,eased more than three times from Rs 57 million to
Rs 199 million over the five years 1966/67 - 1970/71) the increase has
been fronm a small base and its current volume of lending (Rs 55 million
in 1970/71) is relatively small compared with other states.  Allowing for
the need to introduce improved lending procedures and achieve a satisfac-
tory level-of collections, it is unlikely that LDB's lending capacity, having
regard to its on-going and ordinary debenture programs, could }andle the
entire lending program. Furthermore, as LDB has reached only a very small
percentage of farm families in the State (aud mainly the larger farmers), the
adequacy of other banking facilities is critical to both the scale and
penetration of the proposed Project.
4.09      Poor management and technical advice, weak lending policies and
the rapid expansion in its lending have all contributed to LDB's high level
of overdues. In the three years 1968/69 - 1970/71, overdues at the apex
level have been 23%, 33% and 30%, while Primary Bank averages have been
39%, 44% and 40%. For LDB to be an acceptable Project institution, over-
dues should be reduced to not more than 25% of demand at the apex level and
at least those Primary Banks proposed for Project lending. For this pur-
pose, an LDB rehabilitation program has been prepared as part of the banking
plan. The State Government has provided the LDB system with new equity capital
(Rs 8 million or US$1 million) to the extent of individual Primary Bank
overdues in excess of 25%. In 1970/71 LDB made a profit of Rs 2 million
against which a 4% dividend was declared (see Annex 4, Tables 5 through 8 for
LDB financial statements).



- 13 -
4.10      A significant-cause of the high overdues was the poor quality of LDB
management particularly the Primary Banks and the lack of adequate technical
advice from both within and outside LDB. This partly stems from a low
level of salaries and poor training. Since appraisal, LDB has strengthened
its managerial staff and has commenced an intensive recruitment and training
program. The intention is that each Primary Bank should have: a competent
manager and accountant; two field officers; a technical officer; one super-
visor for every 100 new applications; one valuation officer for every 150
applications; plus supporting clerical staff. Training will be given by ARC,
the RBI College at Poona and GOI Cooperative Colleges. A system of in-service
training has started.
4.11      The terms and conditions of LDB lending under the Project are
detailed in Schedule B and discussed in paras 4.19-4.21.
Madj a Pradesh_State Cooperative Bank
4.12      The SCB system although not participating in the Project is import-
ant for its network of lending outlets throughout the State, as the major
source of seasonal farm credit and to a less extent of medium-term finance.
SCB operates at the district level through 43 central banks and their 560
branches and at the village level through 9,300 credit societies. The last,
with a membership of about two million, are closely linked with village
marketing societies and the system thus provides integrated services with
good rural penetration. SCB's resources derive from members' share capital,
-deposits and savings accounts and debenture issues. In 1969/70 short-term
lending amounted to Rs 450 million and medium-term (3-5 years) Rs 46 million,
the latter including loans for about 5,000 wells. Interest rates range from
9-1/2% to 11%.
4.13      Within the system, the central banks are the significant lending
medium and the extent of RBI refinance of their short-term lending depends
substantially on their collection performance. In 1969/70 overdues at
this level averaged 28% of demand and at the primary level, 33%. There
were considerable differences among central banks, however, and as of
April 1972, the boards of 14 had been dismissed because of mismanagement.
Others, however, are financially sound and well run though lacking technical
expertise (lending operations for wells have been particularly weak).
Commercial Banks
4.14      Of the 17 commercial banks operating in Madhya Pradesh, 13 are
owned by GOI (12 nationalized in August 1969 and the previously owned
State Bank of India (SBI)), the other four and smaller banks remaining in
private owmership. Combined they have 725 branches throughout the State.
Apart from the State Bank of Indore, a subsidiary of S81, none have their
head offices In the State though the larger banks have established zonal
offices in Bhopal with some delegated powers.



- 14 -
4.15      Although commercial banks have been encouraged to increase the
volume of agricultural lending, there has been little organizational innova-
tioi since nationalization. Two developments, however, have been signifi-
cant. The first was the introduction of the lead bank system whereby each
district was allocated a commercial bank to guide and coordinate its
banking development. Eight banks have lead responsibilities in Madhya
Pradesh of which the Central Bank of India with 17 districts, the SBI and
its subsidiaries with 10 and the Bank of India with 9 are the most important.
Second, in a few states commercial banks have taken over the financing of
some primary societies which had been unable to meet their members' credit
needs owing to weak central cooperative banks. In Madhya Pradesh where 10
banks have advanced Rs 7.0 million short-term and Rs 1.8 million medium-
term to 263 societies in 16 districts, the scheme has had less impact than
in other states. To meet these and other requirements, commercial banks
have accelerated the opening of rural branches (an additional 88 have been
licensed for opening in 1973) but as each bank operates independently the
type and scope of branch development vary widely. However the commercial
banks have now established a regional coordination committee to ensure
cooperation between banks. The State Government has also established a high
powered coordinating committee, under the chairmanship of the Production Com-
missioner, on which commercial banks will be represented.
4.16      Despite the emphasis on agricultural lending, it is estimated
that commercial banks are still providing only 5% of the total institutional
credit supply for agriculture in India and although the percentage is
higher in Madhya Pradesh, total outstanding advances to the sector are only
about Rs 100 million.  Apart from their lack of experience in agriculture,
commercial banks have been seriously handicapped: in particular they have
not had the privileged position of cooperative banks which operate under
simpler lending requirements and have substantial free assistance from
extension and other State Government services. More fundamentally, state
governments have preferred cooperative institutions which are effectively
within their control to commercial banks which are outside it. Attitudes
have changed, however, and as evidence of this in December 1972, the Madhya
Pradesh Government has taken measures which will remove various impediments
to commercial bank operations. These include the use by commercial banks
of the services provided by the extension service and DTGS and the enactment
in December 1972 of the "Madhya Pradesh Credit Operations and 'liscellaneous
Provisions (Banks) Bill" which will further assist commercial banks to under-
take agricultural lending. With their large resource base and some trained
manpower reserves, commercial banks should thus be able to undertake a
substantial amount of Project lending. The extent of commercial bank partici-
pation in the Project will form part of the banking plan (para 4.02) and ARC
will be responsible for ensuring that the plan, as agreed by IDA, is implemented.
An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations. ARC would ensure
that commercial banks would only lend for well investments where the approval
of DTGS had been received and would adhere to the criteria set out in Schedule
A.



- 15 -
Directorate of Tubewells and Groundwater Surveys (DTGS)
4.17      The DTGS was established in 1968 with a nucleus of staff and
it has recently been strengthened. Even though the senior staff are
experienced, many of the junior officers are recent graduates with little
field experience and assistance for training them is needed. The recently-
established GOI Central Ground-Water Board has a cadre of experienced
hydrogeologists and has expressed willingness to assist the States in the
studies required for the successful completion of this project. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that assistance would be provided
by the assignment of at least five Officers from CGWB.
4.18      DTGS would carry out water resource investigations on the basis
of integral hydrogeological units and would specify regulations for invest-
ment in minor irrigation according to the criteria set out in Schedule A.
It would also participate in the appraisal of dugwells as required and in
the case of each investment it would certify that the loan application met
the specified criteria and no loan would be granted without such approval.
It was also agreed that the State Government would apply the same criteria
to all minor irrigation development under its direct or indirect control (in
the case of development outside Project areas, the criteria would apply one
year after the date of credit effectiveness).
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
Interest Rates
4.19      As under the seven existing agricultural credit projects, IDA
funds would be lent by ARC at an interest rate of 6-1/2% annually for
on-lending to final borrowers at 9%. It was also agreed that lending banks
could charge an evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost of individual investments:
in the case of LDB this would be retained by the Primaries.
Collateral and Land Valuation
4.20      LDB's present policy is to lend up to 50% of both the unimproved
value of land and cost of proposed development. Under the Project if land is
taken as security the valuation will be based on the estimated value of developed
land resulting from the investment, and it is recommended that the amount
of loan eligibility be increased to 60% of valuation.
Borrowers' Contribution to Investment Costs and Maturities
4.21      Under the Project, borrowers' contribution to investment costs
would be 20% for dugwells and land development, and 10% for pumpsets and
persian wheels of individual investment costs for normal borrowers and 10%
for defined small farmers (Schedule B) with investments of less than Rs 10,000:
the percentage would include (for LDB lending) the borrowers' required share
capital contribution of 5% and generally the value of any family labor contributed.



- 16 -
Repayment periods, which would not exceed the life of the asset financed,
would for normal borrowers not exceed nine years for wells, seven years for
pump sets and persian wheels (whether as a separate investment or part of a
well investment) and 10 years for land development. A grace period of two
years would be allowed only in the case of wells equipped with persian wheels.
For small farmers, repayment periods for wells and land development would be
up to 15 years, pump sets and persian wheel loan repayments, however, remaining
at seven years.
Lending Policies
4.22      The lending terms summarized above and detailed in Schedule B
would apply to all lending under the Project and, because of substantial
differences from present practices, to all future similar LDB lending. Com-
mercial banks generally follow these terms and no other policy changes are
therefore required. Generally, investments would be evaluated in terms of
incremental returns in accordance with methods developed by ARC and in
addition minor irrigation investments would conform to the technical
criteria specified in Schedule A. Assurances on these matters were obtained
at negotiations.
Accounts and Audit
4.23      While commercial banks have their accounts audited by commercial
firms, LDB in conformity with Indian practice is audited by a section of
the State Government's cooperative department. Accordingly, it was agreed
at negotiations that the department wouldl continue to audit LDB's accounts
and such annual accounts would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
fiscal year-end. It was also agreed that the audited accounts of any commercial
barxk channelling Project funds would be submitted to IDA within four months
of their fiscal year-end, together with a statement of Project lending of
such banks certified by ARC.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Indicative farm models have been developed which demonstrate
that Project investments would enable farmers to increase their production
through; (a) higher cropping intensities (increasing from an average of 103%
to 136% on participating farms); and (b) from improved yields (Appendix 6-1).
The increase in cropped area resulting from the Project would be about
34,000 ha (Appendix 6-4) attributable to minor irrigation. In addition,
production would be intensified on about 117,000 ha through the introduction
of irrigation.
5.02      The four farm models indicate that the expected cropping patterns
are determined not only by the relative profitability of various crops
(which in some ceses, notably wheat, enjoy considerable price support) but



- 17 -
to a large extent also by crop water requirements and growing periods.
Water availability is particularly critical in Madhya Pradesh which has only
one monsoon season a year and a detailed analysis of crop water requirements
and supply is thus included in Annex 6.  Based on these models, production
increases at full development would be about 167,000 tons of foodgrains,
238,000 tons of sugar cane, 80,000 tons of vegetables anJ chillies, 19,000
tons of oilseeds and 20,000 tons of cotton (lint and seed) (Appendix 6-4).
Most of the foodgrain increases would be in wheat, the most significant
crop in the Project area.
Marketinp
5.03      Madhya Pradesh is in a net surplus position for all cereals as a
group, due largely to sizeable surpluses of rice. Wheat however has been
imported and the entire incremental production is expected to be consumed
within the State.  Mlost of the incremental production of vegetables, which
includes a variety of garden and field crops, and of sugar cane is also
expected to be consumed locally, the latter either as gur or refined sugar.
Increases in other crops would be exported to other states either for sale
(pulses) and/or for processing (cotton and oilseeds).
5.04      Of the 277 agricultural markets in Madhya Pradeshi, 225 are
regulated under existing legislation which is now being amended to
strengthen government's regulatory powers. Among marketing facilities,
transportation and storage are the most deficient. Rail and road traffic
is being improved though some inadequacies may be expected to continue.
The lack of adequate storage however has been detrimental both to the
physical movement of agricultural commodities and the functioning of the
market price mechanism and at times rains and pest infestation have caused
heavy losses. Accordingly it was agreed at negotiations that the State
Government with the assistance of ARC would conduct a study of agricultural
marketing and storage requirements.
Prices
5.05      Prices received by farmers are in some cases lower than in
neighboring states and some are subject to considerable seasonal fluctuation.
While they are still generally higher than international prices, some
decline in price levels must be expected as India progresses towards
self-sufficiency in food and other crops. To take account of these uncertain-
ties, the Project's financial and economic rates of return have been tested
against percentage changes in prices (paras 5.06 and 6.02).
Farmers' Benefits
5.06      The financial rates of return on incremental investments (Appendix
6-2) based on present prices and costs for the four indicative models range
from 35% to 51% for the normal minor irrigation investments (19% for the
exceptional Model III dugwell). It must be recognized however that these
rates of return are dependent in particular upon assumptions regarding prices,
adequate farm management and the rate at which development would occur.
In order to test the sensitivity of the returns against deficiencies in



- 18 -
these factors, net benefits at full development were decreased by 20%. The
rates of return then ranged from 28% to 10% indicating that these investments
would still be financially attractive.
5.07      Fanners' responses to investment opportunities are however more
likely to depend on their expected effect on net income. Appendix 6-3
thus details farmers' budgets based on the four illustrative farm models.
This shows first that, with the exception of Model III, farmers can expect
from these investments very considerable increases in net income after
debt service with interest at 9% per annum. Typically, Model 1V shows an
increase from Rs 1,591 to Rs 4,469 annually at full development. In the
case of the exceptional Model III, the farmer's cash flow requires a two-
year capital repayment grace period (para 4.21) but thereafter total net
income shows an increase of 70%. Second, the Appendix shows that, even in
the case of a smaller farmer of 1-1/2 ha selling surplus water to his
neighbor (Model MI) net income increases from Rs 674 to Rs 2,770 annually
at full development. Although some loss of efficiency, and thus of
income, can be expected from water sharing arrangements, the proportionate
increase in the individual incomes of two or more farmers should not vary
significantly: typically income per ha from a moderately well utilized
dugwell should increase from about Rs 450 to some Rs 1,200 annually at
full development after debt service of about Rs 600. Such margins are wide
enough to cover possible performance deficiencies and still provide more
than adequate incentive for farmers to invest.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would benefit about 44,000 farmers and their
dependents, a total of some 250,000 persons, through investments in minor
irrigation and land development. The value of annual production on these
farms would increase by US$22 million at full development calculated at
current domestic prices. After debt service payments, the net incremental
farm family income would amount to nearly US$18 million annually. Benefits
to the Indian economy would be an expansion in the production of agricultural
commodities which are in short supply. The assumed availability of on-farm
water supplies would enable better use of high yielding seed varieties and
fertilizers and, since yields would be less dependent on uncertain rainfall,
production on participating farms would not fluctuate as widely as in the
past. At present farmers pay only a minimal fixed land revenue tax and the
Project would thus not generate any incremental direct tax revenue. Indirect
taxes would accrue to GOI and the State goverrnent from sales taxes and excise
and import duties. Their incremental value is estimated to average about
Rs 12 million annually for the first three years of the Project's life and
about Rs 9 million annually thereafter.
6.02      Using predicted world market prices and after making appropriate
adjustments in respect of taxes, the economic rates of return would range
from 17% to over 100% with family labor costed at subsistence rates during the
off-season and at peak-season market rates during harvest time. As indicated



- 19 -
in para 5.06, these returns are dependent on assumptions made in respect to
various essential factors. In order to test the sensitivity of the returns
percentage changes of 20% in net benefits at the farm gate have been assumed
and returns would then range from 12% to 74% (Appendix 7-1).
6.03      The above calculations take no account of the indirect benefits
accruing from increased knowledge of groundwater resources which, together
with the new minor irrigation appraisal methods and criteria to be introduced,
would provide the framework for better groundwater use throughout Madhya
Pradesh. Improvements in the banking system within the State would similarly
bring about benefits outside the scope of the Project. Part of the overall
benefit takes the form of increased employment opportunities. It is estima-
ted that at least 5,000 families would gain increased income from work on
Project-financed farms while the labor input by the farm families themselves
would be increased by 47%. Though difficult to measure these and other
factors would enhance the Project's already satisfactory economic justification.
6.04      In order to improve future project appraisal, it is necessary to
measure the financial and economic benefits which actually result from the
investment. Consequently it was agreed at negotiations that ARC
would utilize the machinery it has already established for monitoring and
evaluating the financial and economic benefits of this Project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  the Government of Madhya Pradesh will support the
implementation of appraisal criteria and procedures
applicable to minor irrigation as set out in Schedule
A for all Project lending and for all groundwater
development under its direct or indirect control
(para 3.03);
(b)  ARC will, subject to consultation with IDA, not make
IDA finance available to any Primary Bank of LDB whose
collection level falls below 75% of demand (para 4.04);
(c)  ARC will insure that the banking development plan,
agreed by IDA, is implemented (para 4.16); and
(d)  the GOI will cause CGWB to assign at least five officers
to DTGS (para 4.17).
7.02      Conditions of the effectiveness of the credit would be:



- 20 -
(a) the implementation of an agreed banking plan for the Project
including measures for the financial and managerial rehabili-
tation of LDB (para 4.02); and
(b) the execution of a loan agreement between GOI and ARC
acceptable to IDA (para 4.04).
7.03      The proposed Project is suitable fpr on IDA credit of US$33 million
under standard IDA terms.
April 26, 1973



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1i4nor Irrigation:  Proram, Appraisal Criteria and Procedures
I. Dugwell Program
1.        The construction of new dugwells, the improvement of existing dug-
wells and installation of electric and diesel pumpsets and persian wheel
lifting devices with ancilliary development would involve an investment of
Rs 430 million in the following six river basins and 35 administrative
districts:
River Basin       Project Districts -  with    Non-Project Districts
Rjegions           Duzell Investments         included in State Minor
Irrigation Program
(a)  Narmada           Betul, Bhopal, Chhindwara             Mandla
Dewas, Hosangabad, Indore,
Jabalpur Jhabua, Khandwa,
Khargone, Narsingpur,
Sehore, Seoni
(b)  Ganga             Jabalpur, Raigarh,                     Rewa
Sarguja, Satna, Shahdol,
Sidhi
(c)  Yamuna            Bhind, Bhopal, Chhattarpur,            Damoh, Daria,
Dewas, Dhar, Guna, Gwalior,             Raisen
Indore, Jab aju, Mandsaur,
Morena 2/, Panna, Rajgarh,
Ratlam, Sagar, Sehore, Shajapur,
Shivpuri, Tikamgarh, Ujjaain,
Vidisha
(d)  Godavari          Balaghat, Betul, Chhindwara               --
Seoni
(e)  Tapti             Betul, Khandwa, Khargone                  --
(f)  Mahi              Jhabua, Ratlam-
1/   District names underlined overlap two or more river basins.
2/   The portion of this District covered by the Chambal command area
is excluded from the Project area.



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
II. Appraisal Criteria
2.        Pump:  3-5 hp centrifugal
3.        Minimum Well Discharge:
At the time of appraisal the proposed new dugwell or dugwell
improvement should indicate good prospects of realizing discharge normally
sufficient to irrigate about one and one-half hectare of total farmland of
the borrower or of the borrowers and his neighbors at a cropping intensity
of 140% and in any case sufficient to achieve an incremental return adequate
to support the investment.
4.        Density of Dugwells
The density of dugwells within an elementary watershed would be
determined bv the application of the following formula:
d   r x 100
B x Ax c
100
Where d = density (wells/km2)
r = recharge in basin (mm)
R = water requirement for the average cropping pattern (mm)
c = cropping intensity (%)
A = average area irrigated by a well (ha)
5.        Spacing of Dugwells
The spacing of wells shall be determined for any area by
the application of the following formula:
S           R1 000   Rx A x 
r x 100
where s = spacing (mm)
(other symbols as under 4 above)
No investment for a dugwell, or dugwell improvement would be approved if the
proposed investment was sited less than the specified distance from another
well.
6.        Investment in Persian Wheels
Investments shall normally be made in Persian wheels where:
(i) in the opinion of DTGS, the well discharge
does not justify the installation of an electric
or diesel pumpset, or



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
(ii) electric power is likely to become available
in the near future so as not to justify
purchase of a diesel pumpset.
7.        Irriation and Drainae Facilities
If adequate irrigation and drainage pipes or channels did not
already exist on farms to benefit from the investment, the provision of such
facilities would be a condition of lending and could be included in the
financing.
8.        Apro va] l_by DTGS
No loan for minor irrigation shall be approved in any area before
DTGS has approved the area on technical grounds.
III.  Guidelines for Or anization and Appraisel
9.        To the extent compatible with the responsibilities of ARC as the
Project refinancing agency, DTGS would advise on minor irrigation development.
For this purpose it has established divisional field offices responsible
for groundwater surveys and development in one or more districts with adequate
technical staff to advise on each proposed investment.
10.       The field offices of DTGS would progressively establish and demarcate
the approximate limits of elementary watersheds within the river basin regions,
and these elementary watersheds would be the basic unit of group appraisal
for dugwell investments.
11.       DTGS would estimate groundwater recharge in each of the elementary
watersheds by one or more of the following methods; the measurement of water
level fluctuation in observation wells, the measurement of dry weather flow of
streams from elementary watersheds and/or carrying out studies of the annual
inflow and outflow from the watershed in accordance with the water balance
equation:
G = P - (R + E + Cu)
where     G = groundwater balance
P = rainfall input
R = run-off
E = evaporation
Cu = consumptive use of water by vegetation



SCHEDULE A
Page 4
Until deliberate calculations are made for each watershed, DTGS would make a
provisional and conservative estimate of recharge using studies in other
representative watersheds as a basis for such estimates.
12.       During appraisal a sketch map would be prepared showing the loca-
tion of existing wells within a radius of 300 to 500 m of the site at the
proposed well, names of owners of property, the location of property lines
and the area proposed to be irrigated by the proposed well. Information
regarding location of existing power lines, canals, lift irrigation works,
reservoirs and type of power unit proposed should also be shown. Grid maps
on a suitable scale showing project works should be maintained in the fieldl
offices.
13.       DTGS using the formulae set out in paras 4 and 5 above shall estab-
lish density and spacing factors for each watershed in which a Project scheme
was to be implemented, and the establishment of these factors shall be subject
to ARC's approval.
14.       Appraisals of individual loan applications would be made by an
officer of the lending bank assisted, if needed, by a staff member of DTGS.
Applications would include all pertinent data including that described in
paragraph 13 and would be sent to the Divisional Office at DTGS for approval
of technical criteria before loan approval by the lending institution.
DrGS would physically check all doubtful cases and, in addition, would check
10% of all recommended applications for compliance with appraisal criteria.
15.       As part of its appraisal, the lending bank would satisfy itself prior
to loan approval that the criteria set forth in para 3 above have been met.
16.       In the event of a new dugwell failing to realize the anticipated
water discharge DTGS would be requested to recommend the type of lifting
device to be installed (persian wheels/pumpsets, see paras 3 and 6), based
on a field inspection of the well or on prior experience and knowledge of
the area.
lV.  Lending Criteria and Procedures Applying to
Similar Investments Outside  the Pr2ejct
17.       Outside the Project areas, with effect from 12 months from the
effective date, LDB, and all agencies within the direct or indirect control
of the State Government would only lend for minor irrigation investments
where:
(a)  approval had been given by DTGS. and
(b) such lending conformed to the appraisal criteria
and procedures set out in this schedule.
April 26, 1973



SCHEDULE B
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Lending Tenns and Conditions
1.        GOI to ARC
(a) In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding nine years:
(i) interest rate of not less than 5-1/2%,' per annum
less 1/4% per annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of nine years,
(b) In respect of ARC refinancing for ten years and above but not
exceeding 15 years:
(1) interest rate of not less than 6% per annum less 1/4% per
annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARC to Lending Banks
(a) Interest rate not less than 6-1/2% per annum;
(b) Refinancing by way of purchase of debentures or by loans
at the rate of 90% of individual loans for minor irrigation
and 75% of individual loans for land development:
(c) Repayments to ARC to be in installments set to coincide,
more or less, with the maturing period of special debentures
purchased by ARC or, as the case may be, with expected
collections of agricultural loans refinanced.
3.        LDB to Primary Banks
(a) Interest rate not less than 7-1/2% per annum;
(b) Repayments in installments set to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers;
(c) Loans would cover the total amount of Primary Banks'
lending to ultimate borrowers.



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
4.        PriminAU   ks and Commercial Banks Leand  _to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Interest rate not less than 9% per annum;
(b) A once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost of
project investments;
(c) Borrowers' contributions (for lending through Primary Banks):
(i) for normal lending, a minimum of 15% for dugwells and
land development, and 5% for pumpsets and persian
wheels of the cost of the project investment
(including own labor contribution);
(ii) for lending to small farmers -1/ 5% (including own labor
contribution) in the case of minor irrigation invest-
ments costing less than Rs 10,000 each, and for land
development.
In addition to the contribution towards the cost of the investment, borrowers
would contribute to LDB share capital an amount equal to 5% of their loans.
(d) Borrowers' contributions (for lending through Commercial Banks):
(M) for normal lending a minimum of 20% of the cost of the
project investment (including own labor contribution)
for dugwells and land development, and 10% for pumpsets
and persian wheels;
(ii)  for lending to small farmers -  a minimum of 10% of
the cost of minor irrigation investments (including
own labor contribution) costing less than Rs 10,000
each and for land development.
1/   In accordance with criteria agreed with IDA, to be eligible for small
farmers concessional lending terms, a farmer should not cultivate an
aggregate area in excess of such area as will yield a total farm
income of Rs 2,400 per annum. For this purpose, '"total farm income"
shall be the income net of cultivation costs but not of the principal
and interest due on the loan; and shall include both the incremental
farm income accruing from the investment on the loan in the land benefit-
ting from it as well as the farm income from the land not so benefitting.
This definition is presently under discussion with GOI and ARC. A
pre-developmental income concept is being considered which could have
the effect of allowing a greater number of small farmers to take
advantage of concessional lending terms.



SCI{EDULE B
Page 3
(e) Repayment periods, which would not exceed the life of the
asset financed would be:
(i) for normal lending a maximum of:
(1) Nine years with no grace period on loans for
dugwells, dugwell improvements and land development
on dugwell projects where such dugwells are energized
by an electric or diesel engine;
(2)  Nine years, including two years of grace in which interest
only would be payable, on loans for new dugwells where
such dugwells are powered by persian wheels;
(3) Seven years with no grace period on loans for electric
or diesel pumpsets including the electricity connection
deposit;
(4)  Seven years, including two years of grace in which interest
only would be payable on loans for persian wheels where
installed on new dugwells; and
(5) Ten years, with no grace period, for land development
loans;
(ii) for lending to small farmers as defined, repayment periods
for dugwells and dugwell improvement loans may be increased
to 15 years including two years of grace in which interest
only would be paid.
Except grace periods are specified, repayments would commence in the year
following the completion of the investment.
5.        Other LDB Lendig_Op ratitins
LDB and Primary Banks would apply the same borrowers' contribution
and repayment requirements to all their similar lending operations and the
same interest rates, evaluation fees and collateral requirements to all their
lending operations (except in the case of schemes submitted under the aegis
of the Small Farmers and Marginal Farmers Development Agencies in Madhya
Pradesh).
April 26, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
Physiography and Drainage
1.        Madhya Pradesh is the largest state in India with an area of about
444,000 km2. It extends from 18° to 27° N latitude and from 740 to 840 E
longitude and is thus located near the geographic center of the country.
Physiographically the State is divided into four regional types:
(a) Mountain Region: the Satpura, Mahadeo and Maikal mountain
ranges extend across the State in southwest-northeast
direction south of the Narmada River valley, and reach
altitudes in excess of 1,500 meters. These mountains and
adjacent highlands form the headwaters of the seven Important
rivers in the state.
(b)  Plateau Regions:  the Vindhyan, Deccan and Malwa plateaus
occupy a large part of the State north of the Narmada
River valley.
(c) Valleys: the alluvial valleys of the Narmada, Chambal, Son
Mahanadi and other smaller rivers provide important ground-
water resources suitable for development by tubewells.
(d) Plains: the low-lying area occupying the most northerly
portion of the state.
Geology
2.        About one-third of the State has igneous rocks of Upper Cretaceous
to Lower Eocene age locally known as Deccan Traps which were formed by
successive lava flows. Das 1/ has reported that the individual flows vary in
thickness from five to about 30 meters. The thinner flows are permeable
because of cracks and crevices formed by rapid cooling and weathering of the
lava but the thicker zones are impermeable except near the bottom and top
of the flow where cooling was more rapid. The time interval between
successive flows was sufficient for considerable weathering to occur which
formed interflow zones that are permeable to the movement of groundwater.
1/   Das, K. N.  Occurrence of Groundwater into Deccan Trap Areas of
Madhya Pradesh State, unpublished. 1972.



AiNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Both, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks are also found over large
areas. These consist of limestones, shales, sandstones and conglomerates
of Upper Permian to Upper Jurassic age. The Vindhyan sandstone which
outcrops in some parts of the State is classified as Precambrian, and can
be considered as a poor aquifer because of its resistance to weathering
and its limited primary fractures.
4.        Outcrops of early Precambrian (Archeozoic) rocks can be found on the
mountainous slopes and consist of porphyritic granites, phillites, schists,
gneiss, quartzite etc., but these are not significant from the standpoint of
groundwater resources.
Climate
5.        The Iladhya Pradesh climate is sub-tropical with mean annual tempera-
ture of 24.40C ranging from a mean of about 1800 in January to about 32°C in
>lay.  Maximum and minimum temperatures in the Tawa project area of 45°C and
3°C have been observed.
6.        The annual precipitation ranges from-a bean of,760 mm in the
extreme western part of the State to near 1,300 mmIin the south central part.
Practically all the annual precipitation occurs duping the monsoon period,
June-September.  A summary of precipitation data is given in Appendix 6-lb.
Surface Water
7.        The Project area is drained by four principal river systems--the
Narmada which discharges into the Arabian Sea and the Yamuna, Ganga and
Godavari Rivers which flow into the Bay of Bengal. The Narmada, the most
important of these rivers to Madhya Pradesh, rises in the east central part
of the State and flows west southwest. The Yamuna River drains the north-
western part of the State and its major tributary is the Chambal which joins
the Yamuna River outside the State boundary. The northeastern districts
are drained by the Son and Satna Rivers which are tributaries of the Ganga
River. The Godavari Basin drains the south central portion of the State
and forms part of the State's southern boundary. The Project area also
includes portions of Betul and Jhabua Districts which are situated in the
Tapti and Mahi River Basins and which also flow into the Arabian Sea.
d.        The Chambal River development scheme provides for irrigation of
land in Morena District. The stream flow is regulated by Gandhi Sagar,
Rana Pratap and Jawahar Sagar Dams and reservoirs and was designed to
generate power and irrigate 220,000 ha in both Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
9.        Another large gravity irrigation project is under construction on
the Tawa River, a tributary of the Narmada River. This is designed to
irrigate 332,000 ha and the flow of the Tawa River will be regulated by a
reservoir of 2,3056m3 (1,874 million acre feet) capacity.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Groundwater
10.       Essentially all groundwater available to dug and dug-cum-bore wells
in the Project area occurs within the residual weathered material overlying
the igneous, sedimentary or metamorphic bedrock or in joints or fractures
within the upper zone of unweathered bedrock.
11.       In the alluvial areas along the river valleys and in some of the
plateau regions groundwater is being developed by tubewells. Relatively
good aquifers for tubewell development are usually found in the Deccan
Trap areas, either in the fractures and crevices of the lava or in the
interflow zones. Tubewells in alluvial aquifers or trap areas typically
have a discharge ranging from five to 25,000 gph (6.3 to 31.5 1/sec).
Usually several aquifers are encountered, first under water table conditions
(or perched) and at progressively greater depths semi-confined and/or
confined. In the sandstone areas groundwater is usually obtained in
fracture zones.
12.       There are about 650,000 dugwells in Madhya Pradesh, most about
seven meters in diameter and nine to 15 meters deep. In most instances it
is impracticable for dugwells to completely penetrate the lava flows as
these are too thick and become massive with increasing depth. However,
where these flows are thin (five to seven meters) they can be penetrated
by dugwells and sometimes tap an interflow zone which may be quite permeable.
A rubble masonry wall is constructed around the perimeter of the well to
prevent collapse of the soft surficial materials and if bedrock is encountered
this forms its foundation. Large diameter wells are usually preferred as
this permits more water storage but it also adds considerably to its cost.
If the diameter of the well were reduced by say one-third, the total cost
could be reduced by about one-half and with horizontal and/or vertical
drilling, the well yields would be equal to or greater than that of the
large diameter wells.
13.       Recharge to groundwater occurs primarily from direct precipitation
supplemented by seepage from streams, tanks and irrigation applications.
Recharge opportunity is limited mainly to the monsoon period and varies with
the duration and intensity of the rainfall as well as the infiltration
capacity of the soil and subsoil. Groundwater storage capacity is dependent
on the specific yield of the aquifer where it occurs under water table
conditions as is the case of dugwells. The determination of recharge is
the most important element in the spacing of wells. If wells are spaced
too closely, there will be mutual interference, i.e., the drawdown in both
will be increased as a result of pumping and the discharge will be decreased.
There are three methods of estimating recharge applicable to the Project area:
(a) Measurements of water level fluctuation in observation
wells. The rise in water level resulting from recharge
during monsoon rainfall multiplied by the specific yield
of the formation will give an approximate value of the
increment of rainfall added to the groundwater reservoirs.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
The difficulties with the method are: (i) obtaining
measurements which are not affected by pumping from the
well; and (ii) obtaining good estimates of the specific-
yield of the formation.
(b) Measurement of the dry weather flow of streams fron
elementary watersheds. The recession leg of the
streamflow hydrograph represents essentially effluent
discharge from the groundwater reservoir, and affords
a means of estimating the recharge not otherwise utilized.
(c) Making studies of annual inflow to and outflow from the
watershed in accordance with the water balance equation:
G = P - (R + E + Cu)
where      G = groundwater balance
P - rainfall input
R = runoff
E = evaporation
Cu = consumptive use of water by vegetation
14.       There are several items in the water balamce equation that are
difficult to estimate with accuracy. The input of precipitation is difficult
to estimate unless there is a relatively dense network of rain gauges. Fur-
thermore, the storm runoff depends to a great exteht oh the rainfall intensity
that varies considerably from one storm to another, also infiltration
capacity of the soil affects the runoff and such data can be obtained only
by extensive field surveys. The consumptive use of cropped areas can be
estimated with a fair degree of accuracy if the crop is provided with a
full water supply. If not, as is the case with most rainfed crops, the
amount of water used by the crop is difficult to estimate accurately. When
it is realized that groundwater recharge is usually in the order of 10% - 20°;
of Llae annual precipitation and that this is the residual or unknown in the
water balance equation, it is evident that such determinations provide only
approximations. However, if estimates of groundwater recharge are derived
by l    methiods described above, reasonable values can be obtained.
15.       t.ltiough little data are available, the quality of groundwater
appears to be suitable for eitlher domestic or irrigation use. -io known
problems of water quality have developed from  the use of groundwater from
existing wel ls.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Present state of groundwater development
16.       The population of about 650,000 dugwells in i,adh'ya Pradesh (about
400,000 in the Project area) is presently increasing at the rate of about
25,000 annually. Most of the current development is fi.anced by loans
from the State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) (about 11,000 in
1970/71) part by the State Cooperative Bank (SCB) (about 5,000) and
commercial banks with the remainder being financed from private and non-
institution sources. In addition there are on-going LDB schemes for the
installation of about 4,000, mainly shallow tubewells of which some 600
Iad been completed as of April 1972. The tubewell schemes and some
dugwell schemes are being refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation.
17.       Of the 18,351,000 ha net sown area in Madhya Pradesh in 1970/71
only 1,481,000 ha or about 8.2% was irrigated and about 510,000 ha or one-
third of the irrigated area was attributable to wells, mainly dugwells.
The average area irrigated by wells was thus just under 0.9 ha. This low
average has resulted from the following factors:
(a) poor well siting due to inadequate technical guidance
and direction;
(b) the absence of either vertical or horizontal boring at
the bottom of a dugwell which if carried out could in wide-
spread conditions result in substantial increase in well
yield for small capital cost. This situation has stemmed
from a lack of technical knowledge and inadequate and poorly
organized drilling services;
(c)  inefficient water use because of inadequate lanid shaping
in the cultivable command area;
(d) the small proportion of wells energized by electric or
diesel pumpsets (about 7%). This has been partly due to
the limited rural electrification in the State and farmers
reluctance to invest in higher cost diesel pumps. It has
also been due to (in particular) LDB financing arrangements
which by placing limits on well loans and by using outdated
land valuation methods have prevented borrowers from
completing their investments;
(e) small farmer well owners who have been unwilling to share
or sell water in excess of that required to irrigate their
own farms.
18.       Together these factors have resulted in a low well-technology
and consequent over-capitalization. The proposed dugwell development
program (para 22) should make possible the irrigation of some 107,000 ha
but if half the borrowers under the Project were to irrigate only one ha



&NNEX 1
Page 6
each (either because they were small farmers unwilling to sell their
surplus water or for other reasons), the area benefitting would be reduced
by about one-third to 72,000 ha. To minimize the dangers of over-
capitalization, it is essential to raise the standards of well technology
and critical in this will be the strengthening of the State Directorate
of Tubewells and Groundwater Surveys (DTGS) (para 25) both to extend the
scope of its groundwater surveys and to enable it to ensure the implementation
of well development programs to acceptable standards and criteria.
19.       Preliminary computation of groundwater recharge has been made by
DTGS in 24 districts where data are available. These have been based on
geologic mapping, well inventories, water level measurements and test
drilling and indicate that groundwater recharge is about 76 times as much
as that proposed to be utilized by the new wells. Although only tentative,
these preliminary computations indicate adequate groundwater resources.
Existing data also indicates, however, that there are large variations in
the amount of rainfall added to the groundwater reservoir and although well
densities are generally low, there are areas of over exploitation and of
mutual interference between wells. It is therefore crucial that well
development be considered in the context of each elementary watershed.
20.       At the present time no legislation controlling groundwater develop-
ment exists in Madhya Pradesh and although the State Government intends to
propose such legislation, it is essential that in the meantime, effective
controls are exercised through the Project and other lending programs on a
pragmatic basis. As most wells are financed through institutional loans it
would be possible in this way to introduce effective criteria for future
minor irrigation development. Schedule A thus sets out the criteria and
guidelines for appraisal to be introduced under the Project and in particular,
formulae relating to the determination of well densities and minimum spacing
requirements.
21.       Because recharge is the most important paramater in determining
well densities and spacing, Schedule A also details procedures and guidelines
for its computation. In addition to well inventories and measurements of
water levels, surface water gaging stations should be selected on the basis
of factors such as geology, topography, vegetation and agro-climatic condi-
tions in order to be as representative a sample as possible. An analysis
of the recession leg of the hydrograph will provide a means of estimating
groundwater recharge within the watershed regardless of the administrative
disi-Ict in which it is located. Rainfall-runoff relationships can also be
developed and used in the water balance equation to estimate recharge on
the basis of elementary watersheds.
Proposed Development Program
22.       The Project's minor irrigation component would involve a total
expenditure of Rs 430 million (about US$53.7 million) in various types of
dugwell investments. The precise numbers of each type of investment cannot
be determined until detailed schemes have been prepared but it is expected



ANN4EX 1
Page 7
that there would be about 24,000 new dugwells and about 15,000 improvements
to existing wells. Most new well investments would include either an
electric or diesel pumpset and the same would apply to well improvement
investments where such energization did not already exist. It is estimated
that about 39,000 pumpsets would altogether be involved (Appendix 6-2).
Emphasis has been placed on well improvement because many wells are not
developed to their full potential and in favorable conditions, well yields
can be increased by up to 200% by deepening and particularly by horizontal
or vertical boring. Investments in persian wheels, a traditional lifting
device, would only be made where a well failed to realize sufficient
discharge to justify the installation of an electric or diesel pumpset.
23.       Borrowers making investments in electric pumps would also be
required to make a deposit of Rs 3,000 for the electricity connection.
This is later recovered by the farmer by deductions from his electricity
bill. Although Rs 3,000 may not on average cover the full cost of such
connections (this would depend on an average of distances), it is a figure
which has been adopted elsewhere in India and is well within borrower
repayment capacity.
Well Yields
24.       The yield of dugwells is dependent, not only on the recharge but on
the effective porosity, permeability and depth of the weathered material
penetrated. In the Deccan Trap areas the basalt layers near the surface are
fractured sufficiently to function as aquifers if wells are located and
developed properly. About 35 - 40% of the Project area is in this category.
The remainder of the area consists of alluvium, weathered sandstone, lime-
stone, granites, gneiss, phillites, and other decomposition products. Yield
of wells in these areas will vary withi the local situation and it is there-
fore difficult to predict with any precision the yield of individual wells.
Based on the data available it is assumed however that the yield of all
but a few wells will be sufficient for installation of pumpsets. For the
purposes of water supply analysis for Project farm models detailed in
Annex 8, it is assumed that for wells located in the Deccan Traps and other
favorable formations yields would range from 171 m3/day (37,500 IGPD) in
October, to 102 m3/day (22,500 IGPD) in May. These are referred to in
Appendix 6-1 B as Type A Wells. For wells less favorably situated yields are
estimated to range from 114 m3/day (25,000 IGPD) in October to 68 m3/day
(15,000 IGPD) in May and these are referred to as Type B Wells. For inter-
mediate periods yields would vary proportionately. The yield of wells varies
with the magnitude of drawdown and the maximum can be obtained immediately
after the monsoon rains when water levels are at their highest. Likewise
the minimum drawdown occurs in May and early June at the end of the dry
season, and well yields will be minimum at this time. There will also be
a few wells wiich despite the best technical advice will not penetrate
favorable water-bearing zones and their yields, estimated at not more than
25 m3/day at any time of the year, will be too low to justify the installa-
tion of a pumpset. These will be fitted witlh Persian wheels and are referred
to as Type C Wells.



A%NNEX 1
Page 8
State Directorate of Tubewells and Groundwater Surveys
25.       DTGS was originally established in 1963 for the purpose of tube-
vce1l exploration and development; its scope was extended in 1971 to include
groundwater surveys and thus aspects of development concerning dugwells.
The groundwater survey wing of DTGS has established three field survey
divisional offices, ten sub-divisional offices, and 25 district survey
offices, and its total geohydrological staff is comprised of 43 officers,
58 junior executives and 145 surveyors as of April 1972. Apart from the
director whose previous background has been in irrigation engineering,
the Directorate has a senior advisor on temporary secondment from Sagar
iUniversity.
26.       Although many of DTGS staff are well qualified academically, there
is generally little experience in groundwater investigations and the organi-
zation will need considerable strengthening both qualitatively and quantita-
tively if the proposed Project is to be implemented to the required standards
and criteria. While much of the strengthening at the field level can be met
by appointments of newly qualified graduates there is a dearth of officers
in the middle and top ranks who have the capacity to organize surveys and
appraisal programs, to teach junior staff in procedures and methods and to
introduce modern techniques not only in groundwater studies but also in data
handling and analysis. The Central Groundwater Board (CGWB) the recently
establislhed all-India groundwater agency has available for attachment to the
state directorates a cadre of specialists following its take-over of the
groundwater wing of the Geological Survey of India (GSI); CGWB has agreed in
principle to make available up to 5 persons from this cadre for Nadhya
Pradesh.
Project Equipment
27.       Well boring is carried out by the State's Agro-Industries
Corporation (AIC) which now operates 30 drills and private contractors.
It is estimated that under the Project, the number of wells to be bored
annually would increase from about 2,500 to about 8,000 and for this purpose
an additional 70 pneumatic drills togethier with air compressors and spare
parts would be included in Project financing. AIC at present charges
farmers a commercial rate of Rs 7.0 per foot for drilling.
January 19, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
MLADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PPOJECT
Land. Development
Background
1.        The application and control of irrigation water on the farm has
only in recent years become fully appreciated in India. In some of the
earlier irrigation schemes it was considered that the provision of water was
the only important factor and it was left to farmers to arrange their on-farm
system and irrigation practices. It is now realized that the provision of
channels down to the farm level is essential and that in many instances
preparation of farm fields to control the water is also essential.
Uncontrolled irrigation may result in excessive applications in some parts
of the command area and inadequate applications in other parts, resulting
in water-logging, soil deterioration and low yields. To prevent such
conditions, land shaping is needed so that application of irrigation water
can be controlled.
2.        In Madhya Pradesh, land development needs are centered on the
established Chambal irrigation scheme in Morena district in the north-western
part of the State, on the Tawa irrigation scheme now under development in
Hosangabad district in the south-western part and on minor irrigation,
mainly dugwell schemes which are scattered throughout the State. Past
failures and research projects have brought a greater awareness of land
development needs and some of its attendant difficulties but relatively
little is known about the technologies involved and there is no real
appreciation of the size of the task involved in carrying out land
development over large areas as against small demonstration projects. In
consequence there is a serious lack of managerial, technical and organiza-
tional capacity which must be corrected soon if Droposed schemes over the
next few years are to be developed to the required standards.
Land Shaping Methods
3.        Land shaping is carried out by manual labor, by animal power, by a
variety of farm machiines or by a combination of these methods. Because of
small farm sizes, often unconsolidated (see para 5) manual labor using the
basket method is often favored, particular on small well schemes. This is
however relatively inefficient and time consuming, one hectare of land
requiring on average 700 man days to prepare for relatively efficient
irrigation. Labor for this type of work is difficult to recruit and will
only be undertaken if no other work is available. Animal power, particularly
bullocks is frequently used but is only available when the animals are not



Li. '1,EX 2
Page 2
required for land preparation and harvesting and as this tends to be at the
hottest time of the year when the ground is very hard, their effectiveness
is very considerably reduced.
4.        More recently bulldozers or wqheel tractors with rear blades have
become increasingly used for land shaping or levelling.  While bulldozers
have the advantage of being able to move large volumes of earth over short
distances, they have the disadvantages of being unable to shape large tracts
of land to precise gradients, of exposing sub-soils and of being expensive
to operate (about Rs 3/m3). At best tney can only be used either in conjunc-
tion with other more suitable machines or with manual labor or animal power.
5.        In Madhya Pradeslh there are two particular problems which have a
bearing on land shaping methods. The first of these is the prevalence of
hieavy black cotton soils which are easily waterlogged particularly during
the exceptionally heavy monsoon storms which are characteristic of the area.
In these conditions it is essential that land be shaped to very precise
gradients and research at the Agricultural University at Jabalpur and other
field trials has indicated that surface drainage slopes should not exceed
0.6G%.  Second is the problem of fragmented farms and small fields often
demarcated by high bunds which tend to confine land shaping within existing
contours and cause many irregularly graded fields. Effective land shaping
and drainage often depends on the ability to carry out suclh development over
large areas reflecting the natural contour but this in turn depends on the
willingness of farmers to cooperate in agreeing to have this work done.
The Madhya Pradesh Land Improvement Schemes Act of 1967 permits the
Government to regulate the construction of water courses, drains and
carry out land shaping on surface irrigation schemes but at least two-thirds
of the farmers in the area to be developed first have to agree to the
arrangement. Often farmer's agreement is not forthcoming or government
officials are not anxious to press such schemes on them.  A piecemeal
approach is thus often the result providing a constraint on the methods
of land shaping and leading to incomplete or inadequate irrigation and
drainage facilities.
6.        A crucial element in this work is therefore scheme design.
Surveying and the preparation of contour maps is the responsibility of the
Soil Conservation Service (SCS) of the Department of Agriculture and while
thi.s is done to adequate standards, areas are not staked in the field thus
necessitating continuing supervision from the SCS in directing soil movement.
Lap,! ssUould in future be staked approximately at 30 m intervals and marked
withi the appropriate cut or fill information so that equipment operators
thliemselves can judge the land shaping requirements.
Implementing Agencies
7.        Most of the land development and shaping in Madhya Pradesh is
carried out by State government agencies and organizationally this is split
between the agricultural engineering wing of the Department of Agriculture
and the State Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC, Annex 3), the former at



ANNEX 2
Page 3
present being responsible for work on the Chambal irrigation scheme and the
latter for work at Tawa. Although land shaping at Chambal and Tawa is not
included in the Project (para 9), the operations of AIC are important as it
is expected that they will progressively take over work from the engineering
wing. Private contracting is not well developed in Madhya Pradesh although
AIC is trying to encourage it through increasing its volume of subcontracting.
Most land shaping or levelling on small and scattered well schemes tends to
be done by small firms or by larger farmers who hire out labor and farm
machinery. The tractor population in the State is however very low (about
4,000) and such work therefore tends to be done by manual labor or animal
power--if it is done at all.
8.        UNDP has had a land reclamation demonstration project of about
1,000 ha on the Rajasthan side of Chambal command area in which the land
of a number of farmers was shaped in one block and, after consolidation,
farmers' boundaries were realigned to give them more rectangular fields.
The UNDP manager has also carried out a similar demonstration on about
100 ha at Tawa in Madhya Pradesh. Although the UNDP project in Rajasthan
is now completed, it is proposed that it should be extended in a modified
form by the UNDP which would carry out demonstrations on a number of land
development schemes in several states. If approved, it is expected that
the Tawa irrigation scheme would be included as a continuing demonstration
model.
Project Development Program
9.        Although the State Government had requested the inclusion of 4,000
ha of land development on the Tawa irrigation scheme and 3,600 ha in Chambal,
this has been left out of the Project in view of the fact that the appraised
IDA project for Tawa proposes finance for on-farm development and land
shaping equipment. Although this project has not yet been negotiated owing
to policy differences on the procurement of civil works, it is hoped that
this issue may yet be resolved and that the project may proceed. IDA pro-
poses the preparation of a project in the Chambal area of Rajasthan and the
technique developed can then be applied to Madhya Pradesh. The recent
Irrigation Review Mission concluded that land shaping should form part of
a command area development program and not to be dealt with piecemeal under
credit projects.
10.       The scope of land development and shaping under this agricultural
credit Project is therefore limited to an estimated 36,000 ha on well schemes
under the dugwell program. The latter which represents about one-third of
the land expected to benefit from this irrigation would be undertaken by
small contractors or by the farmers themselves and a provision of Rs 500
per ha is considered adequate in view of the limited nature of these schemes.
January 19, 1973






ANNEX 3
Page 1
Ii-DIA
MADIIYA PRADESII AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Madhya Pradesh Agro-Industries Corporation
Organization and Management
1.        In accordance with the general policy of the Government of India
to encourage the development of farm mechanization and agro-industries
througl the establisliment of public sector corporations in each State,
the Madhya Pradesh Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) was incorporated as a
limited liability company on March 21, 1969. It has an authorized capital
of Rs 25 million (US$3.47 million), subscribed equally by GOI and Madhya
Pradesh Government. The paid-up capital as of April 1972 was Rs 11.5 mil-
lion (US$1.6 million). AIC's Board presently comprises thirteen directors
including representatives of GOI, the State legislature farming interests,
and its managing director (who is a member of the Indian Administrative
Service).
2.        Like similar corporations in other States, AIC is intended to
operate as a commercial organization. Under its Memorandum ard Articles
of Association the Corporation has wide powers, including:
(a) the promotion and operation of enterprises for the
manufacture of agricultural inputs;
(b) the establishment of industries and projects for the
processing and distribution of agricultural products;
(c) the provision for sale or hire of farm machinery,
agricultural implements, processing and other types
of equipment required for agriculture, including dairy
farming, poultry farming, fisheries and allied
industries;
(d) the maintenance and servicing of farm machinery and
other equipment; and
(e) the provision of managerial and technical guidance for
agro-based industries.
3.        The Corporation's head office and main work shlops are in Bhopal,
with sale-service centers in Raipur, Satna and Gwalior, well revitaliza-
tion units in Indore, Chhindwara, Mandsaur, Tkamgarh, and Sagar, and a



wNNEX 3
Page 2
3,000 acre mcchanized farm at Babai which will produce quality seed.
Presently the Tawa land shaping unit is being set up at Itarsi. As of
April 1972, the Corporation had a total staff of about 170.
Operations
4.        The main activities of AIC have been the sale and distribution
of tractors imported under bilateral trade agreements with eastern
European countries, supplemented with a few domestic tractors in 1971-72.
A total of approximately 1,925 tractors had been handled by AIC from March,
1969 to liarch, 1972. AIC also handles and distributes locally built tractor
implements and fabricates disc harrows at its Bhopal workshop from imported
blades. Tractor custom services are also provided at most centers. Rates
range from Rs 30 per hour for a 65 hp tractor to Rs 19 per hour for a 25 hp
tractor, with an additional charge of 25% for ploughing. At present, 40
tractors are working under this program.
5.        Revitalization of wells has been another major activity.  The
Corporation now has 30 air compressors equipped with horizontal drilling
equipment located at six centers. The custom rate for boring is Rs 7.00
per foot and a total of 2,500 wells have so far been successfully drilled.
6.        AIC has been given the responsibility of the on-farm land
shaping, ditching and drainage in the Tawa command area. AIC had planned
to begin this work by April, 1972, but delays in securing indigenous
equipment (dozer blades., land planes, bucket scrapers and excavators) have
resulted in a slow start. The only equipment at Itarsi in March, 1972
was 50 K-7 Hanomag crawler tractors without dozer blades.
7.        The Corporation's cool storage facilities are nearing completion
in Indore and Chhindwara. These facilities will enable the farmers to do
a better job of marketing their vegetables, fruits and flowers. Negotia-
tions are currently underway to establish a fertilizer manufacturing plant
in Madhya Pradesh, to be operated by AIC.
Financial Results
8.        AIC made a profit in its first operating period to March 31, 1970
of Ps 168,000 and of Rs 207,000 in the year to March 31, 1972.
January 19, 1973



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANICE CORPORATION
Condenz_ed Statements of Net Inccms!
For Fiscal Years 1965,/66 - 9g7i/72
1965'66         1966/67          1967/68          196842           1969170 _         197071           1974272
Rs M    7  oof   RfM        f    RsM        of    Rs M     W  or   Rs M    'A        Rs M    6 of    Rs M 1of
Total           Total            Total            Total             Total            Total            Total
Income           Income          Income           Incone    __n_eIncooe              Income    o_ Incme
INCOME
Interest Earned on:  IDA Projects                 -        -                                                                                             0. 99     i.6
Other Loans and Debentures    1.09    25.1   3.o6    61.3   4.83        80.5   10.20    92.4   24.09   88.31    40.12    94.1    57.79    95.4
Interest on Investments and other Income          3.25     74.9   1.92      38.7   1.17      19.5   00.84      7.6     3.18   11.69     2.54     5 9      1.81     3.0
Total Incce                                 4.34    100.0   4.98   100.0   6.00    100.0   11.04   100.0   27.27  100.0    42.66  1oo.o    60.59   100.0
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on: Borrowings for IDA Projects                 o-        -            -       -                -       -         -       -        -        0.6      0.1
Other Borrowings                -        -      -         -      o.46       7.8    4.42    40.0   17.07   62.60    30.80    72.2   44.o6    72.7
Salaries, Allowance, Consultants' Fees,
and EDployee Benefits                             0.36      8.4   0.47       9.5    0.91     15.2     1.43    13.0    2.04    7.48       3.40     8.o     3.92     6.5
General and Administrative Expenses               0.11      2.6   0.13       2.6    0.29      4.8    0.43       3.9    1.42    5.21      1.48     3.4     1.59     2.6
Depreciation of Assets                            0.01      0.1   0.01       0.3.   0.01      0.1     0.01      0.1     0.02    0.07     o.o4     0.1    0.07      0.1
Total Expenses                               o.48      11.1   0.61     12.2   1.67      27.9     62       57.o0    2.55   75.36    35.7    83.7   49.70    82.0
NET ICOCME BEFORE TAXES                                3.86     88.9   4.37      87.8   4.33      72.0    4.75    43.0    6.72   24.64        6.94    16.3    10.89    18.0
Taxes Paid or Payable                             2.27     52.2    2.40     48.3   2.38       39.6    2.61    23.7      3.70   13.56     L.44     8.1     5.75      9.5
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                                 1.59     36.7   1.97      39.5   1.95      32.4    2.14    19.3       3.02   11.08     3.50     8.2     5.14      1.r
January 24, 1972



INDIA
MADDYA PRADESH AGRlICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED STATEHENT OF NET I C  E
For Fiscal Years 1971/72 - 1975/76
1971/72               1972/73                 1973/74                  1974/75                1975/76
% of                  % of                    % of                     % of                    % of
Rs M   Total Income    Rs M Total Income    Rs M   Total Income    Rs M   Total Inco8   Rs m   Total Income
1/
Interest Earned on:   IDA Projects                     0.99         1.6        25.69     24.5        67.46       39.0         92.23        36.9     107.08       32.9
Other Loans and Debentures    57.79         95.4        79.01     75.4       105.21       60.9        157.38        63.0     217.85       67.0
Other Income                    1.81         3.0         0,10       0.1        0.10        0.1          0.10         0.1        0.10       0.1
Total Ineome                                     60.59       100.0       104.60    100.0       172.77      100.0        249.71       100.0     325.03      100.0
2/
Interest Paid on: Borrowings for Lp4 Projects          0.06         0.1       14.20       13.6      40.19        23.3         60.17        24.1       74.82     .23.0
Other BorrowingsV                   44.06       72.7       61.83       59j0      87.03        50.4        126.06        50.5      168.67      51.9
Salaries and Consultants' Fees                          3.92        6.5        4.30        4.1       6.40         3.7          8.23         3.3       10.60       3.3
General Administrative Expenses                         1.59        2.6        2.05        2.0       2.45         1.4          2.95         1.2        3.95        1.2
Depreciation of Assets                                 0.07         0.1        0.05                  0.05                      0.05                    0.05
Total Expenses                                   49.70        82.0       82.43      78.7      136.12        78.8        197.46        79.1     258.09       79.4
INCOM  BEFORE TAXES                                         10.89        18.0      22.37       21.3      36.65        21.2         52.25        20.9       66.94       20.6
Income Tax Due                                         5.75         9.5       11.57       11.0      18.96        11.0         27.04        10.8       34.64      10.7
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                                       5.14         8.5      10.80        9.0       17.69        10.2         25.21       10.1       32.30        9.9
1/   At 6k2 per annm  on all loans made after July 1, 1970; 62 per anu  on all earlier loans.
So 5J4 per anum  for loans up to nine years and 5-3/4 per annum for loans up to 15 years.
3/ On the basis of the following interest rates, 4k% per annuo on share capital; 4k2 per *nnus on RBI (LTO) Punds; 5k2 per annum on borrowings from GOI on nor  l- 
schemes; and 5.8% per annum on open market borrowings.
January 25, 1973



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTUOAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
CONDENSED BALAEE SHEETS
At the End of Fiscal Years 1965/66 - 1971172
1965/66          1966/67                  1V67/68                   1968169                   1969/70                   1970/71                   1971/72
Change from              Change from              Change from               Change from               Clange from               Change from
Rs   M    Rs N   Previous Date    Rs M   Previous Date    Rs M   Previoua Date    Rs M   Previous Date    Rs M   Previous Date    Rs M   Previous Date
ASSETS
CZaah on Hand and in  oanks                     0.02     G.06        0.04          0.09        0.03         0.06       (0.03)         0.04       (0.02)       100.01      99.97          0.21      (99.80)
Inveatments                                    55.21    35.79      (19.42)         8.40      (27.39)        5.14       (3.26)        24.99       19.35          0.20     (24.79)           '        (0.20)
Loans                                           1.47     3,03        1.56          7.35       4.32         25.49       18.14         42.93       17.44         76.95      34.02        137.72       60.77
tebeauices PuroHased                           47.53    66.73       19.20        119.04       52.31       278.'5      159.51        546.04      267.49        812.39     256.35      1,096.38      283.99
Other Assets                                    2.34      3.38       1.04          6.46        3.08         13.58       7,12         17.31        3.73         27.30        9.99        37.39       10.09
Totl Assets                              106.57   108.99        2.42        141.34       32.35       322.82      181.48        631.31      308.49      1,016.35     385.54      1,271.70      254.85
LIABILITIES 4ED CAPIEAL EQUITY
Loans from Government of India & Others        50.00    50.00         -           30.00       30.00       257.50      177.50        556.38      299.38       d62.13      305.25      1,132.31      270.18
Special Deposits                                2.39      j.64       1-L5          ;.90        1.26         6.15        1.25          7.40        1.25          9.65        1.25         9.70        1.25
Other Liabilities                               4.18      5.35       1.16        _ 6.44        1.09         9.16        2.72         16.94        7.78         93.77      75.33       _ 25.12      (68.65)
Total LiabiLities                         56.57    58.99        2.42         91.34       32.35       272.81      181.47        581.22      308.41        964.55     383.33      1,167.33      202.78
Capi.sl - Paid-up                              30.00    50.03         -           50.C0         -           50.00        -           50.00         -           50.00         -          100.00      50.00
Reserves and Surplus                             N         N          N             N           N           0.01        1.1           0.09        0.e18         2.30        1.40         4.37        2.07
Tatul C4rital Zquity                     -0.0       3.20 -l                 50.00         3            0.3l       0.31         50.09        (.10         52.30        1.;0       104.37       52.07
Total L!2bilities & Vi Cital Equity       X6.37  ioa.s;         2.i2        141.34       32..S       322.82    BlI.43          K,1.31       ;,.49      l,C16.d5         , S4.7 5  1,271.70    254.,'c--
1/     Includes: Rs. 277 million public bond issIXs; Rs.771 million from Central Governrent; Rs. 84 inillion from Reserve Bank of India.
N G Negligible                                                                                                                                                                                                 W 4
January 25, 1973



I h D r A
MAIEYA PRADESH AGRICULrURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFLNANCE CORPORATION
PROJErTED BALANCE SFHETS
At the End of Fiscal Years 1971/7S - 1975/76
June 30  T97une5o1972 4                                    June 30, 975                  JTune 30, 1976
h~~efr~~ 1             Chane fro                     CWtenefrcmhne6~                                             Cag   ~
-R M    Previous Dater         Rs 14    Previous Date        Rs M     Previous Date        Rs       Previous Date         Rs      Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks                      0.21      (99.80)               o.60        0.39              0.70         0.10             o.80         0.10             0.90         0.10
Investments                                     -         (0.20)              10.00       10.00             20.00        10.00            20.00         -               20.00
Loans and Debentures:  IDA Project            53.71       53.71              736.71      683.00          1,338.71       602.00        1i,498.71       160.00         1,795.71       297.00
Others               1,180.39     291.05            1,421.41      241.02          2,031.41       610.00         3,091.41     1,060.00          3,931.41       840.00
Other Assets                                  37.39       10.09               30.00        (7.39)           40.00        10.00            70,00        30.00            30.00        10.00
Total Assets                            1,271.70      254.'5            2,198.72      927.02          3,430.32    1,232.10          4,680.92     1,250.10         5,328.02     1,147.10
LIABILITIES AKD E ;IT
Loans frms GOI (IDA Funds)                    33.29       33.29              544.82      511.53          1,081.82       537.00         1,339.82       258.00         1,652.32        313.00
Other Loans from GOI and Other Sources     1,099.02      236.89            1,440.74      341.72          2,067.99       627.25         2,933.87       915.88          3,762.87       779.00
Other Liabilities                               35.0     (67.40)              53.49       18.47             61.40         7.21            72.41        11.01            57.46        (14.95
Total Lisbilities                        1,167.33     202.78            2,039.05      871.72          3,211.21     1,172.16         4,396.10     1,184.89          5,473 15     1,077.05
Capital Paid-up                              100.00       50.00              150.00       50.00            200.00        50.00           250.00        50.00            300.00        50.00
Reserves: At Beginniog of Year                 2.28         -                  4.37                          9.67          -              19.61         -                34.82         -
Projected Net Income                5.14         -                 10.80         _               17.69          -              25.21         -                32.30         -
Total. Available                    7.42         -                 15.17         -               27.36          -              44.82          _               67.12         -
Mandatory Dividend D'.e&/           3.05         -                  5.50         -                7.75          -              10.00          -               12.25         -
At the End of Year                  4.37        2.07                9.67        5.3              19.61         9.94            34.82        15.21             54.87        20.05
Total Capital Equity                      104.37       52.07              159.67       55.30            219.61        59.94           284.82        65.21            354.87        70.05
TOTAL LIBSILITI1S AVD E4J1Y               1,271.7 °                                             0 2,198.72  2702  3      1,232.102                     1,250.10           ,282 02        4.1
See Appendix 4-3.
/ Mandatory dividend of 4-1/4' apRlies to the initial Rs 50 million equity capital and 4-1/2% o, senare capital issued later.
January 25, 1973



IjiDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTUAL (CREtIT PROJECT
MADHYA PRADESH STATE OOPMRATIVE II)D D)EVELOPMENT BANK
Condensed Statement of Inece
For Fioa. Year .19%6/67-1970/71
1966/67          1967/68          1968/69          1969/70         1970/
%o               % of o             oP               of              of
Total            Total            Total            Total           Total
Rs'000  Income  Rs'000  Income  R3tooo  Income  Rs'000  Income RsO000  Income
INGOME
Interest earned on loans              3,373      89    4,817      85    6,863      84   10,005      82   12,084     83
Interest earned on investments          323       9      721      13    1,076      13     1,803     15    1,900     12
Other income                             87       2      135       2      262       3       357      3   - 785       5
Total Income               3,783     100    5,673     100    8,201     100    12,165    100   15,489    100
W===      VW= :   ==:    =am                W==                              VW= S   msm 
EXPENSES
Interest on debentures on loans       2,784      74    4,035      71    5,985      73     8,609     71  11,550      75
Administraticn                          322       8      496       9      783      10     1,264    10    1,280       8
Niscellansous                           100                                                                 60 377  7  40  5  340  3  6o6
Total Expenses             3,206      85   4,908       87    7,215      88    10,213     84  13,436      87
==a1::   S=.            =am- 1[tS                                ===ma =-=ccG= $s   --:
Net Income                   577      15      765      13      936      12     1,952     16    2,053     13
April 26, 1973



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CGondeNed ProJected Statement of Net Ineoe
for Fiscal Years 1971/72-1974/75
1971/72          1972/173           1973/74           1974/75  _ _1975/76 
Total            Total              Total             Total             Total
Rs'OOO  Income   Rs'OOO  Income   Rs'OOO  Income   Rs'OOO  Income   Rs'OOO  Income
IN.COME
Interest on Loans /I              18,100      85    25,382      86    38,312      88    51,675      88    64,000      88
Interest on Investments /2         2,150      10     3,088      10     4,125       9     5,500       9      6,000      9
Other Income                         975       5     1,130       4     1,363       3     -1,525      3      2,000      3
Total Income                 21.225    100    2           100       5 8.700    100     7 2,100        70
EXPENSES
Interest on Debentures and
Loans /3                        16,800      79    23,189      78    34,650      79    47,400      81    57,600      80
Administration                     1,500       7     2,200       8      3,000      7      3,45o      6     4,500       6
Miscellaneous                         525      2        711      2      1,000      2      1,250      2      1,500      2
Total Expenses               18, 825             8,89    2100  88            88     26                           88
Net Income                    2a40012                      12       120      12                11     8          12
a  Based on onlending to primaries at 790 p.a.
/2  Assumes average return of 50. 
a   Average rate of borrowing 61.
April 26, 1973



..d'iEx 4
Ta?ile 7
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Condensed Balance Sheets at End of Fiscal Years 1966/67-1970/71
(in Rs nillion)
June 30                      1967      1968     1969      197)     1971
AS3ETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks            2.77     4.38      6.14     1.U       1.32
Investments                          9.56    15.26    23.60    33.83    39.06
Loans                               57.08    85.04   115.64   160O10   199.37
Other Assets                         2.23     3.21      4.15     7.31      8.11
Total. Assets               71.64   10789               2         247.86
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Debentures and Ioans                60.97    90.50   123.15   170.53   222.67
Deposits                             2.83     4.68    11.38    14.26       2.52
Other Liabilities                    0.60     0.78      1.11   _I.O'       2.70
Total Liabilities           64.40    95.96              186.714
EQUITY
Paid-un Share Capital                5.61     9.37    10.30    10.93    13.10
Reserves and Profits                 1.6      2.56      3U      _          6.87
Total Equity                  .24    11.9              .89        19.97
Total Liabilities and Equity        71.64   107.89              0  03    247.86
April 26, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table U
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Condensed Projected Balance Sheets
at End of Fiscal Years 1971/72-1975/76
(in Rs million)
JunV 30                     1972      1973    1974      1975     1976
ASSETS
Cash on Ra.nd and in Banks         2.00     2.50     3.50     5.00    5.00
Investments /1                    55.00    75.00   100.00   130.00   165.00
Loans:
Under t4e Project /2              -        -      60.00   150.00   300.00
Others                         250.00   315.00   374.00   426.00   476.oo
Other Asspts                       9.90    10.00    14.00    15.00    15.00
Total Assets              316.90  402.50   551.250   726.00   961.00
LIABILITIES 4ND EQUITY
Debenturea and Loans             283.20   355.00   489.00   654.0o   873.00
Other Lia?ilities                 4.30     6.10      7.00    7.70     8.00
Paid-up Stare Capital             21.00    30.00   40.00   [45.00    55.00
Reserves #nd Profits            _8.4       11.40   15.90    19.    25.00
Total Lialbilities and Equity    316.90   402.50  551.$0   726.00   961.00
=~
L Mainly appropriations of Sinking Fund.
/2 Assumes jDB will lend about 64% of total Project remainder
by commercial banks.
April 26, 1973



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Details of Entimated Project Cost
First Year            Second Year      Third Year      Total Pro.ject
Unit             Total             Total            Total            Total
Cost    Units   Cost      Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost
(Rs)    Tha)   (Rs m)    (ha)  T%R  Tm)   (hGY    TI)        h      (Rs N)
Minor Irrigation                              -       -      86.0        -    150.5        -    193.5      -     430.0
Land Development
For well irrigation schemes                500   7,200    3.6      12,600    6.3   16,200    8.1  36,000    18.0
Total Lending Program                         -        -     89.6         -    156.8       -    201.6      -     448.0
Project Equipment
Well drilling                           60,000       70    4.2         -       -        -       _       _       4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          -    -        93.8         _    101.6
Ll  See Appendix 5-2 for- breakdown of total minor irrigation invest-mants.                                               |
Apri2 2h, 1973



IN1DI                           ANNRX 5
ADpendix 5-2
YLADFf:A PPADES1 S'G'.l) CUL;TUAI'L CREDIT PROJECT
Breakdown of Minor ! riration li nvestments
The following minor irrig&'Gion and rclased ir:vestraents have been assutmed in
the calculation of Project ciout., Tihey do not represent a firm investment program
but nonetheless broadly in'icate the iaiious i4tvestmerits likely to be made over the
Project period. Average unit costs (iiuclucing l10 allowance for cost increase) are
taken as follows:  new dugwell Rs 7,000, itvprovement to exdsting dugwell Rs 1,500;
electric punpsets Rs 3,000 and aitzctrlci;ty eo mection Rs 3,000; diesel pumpsets
Rs 4,500, persian wheel Rs 1,0O0 and :.rr lgdfioa piping Rs 350 for 30 m.
A. Composite Loans
BJectritC Pumnp                    Persian       Total
Well       & Conae6tino        Diesel Pump    Wdheel         Cost
.Tnits             25.000         16,000             7.800         1,200          --
Cost            Rs 175.0 m       Rs 96.0 n         Rs 33.1 m    Rs 1.2 m    Rs 307.3 m
B. Energization Loans
I,lnits             --             i,800             1,20t)          --           --
Cost                --           Rs 10.8 m             5s 54m        --       Rs  16.2 m
C. Improvement Loans
tUnits             15,O00         2.0000             3,5(00        1,500          --
Cost,          Rs  22.5 m       Rs 60.0 m          Rs 15.7 m    Rs 1.5 m    Rs  99.7 m
D. Irrigation Piping
It is estimated that about half, 39,300 l/ investments with electric or
diesel pumps would require 30 m of' p1ILng, 2J0 0 x is 3.50               Rs    7.0 m
GRA.ND TOTAL   Rs  43Q.2 m
E.  Pneumatic Drill Requirements
It is assumed that one-third of corrposite loans (8,00o in all well, improve-
ments would require supplemental boring-i,e., a total of 23,000 wells or say 8,000
annually.  On the assumption that one d;'f`A1l can bore 80 wells annually, 100 drills
less 30 drills now in the State would be 1'rquired: i.e, a total of 70.
1/  Total Investments:                             £nergized by:
Composite          25,000                      Electric Sets      27,800
Energization        3,!0C                     Diesel Sets         12,500
Improvements        _                          Persian Wneels      2,700
4. L A00                                       43, 000
July 27, 1972



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-3
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (Cumulation)
Minor         Land
Quarter Ending                    Irrigation   Develo mnt                Total
(Rs m)        (Rs m)          (Rs m)       (US$ m)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                          -                      -              -
December 31, 1973                   3.0             -             3.0            0 4
March 31, 1974                     14.0            0.5           17.0            2.3
June 30, 1974                      35.0            1.5           36.5            .9
1974/75
September 30, 1974                 69.0            2.0           71.0            9.5
December 31, 1974                  69.0            2.0           71.0            9.5
March 31, 1975                     93.0            3.0           96.0           12.8
June 30, 1975                     123.0            4.5          127.5           17.0
1975/76
September 30, 1975                163.0            6.5          169.5           22.6
December 31, 1975                 163.0            6.5          169.5           22.6
March 31, 1976                    183.0            7.5          190.5           25.4
June 30, 1976 L2                  223.0            8.5          231.5           30.9
1976/77
September 30, 1976                231.0            9.5          240.5           32.0
December 31, 1976 La              239.5           10.0          249.5           33.0
/ Estimated date of credit effectiveness.
/2 Estimated date of Project completion.
13 Closing date.
April 24, 1973






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
MADJIYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
Introduction
1.        This Annex is an explanation of the methodology and assumptions
adopted in preparing the illustrative farm models and their consequent
financial results and physical effects. Appendix 6-1 sets out the cropping
patterns, yields, production costs and gross production value for each of
the four models. In support of the four dugwell investment models, (Models
I to IV), Appendix 6-la details the estimated unit crop water requirements
in the two major crop regions in which the farm models are assumed to be
located and Appendix 6-lb gives the average monthly precipitation in each of
the two regions. The following two Appendices show the water requirements
(Appendix 6-1c) and relative sources of supply (Appendix 6-1d) for each of
these farm models. Appendix 6-2 gives the financial rates of return for
each investment and Appendix 6-3 shows the incremental net incomes to farmers
after debt service. Finally, Appendix 6-4 details estimated changes in
cropped area and production. The following paragraphs review the assumptions
for each of the Appendices.
2.        Appendix 6-1
(1)  Cropping Regions
Two cropping regions, I and II together representing the larger
part of the Project area have been adopted for the farm models. Region I
which broadly covers the western and southern parts of the State has been
taken as the cropping basis for model IV and Region II, covering the central
and northern parts, is the assumed location of models I-III. Crop Region I
has less rainfall and therefore a greater irrigation requirement than Crop
Region II.
(2) Dugwell Command Area and Farm Site
The command area is determined by the different levels of discharge
of the three types of dugwell (see Appendix 6-1c). In the case of Models
I, III and IV, the farm size could be larger than the command area specified,
any extra area being unirrigated. In Model II, the farm is not larger
than 1.5 ha, the surplus water availability being sold to another farm.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(3) Cropping Intensities
Cropping intensities do not exceed 140% because of the short period
between the kharif harvest and rabi sowing and because the availability of
supplementary on-farm power from tractors, necessary for higher levels of
cropping, cannot generally be assumed in Madha Pradesh.
(4) Family and Hired Labor
Family labor, assumed to be available to the extent of 2-1/2 man
days for 24 working days a month, or a total of 60 man days a month, has not
been costed for purposes of financial calculations. Any labor required in
excess of this is assumed to have been hired and has been costed at Rs 5
per day during the harvest season and Rs 3 per day at other times.
(5) Crop Prices
The following farm-gate prices have been assumed (Rs/ton):
Bajra (millet)             500
Chillies                  400
Cotton (mill seed)      1,800
Jowar (sorghum)            600
Maize                      700
Oil seed (linseed)       1,200
Paddy (rice)               600
Pulses                     900
Rape/mustard seed        1,500
Sugar cane                  80
Vegetables                 800
Wheat (local)              970
Wheat (M-iexican)          800
(6) Model I
This model assumes that a farmer already has a dugwell which is
powered by a persian wheel. The investment would comprise a bore drilling
and some structural improvement to the well (Rs 1,500), the installation of
an electric pump (Rs 3,000) with the consequent electricity connection
deposit (Rs 3,000) and some irrigation piping (Rs 350). The resulting "B"
type well (Appendix 6-1c) is capable of commanding 2-1/2 ha at a cropping
intensity of 138%.
(7)  Model II
The investment comprises a new dugwell (Rs 7,000) and a diesel
pumpset (Rs 4,500). No bore has been included because a high discharge
(well type "A") was achieved without it. As the borrowers farm comprised
only 1-1/2 ha, the loan would have been approved on his undertaking to sell
surplus water to his neighbor. The water surplus is adequate to irrigate
an additional 1 ha at a cropping intensity of 140%. The price of water
used at Rs 0.275/m3 is the current rate in Madhya Pradesh.



A1SNEX 6
Page 3
(8) .Iodel III
The investment comprises a new well, which was not dug to the usual
depth owing to the difficult rock formation, (Rs 5,600), a persian wheel
(Rs 1,000) and a pair of bullocks (Rs 1,300). Although it is assumed that
the farmer already has one pair of bullocks, an additional pair would be
required to operate the persian wheel for 8-10 hours daily. Their capital
cost as well as their feed requirements are therefore included in the model.
The effective command area is 1-1/2 ha.
(9) Model IV
This investment comprises a new dugwell (Rs 7,000) with a bore
(Rs 750), the installation of an electric pumpset (Rs 3,000) and electricity
connection deposit (Rs 3,000) together with land levelling on 2 ha at
Rs 500 per ha (Rs 1,000). The well command area is 3-1/2 ha with 139%
cropping intensity. With a 163% intensity the command area would fall to
3 ha but this higher level of cropping could not be anticipated owing to
lack of additional power sources for the rush period between Kharif harvest
and rabi planting.
3.        Appendix 6-la
(1) This table shows the estimated unit crop water requirements in the
two crop regions. Water requirements of crops were based on procedures
and data from "A Guide for Estimating Irrigation Water Requirements"
published by the Water M4anagement Division of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Government of India, July 1971. This procedure utilizes Class A pan evapora-
tion data published by the India Meteorological Department (Scientific
Report No. 146) and crop coefficients determined experimentally.
(2) Effective precipitation is the amount of monthly precipitation
utilized by the crops. Not all the precipitation in every month can be
utilized because the high intensities of rainfall during the monsoon period
cause surface runoff. The following criteria were used:
(a) Because of the small amount and irregularity of precipitation
none was considered effective except during the monsoon
months of June-September.
(b) The average monthly precipitation for all stations in the
crop region was computed for a 50-year period and reduced
by an 80 percent chance factor to obtain the monthly
modified precipitation.
(c) The adopted schedule of effective precipitation is as follows:
Modified        June           Precipitation         100%
Modified       July            Precipitation          50%
Modified        August         Precipitation          50%
Modified        September      Precipitation         100%



ANNEX 6
Page 4
For sugarcane it was assumed that 75% of the modified
precipitation during July and August would be effective.
The high values for this crop are justified by the high
density of foliage which prevents puddling of the surface
layers of soil thereby reducing runoff and increasing
infiltration. For paddy where fields are bunded to a
height of 10 centimeters it is assumed that the first
100 millimeters of precipitation would be retained within
the field for crop use and that 50% of the remaining
modified monthly precipitation would be utilized by the
paddy during July and August.
(3) In most of the Project area the soils were derived from the
weathering of basalts and therefore have an unusually large percentage
of clay having a high water-holding capacity. Studies at Jabalpur University
indicate that such capacities average 417 mm per meter of depth, of which
about 60% or 250 mm is readily available for plant use. The computation
of water requirements were made on a monthly basis and did not include
the utilization of carry-over soil moisture from month to month.
4.        Appendix 6-lb
This table gives the mean monthly precipitation in the two crop
regions.  The figures are a 50 year average.
5.        Appendix 6-ic
(1)  Using the crop water requirements (Appendix 6-la) this table
gives the supplementary (irrigation) water requirements of each of the
dugwell models (Models I-IV).
(2)  Dugwell Types
The following are the assumed water discharges of the three types
of well:
Type A
171 M3/day (37,500 IGPD) in October to 102 M3/day
(22,500 IGPD) in May
Type B
114 M3/day (25,000 IGPD) in October to 68 M3/day (15,000
IGPD) in May
Type C
Not less than 25 M3/day (5,500 IGPD) at any time during year.



ANN-X 6
Page 5
6.        Appendix 6-ld
This table shows the relative water supplied by rainfall and
by the well for each of the dugwell models.
7.        Appendix 6-2
(1) Life of Assets
The following life of assets is assumed; dugwell (including
bore) 20 years, electric or diesel pumpset 7 years; land develop-
ment 20 years.
(2) Increases in Incremental Flows
Model I assumes that the full benefit of the net incremental
flow would accrue in the third year as the farmer would have had
previous experience of irrigation. In models II to IV, the
build up to full benefits is slower and deferred to the fourth
year reflecting lack of experience with irrigation and little
accompanying experience with improved inputs.
8.        Appendix 6-3
(1) Repayment Periods and Interest Rate
The calculations of debt service are based on maximum
repayment periods (Schedule B) with an interest rate of 9%
per annum. In Model III, debt service on a loan for a
pair of bullocks has been included even though not financed
under the Project.
(2) Small Farmer Benefits
To be eligible for preferential lending terms (Schedule B),
under the agreed definition a farmer's post-investment total
net income from his farm may not exceed Rs 2,400 per annum;
net income is defined as after deducting the cost of cultivation
but before debt service on the loan. Appendix 6-3 shows
that for all except Model III this level of income is exceeded
and that, also with this exception total income after debt
service also exceeds Rs 2,400 annually at full development.
Model III is however exceptional in that the dugwell failed to
realize the income expected when the original loan was approved
and that original expected income would not have qualified the
borrower for 'small farmers' status.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
9.        Appendix 6-4
This table detailing estimated changes in cropped area and pro-
duction is based on the following aggregation of the farm models: Model I x
18,000; Model II x 6,000; Model III x 3,000; and Model IV x 15,000.
January 19, 1973



AONEx 6
Tl,,.dix  6-1
INDIA
M6ADHTA PRADSH AGRICULTUJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Ferm Models Usesd on Preset Costs and Prie..
Area                        Yield                  -Total Cost           Gross Prodoctco. V.I.!              Net Prod.ction Value
Poll                      F.11                        Foll                         P.1l                      Pc11
Before     Deelopment   Before    D3.  Im.t   Before   Development   Beforat   Development   Before    D-velpment    Increnent*l
--   --ha------ ---ton/:7ii                               --------------------I---------------------
MODEL 1:  Inv-tmet:WelIovme.
El-ctrIc Pops   (.750               .11
Coesmr,d Area; 2.5 ha   1/
Kh.rif.Crop.:
J ser                                                 0.40           0.35          2.0 2/        3.0          174            186        480           630            306            444              138
Paddy (RI)                                            0.50           0.20          3.0           3.0          386           134         900          360             514            206             (308)
Sug etcc ..!3/                                         --            0.15           --          72.0           --           428          --           864             --           436              436
Rabi Crope
Jol..: (non-irrigot.d)                               0.8 so                      0.6             --          179            --         432           --     -       253             --(253)
Poleu    irrgaced2                                     -            0.30            --           1.8           --           114          --          486              --            372             372
Sogaccsn_ 1/                                           --            0.15           --            --           --             --          --           --             --             --               -
Vegetablee  (Septembe-)                               0.20           0.40          3.5           5.5          163            327         800       1.760             717         1,433               716
VeXet.ble.  (January)                                  --            0.30           --           5.5            --           270          --       1,320              --         1,050            1,050
Wheatt (local 2)                                      05              --           1.0            --          236                       485           --249                         --(249)
Whea  IM..ian0. 30                                                   1.60          3.0           3.0          269         i.t3           720       3.840             451         2.405            1,5
2.70          3.43                                   1.407         22.014                                        O         6,346           3,5
Cropping Inteneity:         108%          138%
Hired Labor:              70           205                                      (70)         (205)            (135)
P-aPing Costa:             0           623      ___                               0          (6235            (623)
I4ODEL II:  Soveatment:  Inomell. Diesel PoePest                                              1.477         3.742       3.897         9.260          2.420         5.518477  742  7  9  60  2420  AIII3AO1
(R. 11.500t: Well Coend Aree   2.5 h.;
Pare Size: 1.5 he
Kherif Crops:
Jnrs                                                   0.25          0.25          0.9           3.0           43           133          133         450              92            317             225
Paddy (Rina)                                          0.10           0.15          1.5           3.0           17           116          90          270              73            154              01
Sog-rane 31                                            --            0.I0           --          72.0           --           2865          --         576              --            291             291
Rabi Crop.:
Ollsede                                               0.15            --           0.3            --           20             --          90           --             70             --              (70)
Polses                                                0.60          0.20           0.6           1.8          134             76        324           324            190            248               58
Snrre3/-                                                          0.10          -.--            -             --                        --                                         --
Vegetbles!                                             --            020 O                       5.5           *-           163           --          880              *-           717              717
Wheat (local)                                         oso             -            1.0            -           236-                      485            -             249             -              (249)
Wheat (O.Lecn ...                                                    1.10           --           3.0           --           987           --       2.640              --         1.653165
,1.60        2T.1                                                  ___510__30                                                               2,0
C-opplog Intensity:         107%          14.6 OX,40330                                                                                                                  ,0
Wse of Water:                                                   2,776                         2.776             2,77
5,482
Pomptog costs:                                                  1.732          __            (1.732)          (1.732)
~~   _____  ~~~~~~ 11Z2-4      6 184             674         4.2               .505
MODEL III:  I- -etoet:    ""I'l.On Pir Ocioh . Preien71
Wheel (R. 7.9001. Well Cao  Area 1.5 ha
Eh.rif Crop.:
JO-a                                                  0.20          0.53           0.9           2.3           3,4          239         108          759              74           520              446
Paddy (Rits)                                          0.10          0.20           1.3           3.0           17           154          90          360              73           206              133
PolI.e                                                0.60           -            0.6             --          134            --         324           --             190            --             (190)
R.hi Crop.:
OlIseed. (linsed.)                                    olo            -            0.5             --           14             --         60           --              46            --              (46)
Pl. (nnirrigated)                               --           0.70           --            1.2           --           245          --          756              --           311              51
Vopet,blee                                             --           0.20            --           5.5           --           163          --          000                           717              7 17
Wet I(ool                                           0.30           --           1.0            --          236             --        485            --249                         --(249)
Wheat (Weolcac)                       --          ~~~~~           ~~     ~     ~~~~         ~     ~      ~~~~0.40  --  30 -.  359  -. 960            .-601                         601
1.30          2.05                                                 1,160 4/                                               2.555            1.923
Cropping IntensIty:         1001          137% 
Po11oobe Peed:                           250                                   ____            (2505            (250)
MODEL. IV: Inv-t-et:  Rn-tmboeWel Eetric Pf.cenaer,                                                                             45          Z:::       Za               I:62                       235_6
Mino PFr  D. lnmn  (s141735:Well Comad Are:35h
Khanif Crop.:
cotton                                                0.25          0.60          0.4            1.3          122           667         180        1,404              50           737              679
So,er                                                 1.10          0.40          0.9            3.0          187           212         594          720            407            50810
MIai..                                                0.40            --           2.2            --          261            --         616           --             355            --             (13555)
Po1...                                                0.90          0.90          0.6            1.8          202           342         486        1,458            294          1.116              832
Pnddy (Rice)                                           --           0.30           *-            3.0           -.           232          --          540              -.           308              308
Rabi Crops:
th,Iisce-                                                           0.15            --           9.2           --           121          --          552              --431                         431
Otlaad: (los...ed.)                                 0.35            --           0.5            --           48            --         21            Z-12                          --(162)
Repe and  6.ot.rd                                      --           0.75            --           2.0          .-            326          --        2,250              *-         1,924           1.924
Wheat (local)                                         0.65            -.           1.0            --          306            --         630           --             325            --(3)
Wheat  (Mecican)               --           1.75           *-          ~~~~           ~~ ~ ~~~~~~               ~~~ ~~~~~            ~ ~~~~~3.0  -- 1.570  .. 4,200  --  2.630  2,3
3.65          4.-85                                                3,470                                                   .5 
Cropping  Intensity:  104%     ~~~~~139%      Hired Labor:                             310                                                   (310)            (310)
Ponpiog costs:                           746                                                    76(46
_IA126_  4j52611.24                          1591          6.598            5.007
/PrcOsirrigati-n by Pe...ian Whee.J
2/Geroiotion by ralofe11, ftinihed sitb irrigatie..
3/P-or..ca1 crop.
4/No hired labor.
N/ We  -1lce of Inceaental prodontion:  year 1:  45%               1.218 + 2,776- 1.732 *2.262
yser 2:  70%        1.894 + 2.7776 -1,:732    2,4938
year 3:  90%        2.434 .9 2,776 -1732    3,478
Joly 6, 1972






INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CRCDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED UNIT CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
|   CRDP I                        JAN            FEB           MAR            APR             MAY           JUN            JUL            AUG           SEPT           OCT            NOV            DEC
-USVARD&RAPE                                                   S-
3ok,    21k,
PADDY                                                                          MM onks             m                                                        NINE 11"
MOOEAT. MEXICAN*
VEGETABLES                                                                                                                                           E       _
2w.M
GRAM  IPULSE)                                                                                                                                                EU                                     _      1
CHILLIES                      MNNENv W                      -               _.
L..d Pop ktoc
DOTTON                                                                           on] P;E_
JOWAR                                                                                                                                                              MM". 
CROF EGIOq I:
C          -rs.  se roef. k                                                                                   0 09           1.20          10.9            0.80
Plooaooto                                                                                    480.00         420.00         279.00         209.00         100.00
Eoopotronsplracion -                                                                                        458.00         335.00         249.00         155.00
Effe- i_ rainfall                                                                              0             79.00         215.00         200.00         105.00
Crop i-rb. -eq',. -81                                                                        000.00         379.00         020.00          40.00          50.00
FEr, del.  eq't. 751 eEf,                                                                    133.00         505.00         160.00          53.00          66.00
Cr-p Ape  h.                                                                             ----0--   --   .0 ---------------- ------
Vol. -Ae-  -d   3                                                                          1.330 00       5.05000 D      1,6O.D0          530.00         660.00
Chilli..
Co...  .e co -f. k                                0.16           0.57           0.65           0.57
PlO e1.p ,t       e                             0S2.00         279.00         390.00         480.00
Rvopolroosploalioo t=                            29.00         159.00         254.00         274.00
RPPectove ra.nfall tr0                                           0              0              0
Crop irig. 0101. In                              29.00         159.00         254.00         274.00
FPrn del. req'R. 757.  ff.                       38.00         212.00         338.00         363.00
Crop orlo ho.                                _ __ ___ ___* ---- 1.0.--- -------          ______ _-
Vol.  -oleroeq'd. I3                            380.00       2,120.00       3,380.00       3,650.00
Cotton
Cons.  1, -00f. k                                                                              0.25           0.09            1.06           0.88           0.60           0.20
P00 PooporaROon to                                                                           400.00         420.00         279.00         209.00          180.00         186.00
Mvopotooospirooioo r                                                                         120.00         374.00         29 .00         104.0          10080            37.00
RCEf CO-e-  -oOol                                                               0              0             79.00         115.00         109.00         10 5.00           0
Crop i-ig. req't.  o                                                           75.00         120.00          95.00         181.00          75.00           0             37.00
F.-A del. req't. 75  eff.                                                     100.00         160.00         126.00         241.00         000.00            0            49.00
Cr0000re ha.                                                                             -----------                1.0 ---------------------.0----------------------------
VoI.    oer req'.                                                           1000.00        1600.00        1.260.00       2,4l0.00       1,000.00            0           490.00
Wh80t (ReoioO"O
Cool.  Sec ooef. k                 0.67           0.12           0.10                                                                                                                     0.77           1.10
P00 rvopoorboo tAo               140.00         182.00         279.00                                                                                                                   157.00         140.00
EvaproloEp rorbon tc              94.00          22.00          26.00                                                                                                                   121.00         154.00
Effecti-e ra-L.fll                 0              0               0                                                                                                                       0              0
Crop irig. rIqt.                  94.00          22.00          28.00                                                                                                                   120.00         154.00
F0  del. r-qt. 757 off.          125.00          29.00          03.00                                                                                                                   161.00         205.00
Cwlp                N    e       --- ______ -----     ---    1.a  ----    _____ __ ....... ----------     ------------
Vol. vater raq't. *l~          1.250.00         290.00         370.00                                                                                                                 1,610.00       2,050.00
00100 OrrOgaROoO                 750.00         750.00           0                                                                                                                        0              O
Toal    er rqd.                2    .00       1,040.00         370.00                                                                                                                 1.610.00       2.050.00
C0. .e  -leP.                                                                                                                                               0.09           0.63           0.58           0.30
PEs  -vapoa...tio   q                                                                                                                                      08.00         186.00         157.00         140.00
Epapooaopo 3rarloe -                                                                                                                                       54.00         117.00          90.00          42.00
Effe-l-e roOiOel _,                                                                                                                                        63.00           0              0              0
Crop i110g. reqq'. tq-                                                                                                                                      0            117.00          91.00          42.00
Poes del. 10q'1. 757. eff.                                                                                                                                               156.00         121.00          56.00
V.I. -ateR  -oq'd. r3                                                                                                                                                  1,560.00       1210 -00         560600
Cp00. 08.0081.0                                                                                                0.52           0.79           1.09           0.70
Pa.  e-oporolioo am                                                                                         420.00         279.00         209.00          100.00
OlapoOral.pOro100l -                                                             ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~        ~~~210.00  220.00  228.00  126.00
Effe-hiV- roloOml =                                                                                          79.00           3 05.00       009.00°         05.00
Crop 00iig. req't.                                                                                          139.00          00.00          019.0D          21.00
Fardl-b5. rfq... rc 75i  0ff                                                                                105.00          040.00         150.00          20.00
CroP -081 ha                                                                                                     --  -- --- 1.0 ---------- -------- ..
Yo1. col-r r-q'd. ta3                                                                                     1.850.00       1.400.00       1 580000          2h0.00
P10800 (Cr0-)
Cola. 0,00000. k                                                                                                                                            0.27           0.77           0.20
Pa.  eoOporllo nll                                                                                                                                        000.00         106.00         157.00
EvOp-00010pCr00io  =                                                                                                                                       40.00         043.00          30.00
Ef010ti 1 r-WoColl EX                                                                                                                                    105.00           0              0
Coop "r'ig.   9't6. E&                                                                                                                                      0            143.00          31.00
FP.O del -'T. = 757. ff.                                                                                                                                    0            190.00          41.00
V     ol   req'd.I . .                                                                                                                                      0-- 410.00
Mos-t-d aod R0p0 o
Coo..  .p 0010. k                  0.77           0.20                                                                                                                     0.13           0.49           0.79
100 eoOporalOoo Pm               140.00         102.00                                                                                                                   006.00         157.00         140.00
Ooapooooooporarioo  =0~          100.00          36.00                                                                                                                    32.00          77.00         110.00
Eff08ti00   rCoCall                0              0                                                                                                                        0              0              0
Crop 10ig. r-q'P. =             108.00          36.00                                                                                                                    32.00          77.00         110.00             8
Fool dI.1,                       145 .  00       48.00                                                                                                                    42.0          000            146.00
.Vol. -t-0  req'd. H3          L,40.00   H480.00                                                                                                                         400.00      0102000         1,






INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED UNIT CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
JAN           FEB            MAR             APR            MAY            JUN             JUL            AUG             SEPT           OCT            NOV            DEC
H~tv
WH,EAT, MEXICON
SUGARCANE                                                                                                                                
N--,    T,- PI- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~urar               ras Ia,
JECWPASLESARLY,                                                                                          .                                ihUflih                                                   
CRAM (PULSE1)                 _____             E
VEGACOOLES , LATE)7
JOWAR1 LATE)                                                                                                JU U                                                      
CROP RECION 0T:
Wh-ot (Wroc-n
C           -a.  s    e.k C       R67             0.12            0. D                                                                                                                         077            1.ER
Pas  evaporaos                   77.50          104.00          1                                                                                                                           120.00          0.00 O
Eve                              52nprei0 SR     17 RO              00                                                                                                                         2.0R         11  RR
Ef  erE-ae-iofoll                 R                       0                                                                                                                                    0              I
Crop brIg8. req'r. a             5.00            IPOR            22.00                                                                                                                        92.R          119.0
Pec  el  rq. 750  eE               9.00          22.00           29R                                                                                                                         0220.00        079.00
Croppr  area le.1................I.........................
Vo.  W..er r.qO 0               69000           2200.00 ..... 2"9R0. 00                                                                                                                   1,270.00        1,580.O0
Totl vo. reM' 9f              1,440.00          970.00          290.00                                                                                                                    1.720.00        0.500,00
Con.  I00coE  k                   0.30            0.42            0.52           0.70            0.09            0.90           1.05            1.00d          1.13            1.10            1.20           1.19
Pan eopro _a                     77.30          140.00          21 7.00        330.00          430.00         390.00          240.00          186.00         150.00          100.00          120.00         008.00
Eveporroneplrorls,, oae  28.00           50.00         113.00          731.00         306.00          302.00         200.00          201.00          269.00         177.00          144.00          020.00
OOC'PolleroinOel1                 0               0               0              0               0             1130           200 2            3000          172.0               
Crop ir-ig. reqEt.               20.00          .59.00          003.00         231.00          306.00         209.00           22.00            I              0             177.00         144.00          120.00
FOE  del. -oq't. 7502 aff.       37.00           70.00          15 0.00        308.00          51's.0R        350.00           29.00            0              0             230.00          192.00         170.00
VoI. -sne  req' d. M2           370.00.         7800.00      1,300.00        3,200.00        .410           3,500.00          2900.00           0                          0,360.00       1,020.00        1,200.00
P.ddy
Cone. Ceo soaR. 4                                                                   1~~~     ~     ~~~~~          ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~.09  1.~20  1.19  0.00
Ev-potra-pil-oionea                                                                                           425.00          200.00          22 1.00        229.80
OOerf__iaer fo jjl   a                                                                                         1.0            2000            250.00          172,00
2009  rIlg. reqE -                                                                              00.00         311.00           40.00            0              0
Peom deIl. rq    75, off.                                                                      133.00         414.00            3.00                            0
Cropped Ores h,                                                                                          ..1..  ..     ... .0....   ......................
v01.    e  req'   o,1,300                                                                                   4,240.00          530.0             0 
Cone. uSe 0000. 4                                                                   0.~~     ~     ~~~~~          ~~~~~           ~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~23  0.52  0.29  1.09  0.70
pe   Vapor-l    -390.00                                                                                                    2000            106.00         150,00          150.00
ooepoorenaptratloo -                                                              09.~~     ~ ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~       ~~~             ~~~~00  029.00  140.0  0300  101.00
Rffecoire  aloifall                                                                                           114.00          130. 00         130 00         172,00            0
CropOrig. -eq't                                                                                                 0               0               0              0             100.00
Prrde., reqIt  7502 off.                                                                                        0               0               0              0             140.00
Pa. mrtlleeeq'd. M3                                                                                             0               C0                             0           1, 000.00
V-t.nbl.. (Letnd
Cone.  .e.  .0. fs                                                                                                                                             0.39            0.63            0.50           0.30
pa  -vaortiar                                                                                                                                                150.00          150.00         120.00          100.00
Ovoporraoeplraoioe -                                                                                                  ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~57.00  95 .00  70.00  32.00
Effeori-e raInfalo1                                                                                                                                                    0               0                      0
Crop irrig. req'r.                                                                                                                                            57.00           93 .00          70.00          32.00
Parr del. reqt. 735  offm                                                                                                                                     70.00          126.00           93.00          42.00
V.I. rare  req d. 05                                                                                                                                         760.01        1,200.00          930.00         420.00
Vroetabl.. (E-rlyl
Cea.   Ie roof. k                 0.16            0.37            0.65           0.50            0.30
Pen  veortEo_a                   77.50          140.00         217.00          330.00          434.00
Eoeponoepriinoa                   2.00           00.00          106.00         105. 00         130.00
Rff-anlveralofall                 0               0               0              0               a
Crop S-ng. req't. -              12.00           80.00         106.00          195.00          130.00                                                                                                        75.00
perar del. req's.       ~~16.00        100.00          141.00          240.00         173.00                                                                                                        100.01
Crpprd  -re  hr                                                                                                                                                                                      ..............--..    .....0....  
Vol. sle  reqd. M'              160.00       1,00.0          1,1.0           ,000           1",7"3'0.10
vJoco (E-1ioS
Can,  -eeoaS  k                                                                                                  0.52           0.79            1.09           0.70
Pen evaparaEloe -                                                                 ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~       ~ ~~390.00  240.00  100.00  150.00
Ovopaoraaeporanoaa  -                                                  ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~75.00  003.00  191.00  203.00  105.00
Elff-eie relell -                                                                                0            114.00          050.00          150.00         172.00
COOP i001g.  eq'S.-                                                                             75.00           89.00          30.0            45.00            0
Par,, dO. r-q'. P302 atE.                                                                      110.00         110.00           50.00           60.00
Cropped area ha                                                                             .........
Vo.  Woe   e'd.W M3lO                                                                                        ,0.0             50.00           600.00
Cans.  -e  ran . k                                0.44           0,77            0.80            0.00
Pan  -vp-roEoo                                  14 0.00        207.00          330.00          434.00
E-aparra-poslor ar                               62.00         16 7.00         26.1.00          43.00
£lo-ttli-     fll-0                                               0              0               0
Crop ir-ig. roqt. -                              62.00         167.00          204.00           43.00
Fern del. req't. 7502 rft                        02.00          222.00         352.00           57.00
Crapped  .r. h,o.......                                        ...... 1.0 a.........  .........
Vo..aier req '0d. 00                            820.00       2.220.00        3,520.00          570.00                                                                                                                        o
Re-y      97                                                                                                               






ANNEX 6
A>bendi i6 Ib
I 11 D I A
NADItA fUDmSn AIC0LU L C8r1T D7ROJCT
Ictl_ted Su.le terv W t ter  eirbmut_          , by Ya   Models
(Unit H3)
J43.9ry     Febrmary      Match        April         no          JUp         July         hassat    gapt_or    October          N.eoer    D  .e b-r
ArA (b6l   FARM WIIL 1.  TyDp  I WIl. Cosend Arms 2.5 ha
0.30        Vegetables                         48          319          423          738          519                                                                            -          100
0.30        Cr                                   -         246          666        1.056          171                                                  -            -                         -
1.7         Whoet (6eirn)                   2,448        1,649          493                         -           -            -                  -                   -        2,074       2,686
0.15 s      Sgercmne                           55          117          225          462          771         537           43            0            0          354          288          255
0.20        Paddy                                            -            -            -          266         828          106            0            0            -            -            -
0.35        Jov r.-                                          -            -                        35         413          175          210            0            -            _            _
0.40        VOestablc                                                                                                                     - 5l04-    ;                          72          168
Tot.l roqir-nt                  2,551       2,330       1807         2,256        1,762        1.778         324          210          504          858        2,734        3.209
1otal available                 2,945       2,408        2,542        2,310        2,232       2,040        2,387        2,821        3,120        3,441        3,120        3,100
Percent  tili-tion, 1/             86          96           71           97           78          87           13            7            9           24           97           (3)
ARMA (ha)   FARM tODEL I1: Type A Wall.   r.- Sit  1.5 ha. Co_nd Are  2.5 ho
0.25          Jov,                                                        -            -                        0            0            0            0          350
0.11           Paddy                             -           -            -                       199       1,015          132            0            0            -            -            -
0.10           Sugarede                         37          7S          150          308          514         358           29            0            0          236          192          170
1.10          Ys- .n  n Wdhat               1,584        1.067          319            -            -           -            -            -            -            -       1.342        1,738
0.20          Pulse.                           164         444          704          114            -            -           -                         -                                      -
0.20           V.Setabloo                    ,_            _                                                                                         _-           252          186           04
Total r-qutret.n              1,785       1,589        1,173          422          713       1,393          161            0           IS          838        1,720        1,992
Water cold                      930         860        1,066        1.155          432          406            0           0        1,560        1,665        1,144         980
Total  ter pomped             2,735       2,449        2,239        1,577        1.145        1,801            0           0        1,575        2,503        2,864        2,792
Total avallabl.              4,433        3,808        3.937        3,690        3.503       3,120        3,503        4,216        4.770        5,053        4,770       4,650
Perro-t utllication              61          64           56           42           32           59                        0           33           5°           60           60
AREA (h.)  FARM MlEL III,  T7V   C 0.e1. CoSond Are. 1 Sn. F     Rice 2.5 be
0.10        Ple..                                -          82          222          352           57            -                                        - -             -            -
0.20        Paddy                                -           -            -            -          266         828          106                   0     0                   -                  -
0.55         Jov.r (at.)                                                                                                      0           070                                                 -
0.40        Maitn Wheat                        576         388          116            -            -            -                        -            -            -          468          632
0.20        Veget.blo                          32          212           2           492          346          _                                      -                                      20
ttl r.qair ..nto                  608          682         620          864          669          828          106           0          770            0          488          652
Total av-Llabl#                   775          700         775          750          775          750          775          775         750             0         750          775
Par.ent otilliation .1            78            97          80          (11)          86           (9)          13           0            (5)          0           65           84
ARIA (h.) FARM l-vEL IV, Ty" A Wall. Coommnd Area 3.5 h,
1.75        Me tica. ,at                    3,500        1.820          647            -                  -            -            -                  -            -        2,817        3,587
0  90          1l                                                       3                     -                                                        -            0        1.710          369
O 15        Chilli..                                         57         318          507          547            -                                                3 °  245       _            _
0.60        Catt.o                                            ,           ,          600          960          756       1.446          600            0          294
0.40         Jo,,r                               -            -           -            -            -          740          560         632             0         112                         -
0.30         Paddy                               -            -            -           -          399        1,515          480          159         198             -            -           _
0.75        Oilaced.                         1.087         360           _           _            _           _                                                                765        1.095
Total r.quir-.ts               4,587        2,237          965        1,107        1,906        3,011        2,486       1,391          198          966        5,292        5,051
Totel -vailable                4.433        3,808        3,937        3,690        3,503        3,120       3,503        4,216        4,770        5.053        4.770        4,650
Partent utilicetion 1/             (3)         59           24           30           54           96           71           33           14           19         (10)           (8)
1/ Figor.. in p-eeath-l  l1dicCte shortage  in d.ga.ll at.r supply. Adnq.sn  elstur  Is availabl  in root cone to provide  ull supply.
July 27, 1972






Appendix '>-L
I N D I A
MADNYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mean Monthly Precipitation 1!
(Unit am)
Crop Regiion 1
No.
Stations          District            January    February       March       April         May        June       July         August    September        October     November    December        Total
8        Mondsaur                    6.2          3.2         2.6          2.2         8.1       97.4      286.1         264.8        128.7           13.3          8.5          3.4        824.5
4        Shajapur                   10.6          4.0         4.0          2.3        10.4      115.5      331.4         296.1        156.7           23.0         17.1          6.1         977.2
5        Rajgarh                    14.4          6.2         6.5          2.9        10.0      116.9      393.7         326.0        179.1           19.0         18.7          7.3      1,100.7
5        Ujjain                      8.0          3.5         2.9          1.4         9.1      121.7      280.4         255.9        165.0           19.8         18.9          5.6         892.2
5        Dhar                        4.0          0.9         1.1          1.4         9.8      127.4      255.5         204.0        176.1           31.3         17.9          3.7         833.1
4        Indore                      5.6          2.2         2.5          2.0         12.1     149.3       306.8        239.5        191.9           36.3         20.8          5.9         974.9
Monthly Average             8.1         3.3          3.2          2.0         9.9      121.3      308.9         264.3        166.2           23.7         16.9          5.3
807 Dependable              -------------- No Effective Rainfall --------------         78.6      231.2         218.5        105.6           --------- No Effective Rainfall ---------
Crop Relion 2
5        Sutna                      23.9         23.0        11.8          7.2         10.5     109.2      348.9         339.2        169.7           35.1         13.9          7.5       1,099.9
2        Panna                      19.2         15.9         8.3          5.7         10.1      94.6       389.0        381.4        194.9           38.5         11.3          7.5       1,176.4
3        Chhatarpur                 16.5         14.4          7.9         4.8          6.9      95.5       373.6        336.8        170.6            25.7        15.2           7.0      1,074.9
1        Tika.garh                  16.8         14.5         7.1          4.1          7.4      90.2       344.9        303.5        158.2           28.5         18.0          7.9       1,001.1
5        Juna                       14.1          8.2         6.3          2.5          7.2     118.8       354.1        320.4        173.3            17.9        20.0         10.7       1,053.5
10        Sagar                      23.9         14.6        10.6          5.3          8.1     130.8       421.5        371.0        189.5           29.8         21.0           8.9      1,235.0
3        Bhilsa                     16.0         10.0         6 0          2.5          7.7     129.6       380.0         339.9       189.7            26.3        18.6          7.5       1,133.8
3        Damoh                      20.4         13.8         11.8         5.8          8.5     124.2       40J.0         382.3       196.7            36.1         16.3          8.6      1,224.5
8        Raisen                     22.4         11.1          8.5         3.3          7.9     159.2       473.3         371.1       214.1            29.9        21.6          8.0       1,330.4
5        Narsimhapur                15.9         17.3         12.1         6.5         10.9     148.3       421.2         385.0       216.5            40.8         17.6          8.7      1,300.8
5        Hoshangabad                14.1          9.4          7.2         2.5          9.9     156.2       439.5         361.7       230.3           34.0          21.3          8.4      1,294.5
8        Sehore                     14.1          5.1         5.3          1.9          9.9     150.8       462.1         331.9       208.1            30.4        18.1           7.1      1,244.8
Monthly Average            18.1         13.1         8.5          4.3         8.7      125.6       351.1         352.0       192.6           31.0         17.7           8.1
80% Dependable             -------------- No Effective Rainfall ---------------        113.5       317.0        317.0        172.5           --- No Effective Rainfall --
/  Based on 50 year average.
July 27, 1972






ANNEX 6
I N D I A                                                                            Appendix 6-ld
MADHYA PlWESb AGPICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Water Utilization by Fam Models
(Unit M)
January     February     March       April        May        June         July        August    September    October      November    December
FARM MODEL I
Water supplied by rainfall                0           0           0            0           0         796       1,426        1,426       1,204           0            0           0
Water supplied by well                2.551       2.044       1.087       2.256        1.727       1.365         149            0         304       1348         2.736       3.109
Total Supply:                      2,551       2,044       1,087       2,256        1,727       2,161       1,575        1,426       1,508       1,348        2,736       3,109
% supplied by well                   100         100         100          100         100          63           7            0          20          100         100         100
FARM MCDEL II
Water supplied by rainfall                0           0            0           0           0         569       1,020        1,020         860            0           0            0
Water supplied by vell                1.621       1.309         913        1.012         960       1.393         161            0         152          838       1.720       1.992
Total supply:                      1,621       1,309         913        1,012         960       1,962       1,181        1,020       1,012          838       1,720       1,992
% supplied by vell                   100         100          100         100         100          70           13           0          15          100         100          100
FARM MODEL III
Water supplied by rainfall                0           0            0           0           0         855        1,385       1,385       1,290            0           0            0
Water supplied by well                  608         682          620         844         669         828          106           0           0          770         488          632
Total supply:                        608         682         620          844         669       1,683        1,491       1,385       1,290          770         488          632
%  supplied by vell                  100          100         100         100         100          49            7           0            0         100         100          100
FARM MODEL IV
Water supplied by rainfall                0           0            0           0           0       1,459        2,301       2,181       2,225            0           0            0
Water supplied by well                4.710       2.847        2.452       3.119       4.005       2.576        2.279       2,129         414        1.876       4,916        5.527
Total supply:                      4,710       2,847        2,452       3,119       4,005       4,035        4,580       4,310       2,639        1,876       4,916        5,527
I supplied by well                   100         100          100         100         100          63           49          49           15         100          100         100
July 27, 1972






INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprises
(Rs)
year:      1         2        3         4       5-7        8      9-14       15      16-20
Model I: Investment: Improved Dugwell plus
Electric Pumpset (Rs 7.850). Well command
area 2.5 ha.
Net Value of Incremental Production 1/                    2,169    2,788    3,098    3,098    3,098    3,098    3,098    3,098    3,098
Capital Investment                                        7,850                                          3,000               3,000
Net Incremental Flow                                     (5,681)   2,788    3,098    3,098    3,098         98    3,098         98    3,098
Financial Rate of Return:           51%
With 207 decline in benefits:       28%
Model II: Investment: Dugwell, Diesel Pumpset
Minor Farm Development (Rs 11.500). Farm size
1.5 ha plus sale of water.
Net Value of Incremental Production 2/                    2,262    2,938    3,478    3,750    3,750    3,750    3,750    3,750    3,750
Capital Investment                                       11,500                                          4,500               4,500
Net Incremental Flow                                     (9,238)   2,938    3,478    3,750    3,750        (750)   3,750      (750)   3,750
Financial Rate of Return:           35%
With 207 decline in benefits:       23%
Model III: Investment: Dugwell. persian wheel,
Bullock pair (Rs 7,900). Well command Area 1.5 ha.
Net Value of Incremental Producticn 2/                      753    1,171    1,506    1,673    1,673    1,673    1,673    1,673    1,673
Capital Investment                                        7X900                                           2,300              2,300
Net Incremental Flow                                     (7,147)   1,171    1,506    1,673    1,673        (627)   1,673      (627)   1,673
Financial Rate of Return             197
With 20% decline in benefits:        107
Model IV: Investment: Dug cum bore well, Electric
Pumpset. minor farm development (Rs 14.750). Well
command area 3.5 ha.
Net Value of Incremental Production  2/                   2,253    3,505    4,506    5X007    5,007    5,007    5,007    5,007    5,007
Capital Investment                                       14,750                                           3.000              3.000
Net Incremental Flow                                    (12,497)   3,505    4,506    5,007    5,007    2,007    5,007    2,007    5,007
Financial Rate of Return:            35%
With 207 decline in benefits:        21%
year:       1        2        3         4       5-10      11      12-20
j Year 1-70%; year 2-90%; year 3 onward full value.
Year 1-45%; year 2-70%; year 3-90%; year 4 onward full value.
x 2
January 23, 1973                                                                                                                                                          o






MAIEW PLUM  AaRXCULTUSAL CROWDY 8W
e/_re  I^ACC_ and Debt Service
Ire.         TotalSce
Inveeem,t                         Cot        Lamy        hoat       Repk"eble                                                           Year I        Year 2        7            Year 15     Yecar   tNI
10                                 year            RS                                                  Re                                                                        Rsi  e 
Model 1: r0z S±:.  2.5 ha
Deniml oprovsm.t                        1,5ZZ        80        1,200        9                 2C0         Not Value rIn. Prod2/               2,169        2,788          3,096       3,096          3,096
Electric ?W, Csen^tirm,
piping                                  6.3Z         eo        5.080        7               1010           Debt Service                       1210 1W210                   1  10      1510           1210
TotiB50 6.2al                                                                                             Inc. Inc.  after Debt Service                    m                          _11                              2.h20
Nodal I!; ?rm Sice 1.3 ha (plus eater &Al*)
D 1geell                               7,000        80        5,600        9                 934         Not Valu  Irc. Prod.                2,262         2,938          3,1h78      3,750          3,750
Diesel .                                 .          80                     7                              Debt Service                       1654          1.                                                                            _ 1.  1   X654
Totel                                 ll54 X0                               -- 9           lA6           Inc  Inec  Aftr Debt Somerve           l           jI;IC                    t>5                                 674            2.770
Ibdel rIII Pri Sime 1.5 ha
DoeI la                               5,600o5      80         1,,80                         7417         Not Value Inc. Prod.                 753A                           0 15o6  1,673          1,673
Peraen Hweel_1,ZZ0                                 80           800        7'S              160          Debt Service                                                    X.175              1       1175
Pair B/llo   f                                                12 80, so40  3        ^       266          Inc. Ionc After 1,ebt Service
Total
Mode IT: Pta  Sime 3.5 ha
hge1 end Dore                          7130         80         6,200       9               1,031          Not Value Inc. Prod.               2,253         3,05           3,506       5,C07          5,007
Ilectric PAP  nd Connection            6,0Z0        80         4,800       7                 960          Debt Service                                     2 122129       29L19 2U9                  2 2
Land Development                       1 O    Z      0           8000      9               .              Inc. Incae After Debt Service
Total                                              A--                     _
/ AesM  loan  ade by a ce_rcial bak. An LEO losA  cold not exceed 85% of inveet_nt coat,
the borrower baving aleo contributed 5% to the share  epitel or his Prima_v Bank.
By equal ,mul installments with interest at 9% per a or.
And in tubsequent years until loan repayment(s) colet.d.
Pr^ Appcdix 6.2
The lover cost reflct, a sballower duguell.
After two yeaa grace; see Schedule D.
Not finced under the Project.
YInal t on1,9
v-yr 24, 1973



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIKATED CHANGES IN CROPPED AREA AND PRODUCTION
Cropped Area                       Production
Increase                          Increase
Before    After   (Decrease)       Before    After   (Decrease)
____-___- h-ectRres ----------     --------- tons ------------
Foodgrai n s
Wheat                           28,650   62,850      34,200        40,300   188,500    148,200
rdee (paddy)                     9,900     9,600       (300)       28,400    28,800        400
Maize                            6,000      -        (6,000)       13,200      -       (13,200)
Jowar                           25,800    15,450    (1iO350)       31,500    45,200     13,700
Pulses                          33.300    22 200   (11,ID0)        21 000   28 600    17,600
Total Foodgra:Ln:          03,,50   1301,0       6-013sb00                         65  W
Commercial Crcp8
C.;tton                          3,750     9,000      5>250         1,500    11,700     10,200
Oilseeds                         6,450    11,250      4,800         3,400    22,400    19,000
Sugarcane                         -        3,300      3,300          -      237,600    237,600
Vegetables                       3,6600    14,400    10,800        19,800    79,200     59,400
Chillies                          -        2,250      2,250          -       20,700     20,700
Total Commercial Crops   - 80 40,200_                                             346,900
Total All Crops           117 450  150,300      32,850
NOTE: The changes in cropped area and production are estimated at full development (in the  sixth
year of the project).
January 10, 1973



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return on Investments
1.        An explanation is given in this Annex of the methodology and
assumptions used in estimating the returns to the Indian Economy from invest-
ments made under the Project. Economic benefit and investment flows, and
rates of return, are presented in Appendix 7-1. The principal assumptions
for the models are discussed below.
Taxes
2.        Sales taxes and excise and import duties on farm inputs and capital
items have been excluded in the analysis to the extent such taxes are
identifiable. At 15% tax has been netted out from expenditures for
pesticides and fertilizer materials as well as for electric pump sets, diesel
pump sets, persian wheels, and minor irrigation facilities. For imported
machinery, an import duty of 30% plus a war tax of 2.5% has been excluded.
Prices for diesel fuel are calculated c.i.f. Bombay plus transport, handling,
storage and distribution charges. The adjusted diesel fuel prices are 70%
below current retail prices.
Subsidies
3.        Viewing rural electrification in the State as a separate enterprise,
it hias been found that current electricity rates charged to rural customers
do not cover the full cost of generating electric energy and distributing
it to rural areas. A cost-covering rate was calculated at Rs 0.25/kwh for
rural electrification and at Rs 0.15/kwh for all users in the state combined.
Since an economic rate was used in calculating operating costs for electric
pumpsets in Models I and IV, the electricity connection deposit of Rs 3,000
per pump set was not included as an investment cost.
4.        A downward adjustment was made in the price of water sold under
Model II. Being concerned strictly with the recovery of the cost to the
economy of the projected investment, a rate of RS 0.153 per m3 currently
charged in Madhya Pradesh.
Cost of Labor
5.        Agricultural production financed under the Project presupposes a
very low level of mechanization and a high labor intensity. This form of
operation leads to peak-season labor shortages and considerable seasonal



ANNEX 7
Page 2
fluctuations in farm wages. Family labor (equivalent to 60 man-days per
month) has been costed at Is 1.50 per man-day during off-harvest season
and at Rs 5.00 during the harvest season to reflect subsistence cost and
possible alternative employment opportunities during peak periods. Hired
labor has been included at the relatively high wage rate of Rs 5.00 per
man-day during the harvest season.
Farm Product Prices
6.        While current prices have been used for investments and farm pro-
duction inputs, world market prices for crops, as projected in the IBRD
Economics Department for the year 1980, have been used to estimate benefits.
No adjustment in current local prices has been made for bajra, pulses,
vegetables and chillies. The following are the prices assumed for other
crops (Rs/ton):
-Cotton                          1,886 --
Jowar (Sorghum)                   520
'Maize (Corn)                      550
Oilseed (Linseed)               1,026
Paddy (Rice)                      490--
Rape/mustard seed                 925
Sugarcane                         140
Wheat                              600 -
Economic Rates of Return
7.        Based on these economic assumptions, and retaining the technical
assumptions as in the financial analysis, the economic rate of return has
been estimated to range from 17% to over 100% for individual farm models.
A 20% reduction in benefits due to a decline in yields or prices would lower
the economic rate of return to a range of 12% to 74% (Appendix 7-1).
April 26, 1973



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return by Type of Investment
(Rs)
year:    1          2         3        4        5-7        8        9-14      15       16-20
Model I:  Investment:  Well Improvement,
Electric Pumpset (Rs 4,348); Well Command
Area 2.5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production  /1                       1,930      2,480    2,750    2,750    2,750    2,750    2,750    2,750    2,750
Capital Investment                                            4,350      --                            -        2.550      -        2.550      -
Net Incremental Flow                                         (2,420)    2,480    2,750    2,750    2,750          200    2,750        200    2,750
Economic Rate of Return:         over 100%
With 20% decline in benefits:           74%
Model II: Investment: Dugwell, Diesel
Pumpset (Rs 10,825); Well Command Area
2.5 ha, Farm Size 1.5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production  /2                       1,530      2,380    3,060    3,400    3,400    3,400    3,400    3,400    3,400
Capital Investment                                           10.830       -         -        -         -        3,830      -        3830
Net Incremental Flow                                         (9,300      2,380    3,060    3,400    3,400        (430)   3,400       (430)   3,400
Economic Rate of Return                31%
With 20% decline in benefits:           23%
Model III: Investment: Dugwell, One Pair
of Bullocks, Persian Wheel (Rs 7,750);
Well Command Area 1.5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production  /2                         680      1,060    1,370    1,520    1,520    1,520    1,520    1,520    1,520
Capital Investment                                            7,750       -         -        -         -        2.150 /3  -         2.150 /3  -
Net Incremental Flow                                         (7,070)    1,060    1,370    1,520    1,520         (630)   1,520       (630)   1,520
Economic Rate of Return                 17%
With 20% decline in benefits           127.
Model IV: Investment: Dug cum bore well.
Electric Pumpset, Minor Farm Development
(Rs 11,300); Well Command Area 3.5 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production /2                        1,290      2,010    2,580    2,870    2,870    2,870    2,870    2,870    2,870
Capital Investment                                           11.300       -         -         -        -        2.550      -        2,550      -
Net Incremiental Flow                                       (10,010)    2,010    2,580    2,870    2,870          320    2,870        320    2,870
Economic Rate of Return                 24%
With 207. decline in benefits           18%
L  Year 1-707; year 2-90,; year 3 onward full value.
0.x
/2  Year 1-45%; year 2-70Z; year 3-90%; year 4 onward full value.
/3  Bullocks and persian wheel replaced in years 8 and 15.
April 24, 1973






,   \                              ,                                                           _.            18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 10098R
td-  k                             bO                                                                       r D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH  1-971
)r-2 ,gs < ~~~~~~~~~I N   D) I A
r.5- .t,.  ...... \MADHYA PRADESH
,/','-'. f.itfz                               ~AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
t~~~~~~~~~~~ UTT A RPRADESH
M A H A RAS H T R A            t                 S        j      >:~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  A 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>   ....t   810RISSA
20                                                                              E §                      is/\t        ts                              so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
75°                                                            f')                             9' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44
' C  _ Ap  mte ons-f                                                           ~i                                      f , A\I N2  
AFGHAN\ , l mr Too lrrgof o ScENe~,_> 5  
<                                                                                                                           MAN,;.DIAet rdfr mrIrito nssmn;        
_ kCW    BET>Adt a rs ob n 1di1w  Mig r-to prlss,   
<AITrr                    MbUA/DCma riginShm                                                                                       t         s,         
77ID      t-9i    t       ,                               rd    sn, 
.~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ AJ                                H A RUM  A5 OoSr Hni   Tt RA
t ~ ~ ~ ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   ~         ~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R I fS Mn BnmAfJ  n lo s
Se \  ,,a=d,. NDHA                                           Y--ES B-1_v
\,XILANKA(CEYLON)           n     ,       w)~9



