CONFORMED COPYY
CREDIT NUMBER 391 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 391 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedult 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
The State of Madhya Pradesh acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Madhya
Pradesh), Madhya Pradesh has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation and the Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land
Development Bank, Limited, certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project have been undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation and
the Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank, Limited; and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;


﻿4
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Madhya Pradesh" means the State of Madhya Pradesh acting by its
Governor, a State of India, or any successor thereof.
(b)   "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "LDB" means Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development
Bank, Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of
Madhya Pradesh.
(d)   "CGWB" means the Central Groundwater Board established by the
Government of India.
(e)   "DTGS" means the Directorate of Tubewells and Groundwater Surveys
established by Madhya Pradesh.
(f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC and LDB, and all schedules thereto, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
(g)   "Madhya Pradesh Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between Madhya Pradesh and the Association, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) hereof, and all
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the approval of the Association.


﻿5
(i)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any person or enterprise carrying out farm
custom work in the territory of Madhya Pradesh, or (ii) any farmer, group of
farmers or cooperative farming society carrying out farm work in the territory
of Madhya Pradesh which is eligible to receive an Agricultural Loan.
(j)   "Agricultural Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
to a Beneficiary and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(k)   "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which has entered into an agreement
with ARC in accordance with Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
(1)   "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Development Bank which
is a member of LDB and which has entered into an agreement with LDB in
accordance with Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(m)   "Project Area" means the 35 districts named in paragraph I of
Schedule I to the Project Agreement and therein referred to as "Project Districts".
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount   in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  thirty-three  million  dollars
($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; providect however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿6
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August I in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of t;e Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August I commencing
August 1, 1983 and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of the obligations of the
BoVrower set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, if for any reason, the equipment
listed in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement is not available in the territories
of the Borrower, then the Borrower shall, on the request of Madhya Pradesh, take
all action required to ensure the prompt importation of such equipment and in
respect of each consignment of such equipment, spare parts for such equipment
in an amount sufficient to ensure an adequate supply of spare parts during the
execution of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms
and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARC for relending


﻿7
to LDB and Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit in
respect of Categories I and 11 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set
forth in Schedule I of this Agreement. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and th, Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the operating policies
and procedures and relending terms and conditions for the carrying out of the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedules 1 and 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Madhya Pradesh
to perform all its obligations under the Madhya Pradesh Agreement, and (ii) ARC
and LDB to perform their obligations under the Project igreement, and shall not
take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC and LDB.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. Upon request from Madhya Pradesh, the Borrower shall assign
five hydrogeologists from CGWB to DTGS and maintain such hydrogeologists with
DTGS until the Project is completed.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC and LDB to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC and LDB to: (i) establish and maintain
separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of
the Project: (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association: (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later


﻿8
tktMn four months after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of their
fin.ncial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning their accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shal. cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by Madhya Pradesh of its obligations under the
Madhya Pradesh Agreement, the performance by ARC and LDB of their obligations
under the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of ARC and LDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ARC, LDB
and Madhya Pradesh, and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
0<


﻿9
Credit Agreement, the performance by Madhya Pradesh of its obligations under
the Madhya Pradesh Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance
by LDB of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Madhya Pradesh
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿10
(a)   Madhya Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Madhya Pradesh Agreement; ARC or LDB shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement; or ARC shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Madhya Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under
the Madhya Pradesh Agreement, or (ii) ARC or LDB will be able to perform their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, or (iii) ARC will be able to
perfonn its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   ARC or LDB shall have become unable to pay any of their debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or
LDB or by others whereby any of the property of ARC or LDB shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or LDB or for
the suspension of their operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and the defaulting party.
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions.
(a)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and LDB and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.


﻿11
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement mentioned in Section 3.01(c) hereof
has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
(c)   The Madhya Pradesh Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
by Madhya Pradesh and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
(d)   A banking development plan to ensure adequate banking arrangements
for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, has been implemented through
appropriate legal and administrative action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC and LDB respectively, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of ARC and LDB in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
(c)  That the Madhya Pradesh Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Madhya Pradesh and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Madhya Pradesh in accordance with
its terms.
Section 8.03. The date September 30, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. On termination of the Project Agreement in accordance with
its terms, the obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.


﻿12
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions:
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ E. Gonsalves
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Loans for minor               31,500,000         63% of local ex-
irrigation                                        penditures
II.   Loans for land                 1,500,000         63% of local ex-
development                                       penditures
TOTAL              33,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)  the tern "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿15
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the estimate of the expenditures
under any Category shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to
such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
(subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other Category or Categories) by increasing
correspondingly the amount allocated to Categories I and/or II and the Association
may increase (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes) correspondingly the
percentage applicable to Categories I and/or II.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third of the table in
paragraph I above or the provisions of paragraph 4 above, if the estimate of local
expenditures under Category I or II shall increase, and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of a lending program for agricultural development
in Madhya Pradesh, consists of:
A.    A three year program to finance loans for minor irrigation, including
the construction and improvement of dugwells and the installation, of pumpsets
and Persian wheels on dugwells and land development for Beneficiaries through
Primary Banks and Participating Banks, the said loans being refinanced in
accordance with the terms and conditions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and
with the Project Agreement.
B.    The provision of following well-drilling equipment, including spare
parts: pneumatic boring drills together with compressors.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which part
of the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be lent to ARC by
the Borrower:
Lending terms to ARC from the Borrower
(a)   In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding nine years:
(i)        interest rate of not less than 5-1/2% per annum less 1/4% per
annum for prompt payment;
(ii)       repayment at the end of nine years;
(b)   In respect of ARC refinancing in excess of nine but not exceeding
15 years:
(i)        interest rate of not less than 6% per annum less 1/4% per annum
for prompt payment;
(ii)       repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c)   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


