CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 391 IN
Project Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
MADHYA PRADESH STATE COOPERATIVE
LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 391 IN
Project Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
MADHYA PRADESH STATE COOPERATIVE
LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC) and
MADHYA PRADESH STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK,
LIMITED (hereinafter called LDB).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
(hereinafter referred to as the Credit Agreement) the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
three million dollars ($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that ARC and
LDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of Madhya Pradesh acting by its Governor, the said State has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC and LDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC and LDB shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Devzlopment Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall, in sufficient time before the Effective Date, invite to
participate in the Project the banks listed in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with LDB and each bank responding
to ARC's invitation under paragraph (b) of this Section on terms and conditions
(including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory
to the Association.
(d)   ARC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts
for Project lending and (ii) ensure that the annual audited accounts of such Banks
are submitted to the Association within four months of the end of their fiscal
year together with a statement of project lending for such Banks, certified by
ARC.
Section 2.03. LDB shall enter into an agreement with each Primary Bank
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraphs 2 and
3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to ARC.
Section 2.04. (a) The operating policies and procedures and the lending terms
and conditions for carrying out the Project shall be as set forth in Schedules I
and 2 hereto, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Association, ARC and LDB.
W


﻿5
(b)   ARC   shall take all necessary measures to ensure that LDB, the
Participating Banks and Primary Banks in their operations adhere to the lending
terms and conditions and the appraisal criteria and procedures relating to minor
irrigation set forth in said Schedules 1 and 2.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC shall
ensure that all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under
Categories I and II of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement are used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.06. ARC and LDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to them by the
Borrower and by ARC, respectively, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to them and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. ARC and LDB shall at all times charge interest on all of their
loans at rates sufficient to enable ARC and LDB, respectively, to (a) cover all
operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments
on borrowings; and (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts and maintain
adequate general reserves in accorda'nce with sound commercial practice.
Section 2.08. ARC in consultation with the Association shall continue to
assist in the maintenance by LDB and the Primary Banks in Madhya Pradesh of
sound business and financial practices.
Section 2.09. ARC shall as soon as possible after the date of this Agreement
establish a system, satisfactory to the Association, for evaluating in Madhya Pradesh
on a continuing basis the financial and economic benefits of agricultural credit
projects financed by the Association.
Section 2. 10. ARC and LDB shall take all such steps as shall be necessary
on their parts to implement the banking plan agreed between Madhya Pradesh,
ARC, LDB     id the Association.
Section 2.11. ARC shall, after consultation with and agreement by the
Association, withhold refinancing under the Project from any Primary Bank which


﻿6
fails to achieve a recovery rate of 75% in respect of all demands (principal and
interest) falling due during the fiscal year ending June 30 of each year.
Section 2.12. ARC shall take due measures to ensure that all banks listed
in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 lend for all minor
irrigation and land development investments in the Project Area only where such
lending conforms to the criteria and terms and conditions set out in Schedules
1 and 2 hereto except for schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small Farmers
and Marginal Farmers' Development Agencies in Madhya Pradesh.
Section 2.13. Any Primary Bank which has suffered disqualification from
refinance facilities by virtue of Section 2.11 hereof may be allowed by ARC to
participate in Project lending on the default leading to the disqualification being
subsequently rectified.
Section 2.14. ARC shall give such assistance as shall be necessary to Madhya
Pradesh in conducting the survey referred to in Section 2.08 of the Madhya Pradesh
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC and LDB
Section 3.01. ARC and LDB shall: (a) at all times manage their affairs,
maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial practices and inder
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LDB and the
Primary Banks shall apply the same criteria to all similar types of lending that
they apply to Project lending and, with respect to such similar types of lending,
shall not offer more favorable terms than are offered under Project lending except
for schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small Farmers and Marginal Farmers
Development Agencies in Madhya Pradesh.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC and LDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.


﻿7
Section 4.02. ARC and LDB shall: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have such accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said separate
accounts and their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning their accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from  time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC and LDB shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
ARC and LDB shall from     time to time, at the request of any party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARC or LDB and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC and LDB shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and ARC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC and LDB, respectively, shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect all their records and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿8
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC and LDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and interest thereon shall have
been repaid by ARC to the Borrower.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC and LDB of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or roade when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGROFINANS
Bombay
For LDB:
Managing Director
Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative
Land Development Bank, Limited
Sultania Road, Bhopal
Cable address:
KISANBANK
Bhopal
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing; (ii) LDB may be taken or
executed by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as LDB shall
designate in writing.


﻿10
Section 7.03. ARC and LDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of ARC and LDB, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC and LDB
respectively, pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ E. Gonsalves
Authorized Representative
MADHYA PRADESH STATE COOPERATIVE
LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
By /s/ E. Gonsalves
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Minor Irrigation: Program, Appraisal
Criteria and Procedures
I. Dugwell Program
1.    The construction of new dugwells, the improvement of existing dugwells and
installation of electric and diesel pumpsets and persian wheel lifting devices with
ancilliary development would involve the following six river basins and 35
administrative districts:
Non-Project Districts
River Basin        Project Districts* with             included in State Minor
Regions           Dugwell Investments                  Irrigation Program
(a)  Narmada    Betul, Chhindwara, Dewas,                     Mandla
Hosangabad, Indore, Jabalpur
Jhabua, Khandwa, Khargone,
Narsingpur, Sehore, Bhopal,
Seoni
(b)  Ganga      Jabalpur, Raigarh, Sarguja,                  Rewa
Satna, Shahdol, Sidhi
(c)  Yamuna     Bhind, Chhattarpur, Dewas,                   Damoh, Daria,
Dhar, Guna, Gwalior, Indore,                 Raisen
Jabalpur, Mandsaur, Morena**
Panna, Rajgarh, Rat/am, Sagar,
Sehore, Bhopal, Shajapur,
Shivpuri, Tikamgarh, Ujjaain,
Vidisha
(d)  Godavari   Balaghat, Betul, Chhindwara                   --
Seoni
(e)  Tapti      Betul, Khandwa, Khargone                      --
(f)  Mahi       Jhabua, Ratlam
*    District names italicized overlap two or more river basins.
**   The portion of this District covered by the Chambal command area is excluded from
the Project area.


﻿12
II. Appraisal Criteria
2.   Pump:       3 to 5 hp centrifugal.
3.   Minimum Well Discharge
At the time of appraisal the proposed new dugwell or dugwell improvement
should indicate good prospects of realizing discharge normally sufficient to irrigate
about one and one-half hectare of total farmland of the borrower or of the
borrowers and his neighbors at a cropping intensity of 140 per cent and in any
case sufficient to achieve an incremental return adequate to support the investment.
4.   Density of Dugwells
The density of dugwells within an elementary watershed shall be detennined
by the application of the following formula:
d =   r x 100
RxAx       c
100
Where      d =   density (wells/ki-)
r =   recharge in basin (mm)
R =   water requirement for the average cropping patterm (mm)
c = cropping intensity (%)
A     average area irrigated by a well (ha)
5.   Spacing of' Wells
The spacing of wells for any area shall be determined by the application
of the following formula:
/            c
S =   1,000    / R x A x 100
/O         rxl100
where s = spacing (mm)
(other symbols as under 4 above)
No investment for a dugwell, or dugwell improvement shall be approved if the
proposed investment was sited less than the specified distance from another well.


﻿13
6.    Investment in Persian Wheels
Investments shall normally be made in Persian wheels where:
(i)         in the opinion of DTGS, the well discharge does not justify the
installation of an electric or diesel pumpset, or
(ii)        electric power is likely to become available in the near future
so as not to justify purchase of a diesel pumpset.
7.    Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
If adequate irrigation and drainage pipes or channels do not already exist
on farms to benefit from the investment, the provision of such facilities shall be
a condition of lending and may be included in the financing.
8.    Approval by DTGS
No loan for minor irrigation shall be approved in any area before DTGS
has approved the area on technical grounds.
III. Lending Criteria and Procedures Applying to
Similar Investments Outside the Project Area
9.    Outside the Project area with effect from 12 months after the effective date,
LDB, and all agencies within the control of the State Government shall only lend
for minor irrigation investments where:
(a)   approval has been given by DTGS;
(b)   such lending conforms to the appraisal criteria and procedures set out
in this schedule.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions shall be used in implementing
the Project and shall not be altered without the prior agreement of IDA:
1.   Lending terms from ARC to Lending Banks (LDB and Participating Banks)
(a)  Interest rate to be not less than 6-1/2% per annum;
(b)   Refinancing to be by way of purchase of debentures or by loans at
the rate of 90% of individual loans for minor irrigation and 75% of individual
loans for land development;
(c)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide, more or less with
the maturity period of special debentures purchased by ARC or, as the case may
be, with expected collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
2.   LDB to Primary Banks
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 7-1/2% per annum;
(b)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers;
(c)   Loans shall cover the total amount of Primary Bank's lending to
ultimate borrowers.
3.   Primary Banks and Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 9% per annum;
(b)   A once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost of project
investments may be charged;
(c)  Borowers' contributions (for lending through Primary Banks) to be:
(i)        for normal lending, a minimum of 15% for dugwells and land
development and 5% for pumpsets and persian wheels of the
cost of the project investment (including the beneficiaries' own
labor contribution);


﻿15
(ii)       for lending to small farmers* 5% (including the beneficiaries'
own labor contribution) in the case of minor irrigation
investments costing less than Rs 10,000 each and for land
development.
In addition to the contribution towards the cost of the investment, borrowers would
contribute to LDB share capital an amount equal to 5% of their loans.
(d)   Borrowers' contributions (for lending through Participating Banks) to
be:
(i)        for normal lending a minimum of 20% of the cost of the project
investment (including the beneficiaries' own labor contribution)
for dugwells and land development and 10% for pumpsets and
persian wheels;
(ii)       for lending to small farmers* a minimum of 10% of the cost
of minor irrigation investments (including the beneficiaries' own
labor contribution) costing less than Rs 10,000 each and for
land development.
(e)   Repayment periods, which shall not exceed the life of the asset
financed shall be:
(i)        for normal lending a maximum of:
(1)   Nine years with no grace period on loans for dugwells, dugwell
improvements and land development on dugwell projects where
such dugwells are energized by an electric or diesel engine;
(2)   Nine years, including two years of grace in which interest only
shall be payable, on loans for new dugwells where such dugwells
are powered by persian wheels;
*     "Small farmers" shall have the meaning assigned to it from time to time
by the Association and ARC, as the same may be incorporated in any
agreement between ARC and LDB or a Participating Bank concluded pursuant
to Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement.


﻿16
(3)   Seven years with no grace period on loans for electric or diesel
pumpsets including the electricity connection deposit;
(4)   Seven years, including two years of grace in which interest only
shall be payable on loans for persian wheels where installed on
new dugwells;
(5)   Ten years, with no grace period, for land development loans;
(ii)       for lending to small farmers as defined, repayment periods for
dugwells and dugwell improvement loans may be increased to
15 years including two years of grace in which interest only
shall be paid.
Except when grace periods are specified, repayments shall commence in the year
following the completion of the investment.
4.    Other LDB Lending Operations
LDB and Primary Banks shall apply the same borrowers' contribution and
repayment requirements to all their similar lending operations and the same interest
rates, evaluation fees and collateral requirements to all their lending operations
(except in the case of schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small Farmers
and Marginal Farmers Development Agencies in Madhya Pradesh).


