PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld Freo of Povorly
elnSohop
Report No AB35
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                CHILE-Sustainable Transport and Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)
Region                      Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Roads and highways (50%); Sub-national government administration (50%)
Project ID                  P073985
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Implementing Agency         CONAMA/SECTRA
Address                     Comisi6n General de Transporte de Santiago - CGTS
Address New York 9, Santiago Centro
Contact Person Aldo Signorelli
Tel 562 428 7900     Fax 562 428 7900     Email
asignorelli@presidencia cl
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           April 14, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         June 16, 2003
Bank Approval Date          October 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
2.1    Issues
The Transport System and Travel Chiaracteristics
Santiago is served by a road and public transport system, which is generally well managed and
continuously being improved. Modern traffic engineering techniques - including a real-time computer
controlled signal system - are applied to the street network. The 40-km metro, the first section of which
was inaugurated in 1975, is an example of efficient mass transit management and serves 747,000
passenger trips per day. Most public transport passengers, about 4.5 million per day (2001), travel on
the 7,635 buses which are mostly owned by individuals or very small companies. In addition, there are
suburban railway lines, route taxis (colectivos) and regular taxis.
Chile's sustained rate of economic growth has a large impact on Santiago's air quality and on its
aggregate environmental service capacity. With about 5.3 million inhabitants, Santiago ranks seventh
among urban areas in Latin America and concentrates about 40%  of Chilean population.  While
population growth has decelerated from 4.5% per annum during the 1950s to about 1.4%, residential
settlements continue to expand over an area of more than 600 square kilometers. This adds to its intense
economic activity. Transport demand grows at a high pace, inflicting pressure on the urban transport
system through increased traffic and congestion, and generating increased GHG emissions and air
pollution.



2
PID
Between 1991 and 2001, the population increased by 30%, car registrations by 103%, and the number of
person trips (by all modes including walking) by 69%. Of great concern from the viewpoint of air
pollution is the growing use of the private car which has increased from 12.3% of motorized person trips
in 1977 to 38.09 % in 2001. Vehicle ownership rates rose from 320 cars per 1000 household in 1977 to
360 cars per 1000 households in 1991 and 560 cars per 1000 households in 2001, with still higher figures
in the up-scale districts such as Las Condes, Providencia and Vitacura.
As a whole, Santiago's transport system is much less chaotic than in other cities of Latin America and
highly competent transport planning entities combined with political commitment to tackle urban
transport issues have shaped a fairly well organized and reliable transport system. Nevertheless, the
urban transport sector still suffers from acute problems which are still to be addressed and which can be
summarized as follows
2.1.1 Air pollution
Much of Santiago's pollution problem stems from its climate and topography. A thermal inversion acts
as a cap over the city during fall and winter (April-August), inhibiting the dispersion of pollutants, which
is further obstructed by the mountains surrounding the city. For more than ten years, the Government has
declared pre-emergency or emergency days when ambient levels of particulate reach unhealthy levels.
Fortunately, the measures taken in the last ten years have led to substantial improvements, reflected by a
much lower occurrence of emergency days. Nevertheless, air pollution levels are still too high and
transport is the major contributor to local emissions; in October 2000, transport accounted for 91 % of CO
emissions, 84% of NOx, 48% of PMlO, 34% of SOx, and 38% of VOC emissions.
The relatively high levels of emissions and concentrations of airborne pollutants affect health and quality
of life. Ozone and PM2.5 are the pollutants of most concern in Santiago, as their concentrations still
exceed the air quality norms for the city. Besides their direct effect on health, PMIO, NOxx and SOxx are
major precursors for the formation of PM2.5, which inflicts serious health impacts, including increased
morbidity and mortality; and NOxx and VOCs are also precursors for ozone formation, which has in
itself serious local social costs, while contributing to global warming. In addition to the global warming
potential (GWP) of tropospheric ozone, transportation is a major source of GHG, mostly in the form of
C02. In Chile, transportation is the major source of energy-related GHG emissions, accounting for about
37% of C02 emissions. C02 is emitted as a direct result of fossil fuel combustion; in Santiago, these
emissions are mostly associated to the use of gasoline and diesel. Thus, measures aimed at improving
efficiency of transport flows, at promoting modal shifts to non-motorized, or to less energy intensive
modes of transport, and at adopting cleaner fuels and vehicles will not only help address local air
pollution but will also reduce GHG emissions.
A relatively recent study estimated that the annual costs of traffic-generated air pollution exceed US$500
million in Santiago. It discussed the relative decline of PMI0 and carbon monoxide emissions in recent
years, but noted that ozone levels had generally been increasing. It also estimated that the transport
system emitted nearly 4.2 million tons of C02 in 1994, of which 68% were produced by passenger cars,
taxis and light trucks.



3
PID
2.1.2 Exponential increase of car use and ownership
With about 5.3 million inhabitants, Santiago ranks seventh among urban areas in Latin America and
concentrates about 40% of Chilean population. Even though population growth has decelerated,
residential settlements continue to expand and to generate increasingly long trips, more and more
difficult to be served satisfactorily by public transport. In addition to this, Chile's sustained rate of
economic growth resulted in an increase of car ownership in Santiago from 320 cars per 1000 household
in 1977 to 560 cars per 1000 households in 2001. During the same period of time, the number of person
trips (by all modes including walking) went up by 69% and the average length of these trips went up as
well. This growth in mobility, associated with an ever-higher share of motorized trips made by car
(12.3% of motorized person trips in 1977 to 38.09 % in 2001) has been inflicting pressure on the urban
transport system through ever-growing traffic and congestion. Considering the characteristic
geographical conditions of the city, where the mountain chain around the city favors a thermal inversion
in the colder months, this has a worrisome impact on Santiago's air quality.
2.1.3 Relative deficiencies in thte organization of thie current bus system
In spite of a public transport reform which took place in the 1990s (which included the introduction of
bus regulated standards on age, size, and useful life), there are still many elements that can be corrected
to achieve a still more efficient bus system. Presently, bus operators are still competing in the streets
(competition in the market instead of for market segment through competitive bidding) on the very same
routes, which generates operating inefficiencies and dangerous driving behaviors when touting for
passengers. As bus ownership is quite fragmented (most owners own no more than a single bus) and as
there are very few formal sizable companies, transport supply is poorly coordinated, chaotic and does not
adapt to demand levels. Oversupply during off-peak hours contribute to unnecessary congestion and
pollution, and increase operating costs. Also, bus routes are long and cross the city from one extreme to
the other, and most of them run through the city center and the most heavily loaded axes, adding further
to already high levels of congestion. Finally, there is no tariff integration between bus routes, which
helps create inequities as the poorest classes get affected facing higher travel costs and less accessibility.
2.1.4 Lack of inter-agency coordination at the metropolitan level
Coordination amongst the agencies dealing with transport and air pollution issues is still incipient. This
stems from the diversity of sectors and actors involved and from the absence of a coordinating transport
body at the agglomeration level. However, environment and transport planning agencies have initiated a
pro-active coordination around common goals and objectives, centered on the improvement in the quality
of life. PTUS has incorporated both the local and global environmental dimension, and it is now clear
that implementing the plan will bring about health benefits, and a less degraded city, while helping
mitigate climate change.



4
PID
2.2    Government Strategy
2.2.1 Institutional Responsibilities for Urban Environmental Management
At the national level, strategic transport investments are made by the Integrated Bank of Projects under
the Ministry of Development and Planning (MIDEPLAN). The Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT) is responsible for roads of national and regional importance, and the Ministry of Housing and
Urban Development (MINVU) for most urban street construction and regional land-use development
plans. SECTRA, subordinated to MIDEPLAN, and also responding to MOPT, and MINVU, is the
agency responsible for transport planning throughout Chile, and hosts the primary role to support
transport planning and investment. To address environmental issues, including traffic generated air
pollution, the National Environmental Commission (CONAMA) was created in 1994, reporting directly
to the President of the Republic. While MOPT, MINVU and CONAMA have policy and spending
authority for most urban projects, their regionally decentralized services (SEREMITT, SEREMI and
CONAMA-Metropolitan Region, respectively) are generally the executors of those projects.
At the local level, Greater Santiago is divided into 34 districts (comunas). Each of them is a relatively
autonomous government entity with a Mayor and its own departments such as Public Works and Finance.
Most districts fund the maintenance and construction of public spaces, including streets, bus stops,
bikeways and sidewalks, with financial support from national authorities. While they have direct control
over local land use, subject to MINVU approval, most investment decisions concerning the street system
are taken by SEREMI. Also, an Executive Commission for the implementation of Santiago's Urban
Transport Plan (CGTS) has been appointed by the President of Chile.
2.2.2 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago
In late 2000, the Government announced its 2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for the City of Santiago
(PTUS), which main goal is to improve the quality of life in the metropolis and the individual
neighborhoods and to help in correcting social imbalances. This would be attained through a reduction in
the average trip length, which in general will provide better traffic flows, lesser time of travel, improved
air quality from reduced emissions of air pollutants, improved access to public transport, and improved
mobility. PTUS includes the following programs: (1) Public Transport Modernization; (2) Road
Investments and Traffic Control; (3) Location of Educational Institutions; (4) Promotion of New
Commercial and Service Centers; (5) Change in Residential Land-Use Trends; (6) Non-Motorized
Transport; (7) Immediate Action Program; (8) Urban Goods Transport; (9) Monitoring and Control; (10)
Financing; (11) Communications and Citizen's Participation; (12) Institutional Aspects.
PTUS was designed in consultation with the authorities in charge of handling transport related issues,
including land-use management and environmental matters (the plan is consistent with the
Decontamination Plan for Santiago recently launched by CONAMA, and aimed at reducing air and noise
pollution from mobile and point sources of emissions). PTUS is considered to be a major reform plan,
expected to substantially change the city.
Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago - CGIS. an attempt to ensure inter-institutional
coordination at the highest level, so that cross-sectoral policies and programs in PTUS could be
effectively implemented, the President of Chile appointed this special commission. CGTS is chaired by
the Minister of Works, Transport and Telecommunications, and includes the Minister of Housing and



5
PID
urban development, the Sub secretaries of Public Works, Transport and Housing , the Intendentf the
Metropolitan Region, and the Executive Director of CONAMA.
Proposed Investments Amongst the specific investments and actions proposed by PTUS are (a) the
expansion of the metro system - about 6 km of line extensions have already been tendered (b) three new
suburban railway services ; (c) a network of 15 segregated busways; (d) the reform of the public bus
system (Annex 6 - "Preliminary elements for a new public transport system development"); (e) a taxi
service reform and conversion to CNG propulsion; (f) US$700 million program to improve the road
network; (g) the application of a road pricing policy; (h) the promotion of non-motorized transport; and
(i) harmonization of land-use and transport policies in order to reduce average trip lengths.
Immediate Action Program PTUS contains a program of immediate actions which are currently being
implemented, comprising a package of low-cost public transport improvements operational since March
2001 and fine-tuned in early 2002:
*      Exclusive public transport axes: From 7:30 to 9AM on each weekday, seven radial avenues are
now reserved for buses, taxis and emergency vehicles.
*      Parallel avenues operating one-way for private car traffic, to provide the needed additional traffic
capacity taken away from public transport axes.
*      On the ten-lane Alameda Bernardo O'Higgins near the city center, six lanes have been physically
segregated and reserved full-time for buses; while only four lanes remain accessible for taxis and private
cars.
The immediate action measures of PTUS have set a very interesting precedent and demonstrate that air
and noise pollution, and traffic congestion can be substantially mitigated with a very limited budget : a
US$ 1.5 million package of public transport priorities has been successful, with travel time reductions in
the order of 14% to 35% accruing to bus passengers without causing undue delays to car users and bus
occupancy rates having increased by 16%, while PM 1O concentration went down by 14%.
2. Objectives
1.1.   To help reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) from ground transport in Santiago through a promotion
of a long-term modal shift to more efficient and less polluting forms of transport, and adoption of
sustainable low-GHG transport measures. To that end, the project will support the implementation of the
2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago (PTUS), a comprehensive multi-sector plan, which is
consistent with the overall objectives of the GEF operational program on sustainable transport. The
plan's specific objectives are to (i) maintain share of public transport (60% of total trips); (ii) promote
rational transport demand, internalizing all costs from car travel; (iii) promote land-use policies that take
into account environmental and transport dimensions helping reduce the average trip length; (iv)
promote better coordination between agencies dealing with transport related policies and issues; and (v)
reduce air pollution from public transport by 70% (from 2000 levels). A major outcome of PTUS will be
the restructuring of the city's transport system starting in 2005; the system of bus routes and the
concession process will be modified, allowing substantial gains in efficiency and profitability for the bus
operators. Section B.2 and Annex'P6eliminary elements for a new public transport system
development", provide additional information about the plan's genesis, programs, and preliminary
measures.
1.2. To help improve Santiago's air quality, through reducing emissions of air pollutants like SOx, CO,
PM, and NOx (which together with VOCs contribute to the formation of smog or tropospheric ozone
(03)).



6
PID
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has a long and proven wide world experience and technical skills related to the
implementation of transport, urban development, and environmental projects. Its presence at the sector
level in various countries in transport, water, energy, health, and environment oriented projects provide a
unique cross-referenced perspective which allows to replicate good experiences, while learning from
experience.
Further, the Bank offers advantages in terms of funding leverage. Not only a loan operation would be
prepared to help fund part of the infrastructure required investments for PTUS' new bus system, but also
it could be potentially complemented with other services available to support the participation from the
private sector, such as the IFC and MIGA products. Besides, PTUS offers opportunities for funding
under the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF). Not only Santiago has good quantitative tools in place to help
measure potential impacts of transport projects in terms of GHG emissions reduced, but also, the
Government commitment is very high and long-term. Potential PCF projects could be developed for (a) a
light train, where measurable public transport demand would be transferred from other more polluting
modes (buses and private cars); and (b) a scheme for promoting ESCO-like maintenance and servicing
programs that could ensure reduced fuel use and therefore reduced GHG emissions that could be sold at
the carbon market.
4. Description
The project will strive to accelerate the implementation of PTUS, by concentrating on 7 components,
each one contributing to abate GHG emissions with different degrees of intensity, and with different
implementation tine periods.Preparatory studies under GEF funding (PDF-B) have helped specify the
activities under certain components. Annex 7 - "Detailed Project Description", includes a more detailed
description of each component.
1.1    Promotion of bicycle use
The objective of this pilot program is to promote the use of bicycles as a mode of transport and aims at
diverting travelers from motorized modes, especially private cars, then having a direct effect in reducing
GHG emissions, as less fuel would be burnt per traveled km.
The project will include (a) 19 km of GEF-funded bikeways connecting the Comunas of Santiago,
Providencia, and Nunioa; (b) 21 km of bikeways about to be built in the same Comunas with government
funding, (c) the implementation of a promotional strategy aiming at changing travel behavior to achieve a
sustainable modal shift to bicyclqsand (d) a safety strategy to minimize bicycle accidents and to
maximize personal security. As the primary aim is to reduce air pollution and GHG emissions, the
component would target existing and potential car users - the number of which is rapidly increasing with
generally favorable economic growth - and thus focus on zones with relatively high car ownership; this
would be in contrast to similar bikeway programs elsewhere, such as Lima, which primarily addressed
the transport needs of the low-income population. On the other hand, the project will help catalyze future
investments and raise bicycle use in other parts of the city.



7
PID
1.2    Modernizing the bus system
This component will support the development of the new bus system for Santiago, which will not only
provide a more efficient use of buses (reducing bus fleet, increasing bus occupancy, and increasing
average speed), but also will provide an opportunity to renew the bus fleet both at the city level (through
the penetration of proven clean bus technologies), and at the national level the component is structured in
3 sub-components:
1.2.1  Technical assistancefor evaluating the economic and environmental impact of clean
technologiesfor buses
This component will provide technical assistance to compare technical and environmental performance
and associated costs of hybrid-electric buses with CNG and diesel ones. The project will allow the
economic and environmental evaluation of the potential introduction of the hybrid diesel-electric
technology to Santiago's public bus fleet. As emissions reduction benefits and related costs will be
determined, regulators will have the relevant information needed for the establishment of more stringent
emission standards for Santiago. CGTS is in the process of allocating the contracts for bus operation
along the major Santiago corridors under a newly restructured public transport system; in this respect, the
outcomes from this project will allow the regulators to determine emission standards so that operators
can be obliged to have bus fleets with a mix of conventional and cleaner vehicles.
1.2.2 Implementation Framework for Bus Reform
In order to complement the building of segregated busways, for which a complementary World Bank
loan will be utilized, technical assistance under this component will support a review of management and
business organization measures that are required to effectively operate the new corridor infrastructure,
including a system of business organization, the concessions for specific bus line operations, and the
structuring of integrated fares. It will also fund the formulation of a program to retrain existing bus
drivers that would leave the public transport business, and to assist them in inserting them in other
sectors of the economy. Moreover, this component will support the establishment of a framework to
monitor the environmental, social and operational effects of the new system.
1.2.3 Renewal of the bus fleet
The project will finance a strategic study to define ways of synchronizing and coordinating the removal
of "not-so-old" buses from the streets of Santiago, which will be displaced by the new articulated EURO
III buses which will run in the trunk lanes. The study will identify options for ensuring a national
modernization of the bus fleet to rationalize public transport capacity.
1.3    Assessment of land-use incentives and policies to reduce motorized travel
This component aims at rationalizing the location of centers of activity, reducing trip lengths, improving
traffic flow, and promoting modal shift. The component will be structured in 3 sub-components:



8
PID
1.3.1 Developing the Central Ring of Santiago (Anillo Central)
The project will fund studies to calculate the environmental impacts of urban development policies
aiming at spurring the development of housing projects located on the Anillo Central, based on potential
policy options. Thus, the study will help decision-makers to better evaluate the development of currently
available central sites according to the expected impact on transport, air pollution and global warming.
1.3.2 School Location
The GEF grant will fund studies to assess the economic and environmental impact of locating new school
facilities so that the average trip length can be reduced. This is key now that the full school day (Jornada
Escolar Completa or JEC) is being established, requiring schools to expand to attend a double student
load before 2010 nationwide. In addition to this, secondary education was recently made compulsory,
which further increased higher capacity requirements.
1.3.3 Housing Policy
The project will provide technical assistance to the authorities in charge of housing policies and
regulations, so that the transport and environment dimensions can be better integrated into policy making.
Recommendations would be aimed at the reduction of the average trip, or at a modal shift to less
polluting transport modes.
1.4   Improving Traffic Flows
1.4.1  Traffic Calming at City Center
This subcomponent would fund studies to identify sound traffic calming measures to reduce car traveling
at the historic center of Santiago, including a diagnostic phase, a design phase, stakeholder consultation,
and integrating the need for GHG emission reductions into the specific engineering designs for the civil
works.
1.4.2 Road pricing
This component aims at reducing and rationalizing the use of private vehicles, by means of road or
congestion pricing measures which would internalize external costs imposed on society by car drivers.
Pricing would not only help reduce traffic volumes, but could also generate additional sources of finance
for transport improvements. The grant will fund a study to investigate the likely social, environmental
and economic effects of various forms of road pricing, the conditions under which it is likely to be
acceptable, and the best mechanism for its implementation.
1.5    Strategic environmental assessment
The project will fund advisory work to ensure coordination of sector policies, programs, and projects
(ppp) dealing with transport, urban development, and environment. To that end, the project will help
develop tools to integrate environmental management within the scope of the development of urban
transport plans and policies, including land-use pattern changes, pricing, and tariff schemes.



9
PID
1.6    Travel Harmonization
The project will support a study to evaluate the feasibility of implementing a large scale program to make
a rational use of private cars and integration of travel modes in family groups, including the identification
of private entities interested in co-financing and/or participating in the implementation of the overall
program; and the implementation of a medium scale pilot phase. The project will draw from the
successful experience of 1997 carried out by SECTRA in Santiago for a small number of households.
The objective is to reduce travel frequency and time, based on the systematic record of travel needs and
practice. Using the private car more efficiently according to pre-established travel plans will allow
important reductions in fuel, time and emissions.
1.7    Decontamination Bonds
The project will fund a study to evaluate options for promoting further local investment in sustainable
transport by integrating GHG emission reductions into the new Decontamination Bonds Program to cap
air quality emissions in Chile. The initial setup will be focused in Santiago, considering that most of the
transport related emissions in the country are generated in the city. This program, currently being
established by CONAMA, will allow emission reductions resulting from sustainable transport measures,
to compensate emissions from existing polluters exceeding the norms, and/or from new polluters required
to compensate for adding new emissions into the system. The system has been devised to enable NOx
and PM reductions. GEF incremental support would also help raise the awareness of the opportunities for
emission off-set investments in sustainable transport, and ensure that the program can also take into
consideration the additional green house gas benefits of these investments (provide extra "credit" or
incentives for investments that include additional global benefits). To help the system become operative,
the project will provide technical assistance to assess needs and options for including the tranport related
greenhouse gas benefits into the permit clearinghouse; further support for devising methodologies to
measuring carbon reduction benefits in the transport sector; address aspects of integrating the transport
sector into proposed financial mechanisms; and studies and awareness raising activities that promote the
sustainable transport market potential. The expected result is an impact assessment in terms of potential
C02 reductions in the transport sector, a strategy for building a solid local carbon market; the
identification of pilot sustainable transport projects; and technical assistance support for early transport
demonstration pilots. (GEF contribution is estimated at $500,000)
Promotion of Bicicle Use
Modernization of Bus System
Assesment of Land Use Incentives and policies to reduce motorized travel
Improving Traffic Flows
Strategic Environmental Assessment
Travel Harmonization
Decontamination Bonds
Project Management
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT         $6.97
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY              $6.98
Total Project Cost         $13.95



10
PID
6. Implementation
The Executing Agency for the project will be the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago
which will be in charge of coordinating with other local and national agencies such as SECTRA, the
Ministries of Transport and Public Works, Planning, and Housing, and the local municipalities. UNDP
will continue to act as the local disbursement agent, as it has done during preparation and PDF-B
implementation. With regards to the different project components, there will be different implementation
arrangements as explained below.
4.1    Promotion of bicycle use
This component will be primarily implemented by the Comunas of Santiago, Nunioa, and Providencia, in
particular in what respects to the building of bike pathways, safety devices, and connecting works. As per
the implementation of the campaign to promote bicycle use, the project would be implemented by the
Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago-CGTS, with the participation of public and private
parties, including Metro, as relates to facilities for parking bicycles, and to shower and locker facilities.
4.2    Modernizing the Bus System
The field test will be implemented by private companies in association with 3CV. Private companies will
provide the buses to be tested, as well as the routes where the tests will be run. 3CV and CONAMA-RM
will coordinate the development of driving cycles for Santiago, and will oversee the field test
development. The Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago-CGTS will be in charge of
coordinating overall implementation o fthe whole component.
4.3    Land-Use Component
This component will have a diverse institutional participation. (a)Development ofAnillo Centralwill be
mainly implemented by private real estate companies, and with an active participation of the Ministry of
Housing. (b)School Locationwill depend on close coordination with local municipalities and the
Ministry of Education. (c)Social Housingwill depend on policies and regulations by the Ministry of
Housing. In all cases the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago-CGTS will be in charge of
coordinating overall implementation.
4.4    Improving Traffic Flows
This component will be implemented by the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago-CGTS and
will require a close coordination and participation of the local Comunas, the Ministries of Transport,
Housing, and Planning, and the Congress.
4.5    Travel Harmonization
In this component, the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago-CGTS will be the implementing
body, although an active participation of public and private enterprises is required to be able to
implement a large scale project.
4.6    Strategic Environmental Planning and Assessment
This component will be primarily implemented by the Executive Commission for Transport in
Santiago-CGTS, although an active participation of the Ministries of Transport, Housing, CONAMA,
and its local dependencies is also required.



11
PID
4.7    Decontamination Bonds
This component will be implemented by CONAMA, and will require an active participation of market
participants.
7. Sustainability
Much of the project is intended to remove barriers that prevent the pursued measures to take place in the
first place, and thereafter to become sustainable. Most components depend on behavioral changes which
will triggered by the project. Financial sustainability will depend in most cases on those changes, and
only the component on bicycles directly involves insfrastructure development.
(i) Promotion of bicycle use Increased bicycle use is already part of Santiago's stated transport
objectives. In view of the strong support by Government and civil society, this component is likely to
sustain itself after completion of the GEF project. It is also expected that the non-motorized transport
component would have a positive demonstration effect which would (a) strengthen political support for
the PTUS bikeway program, (b) provide incentives for District Mayors to initiate similar programs and
(c) in combination with the travel harmonization concept mentioned above, contribute to an overall
modal shift which could be replicated in other cities. In addition, it is hoped that a positive outcome of
this subproject will convince the Metro management to provide bicycle parking facilities at more rail
rapid transit stations.
Bikeways will be maintained by the Comunas, as they not only serve the purpose of facilitating
non-motorized transport but also of enhancing public space. Its use, though, will depend on cultural
pattern changes to be effected by the project. The Comunas have already formally committed to invest in
the bikeways that make part of the GEF co-funded network.
(ii) Modernizing the bus system Sustainability is one of the key elements with regards to the gradual
change in bus technologies. As the routes are to be allocated for a relatively long period of time, the
initial technological upgrade is guaranteed to last. In addition, the construction and use of segregated bus
lanes, operated with large articulated buses running on clean technologies is a gradual process expected
to expand over time until the main routes network gets rationalized and modernized; this means a
sustained and growing potential demand for clean technologies. Besides, CONAMA is considering the
introduction of a subsidies plan that would add a larger boost for the introduction of clean technologies to
the city. Moreover, as the technologies become more commercially available, and production lines get
maximized at the suppliers' end, investment and maintenance costs (batteries) for operators are expected
to decrease over time. The concept of linking emission performance to routes concessions has a high
potential for replicability in other Latin American cities such as Bogota, Mexico, Sao Paulo and Lima.
Emission reduction results will be key to promote the replication scheme through the Bank's Clean Air
Initiative, and directly through on-going Bank operations.
In this case, the studies are aimed at promoting the modernization o the bus fleet. The laboratory at 3CV
will be upgraded, and both co-funding and future maintenance will come from the government. Once the
project is completed, there will be local capacity able to perform similar tests (including laboratory) for
any other heavy-duty vehicles available in the future. All other elements are not dependent on financial
support, but on stakeholder conduct. Bus owners will be induced to renovate their fleet based on te
development of standards, and on the removal of risk barriers. Since not all routes and services are to be
concessioned immediately, the project will provide for informing the bidding processes taking place from
2005 onwards. Since this is a test, the results will need to determine whether more stringent regulation on
fleet emissions can be developed.



12
PID
The study on options for modernizing the bus fleet in Chile is aimed at informing decision makers on
options available, and on impacts and related costs. The expected follow-up is the development of
policies and programs to incentivate the fleet renewal. The study to support the framework for the new
bus system, will be followed by programs for drivers and bus owners reinsertion to productive activities;
lines of credit, and further training are some of the options already envisioned.
(iii) Land-use incentives, Land-use pattern change is a long term process that is likewise expected to
last. The team believes that localization of additional housing and services can be oriented towards
certain goals but is also conscious that this process obviously takes time. The expected benefits to be
reaped from this component will need time to materialize and the relevant time-scale is to be measured in
years, if not in decades. The other side of that coin is that once the urban pattern is consolidated, and
once development has materialized along certain corridors or areas that are propitious to sustainable
transport behaviors, this cannot change overnight and these transport behaviors can reasonably be
expected to be long-lasting, and to yield important benefits. The question is then to make sure that the
same guidelines regarding land-use will be followed after the GEF grant closes. This will depend to a
great extent on the success and attractiveness of the real estate developments projects to be designed
under the GEF grant and this is why a lot of emphasis will be put on public outreach and on the quality of
the design of these projects. The involvement of students from the Catholic University and from MIT
should generate appealing and innovative proposals from an urban landscaping perspective, which will
obviously increase the likelihood of success of these environment-friendly real estate development
project(s), even more so since the mandate of these universities is to design projects that fits into an
overall program of urban sustainability.
Here, the project will undertake studies that are expected to affect land-use policies Financial
sustainability is not a direct issue at this stage. Once the real estate options get developed, the market is
expected to sustain the component.
Improving Traffic Flows:
(iv) Road pricing In this case, sustainability will depend on the design of the tarification schemes,
once they can take place from a legal and political perspective. The project is contributing to remove
those barriers; financial sustainability is directly linked to the particular design of road pricing scheme
being developed. As an example, as far as the experience in London shows, financial sustainability is not
an issue.Traffic calming.Here, maintenance will come from the Comuna involved, as this type of
measures is linked to the municipality's own public space development.
(v) Traffic calming. Here, maintenance will come from the Comuna involved, as this type of
measures is linked to the municipality's own public space development.
(vi) Travel harmonization. This component requires a behavioral change that is theoretically triggered
by self-interest, since participants are not forced into changing their behavior by decrees or laws, or not
even induced to do so through incentives which may not be sustainable over time. Participants are
expected to change their way of traveling through being provided with a more accurate and
comprehensive information about available transport alternatives, that may greatly differ from their
current perception which may be incomplete. If, as expected, participants reap sizable benefits, in time
and/or money savings, from these changes, the sustainability of the concept can be taken for granted. The



13
PID
consultants in charge of the program will need to identify for each participating household attractive
alternative modes of travel, and/or alternative destinations easier to reach by clean modes and that deliver
the same services as the current ones. Then, when informed about this wider array of choices regarding
travel modes and destinations, the members of the participating households should adapt their travel
behavior to this new information and adopt new transport-related strategies, that, for being more
attractive, will be sustainable. As with the other components, once results are attained and published,
replicability will be pursued in other Latin American cities mainly through the Clean Air Initiative.
Financial sustainability is directly linked to the cultural change induced in the participants, and on the
ability of the project to foster replicability.
(vii) Decontamination Bonds As with the road pricing, financial viability and sustainability strongly
depends on the design. How well demand and supply can be matched will inject sustainable liquidity to
the market.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has a long-standing involvement in the sector of air quality management in general, and its
interrelationship with urban transport in particular. The first loan in this regard, approved in 1992, had
the objective of reducing traffic-generated air pollution in Mexico City. Stemming largely from that
participation, the Clean Air Initiative in Latin American Cities was set up in 1997, which has been highly
successful in disseminating experiences among major cities, including Santiago; similar clean air
initiatives have now been started in East Europe, Asia and Africa. In addition, recent strategy papers on
Pollution Management and Urban Transport discuss extensively the effects of urban traffic on air
quality, and urban transport operations in Bogota, Buenos Aires, Lima and Sao Paulo include air quality
management components in their design. Some of the lessons learned include:
3.1    Air quality management and urban transport development involve long-term issues that
require long-term responses
Changes in personal travel behavior - a key element to reduce traffic-generated air pollution - are
unlikely to occur unless there is a long-term government commitment to sustainable transport. Similarly,
improvements in air quality require the kind of long-term vision that has been spelled out in Mexico City
with the publication of the Air Quality Management Plan for 2002-2010. The proposed project would
support similar long-range plans that have already been formulated in Santiago for transport and air
pollution.
3.2    Planning for the long term, however, requires flexibility
Experience in Mexico City has shown that, despite the best planning efforts in the preparatory stage, the
need for adjustments in air quality activities becomes evident only during the implementation of the
plan. Similarly, the Implementation Completion Report for the Bogota Urban Transport Project states
that "flexibility should be encouraged in some subcomponents, procedures or new technology areas.
This occurred in the case of the Transmilenio components where adaptations had to be made in various
areas (platforms, bike paths, bridges, surfacing materials, etc, and with very satisfactory results".
Therefore, while each component of the proposed project has been defined in considerable detail, the
Grant Agreement should leave room for modifications during its implementation.



14
PID
3.3    The Bank's involvement should support an overall Government strategy
This applies to most World Bank operations. The more successful urban transport and air quality
projects, such as the one in Bogota - and indeed the Chile Urban Streets and Transport project - confirm
this maxim. The proposed GEF project would fully support the objectives of Santiago's air quality
strategy and the Santiago Urban Transport Plan 2000-2010 (PTUS) by testing key elements of the
existing government policies.
3.4    Community Participation is Vital For Success
The PAD for the recently approved GEF grant to support the introduction of climate friendly measures in
transport of Mexico City stresses that a "participatory approach, incorporating public opinion in the
project, is required to establish legitimacy of the project". Similarly, the Bogota experience demonstrates
the importance of community involvement which contributed to the public acceptance, even pride, for
several "project outputs, notably TransMilenio and the bike paths". The proposed project - especially
the components aiming at increase bicycle use - was prepared in close consultation with civil society and
district governments; this collaboration would continue during project implementation.
3.5    More construction of bikeways does not ensure the increased use of bicycles
In 1996, about 46 km of Bank-financed bikeways were successfully implemented in Lima, connecting an
industrial area with low-income residential zones. However, the number of cyclists did not increase
significantly, as the project did not include a coherent strategy to overcome the cultural barriers
inhibiting bicycle use. Even in Bogota, where over 200 km of bikeways were built in the last four years,
the growth in cycling has been modest, and the Government intends to implement - under the next
Bank-financed project - a promotional strategy to raise bicycle use. Therefore, an important component
of the proposed project would initiate the process of cultural change through a multi-pronged
promotional strategy aimed at making bicycle use more attractive in the minds of the population.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The project will involve relatively minor works to insert bikeways into existing streets, and thus no
settlements will be affected. Nonetheless, the construction will follow the environmental guidelines from
CONAMA, to ensure that materials, noise, and traffic flow get well managed. The bikeway designs will
be subject to an independent safety audit, and the construction contract will involve an environmental
assessment and management plan. As to the rest of the project, there will be environmental benefits. The
field test will take place on operating routes. The rest will be studies with indirect benefits in the future.
The project will involve the construction of 19 km of bikeways which will connect existing bikeways. No
significant adverse environmental impacts of the project are envisaged, as project activity will be taking
place in urban areas with considerable development and human activity and previous intervention.
Environmental activities during construction will be limited and may include: (i) interruptions to
vehicular and pedestrian traffic; (ii) noise; (iii) impacts on safety of road users; (iv) limitation of access
to dwellings or businesses. To mitigate these impacts, the project will follow environmental guidelines
for construction prepared by CONAMA RM. No resettlement of persons as a result of the project is
envisaged.



15
PID
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Juan Lopez-Silva
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 202 458 5721
Fax: 202 522 3132
12 For information on other project related documents contact.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http I1 www.worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/14/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
[ SRCH IZII 1  LFEED5ACKIIuIZ L          MAP I   LOWCA5 IZ@



