                                                Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                    FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                                                   Report No: 26848-CL




                                    PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                    PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY

                                   INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$6.98 million

                                                 TO THE

                                           REPUBLICOFCHILE

                                                 FOR THE

                    SUSTAINABLETRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY FOR SANTIAGO (GEF)




                                             OCTOBER 17,2003




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management UnitArgentina, Chile and Uruguay
LatinAmerica and Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Itscontentsmay not be otherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                               (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit  =   Chilean Peso
                                  Ch$700  = US$l.OO
                                  US$l.OO =   Ch$700

                                    FISCAL, YEAR
                                     2004 -- 2008

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 3 c v         MinistryofTransport's Emissions TestingLaboratory
 CAI         1I Clean Air Initiative
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
Ceq             Carbon Equivalent
CER             Certified Emissions Reduction
CGTS            Coordinacibn General de Transporte de Santiago
CNG             CompressedNatural Gas
co              Carbon Monoxide
IC02         I CarbonDioxide                                                     I
CONAMA          Comisibn Nacionalde Medio Ambiente
CONAMA-RM       CONAMA RegibnMetropolitana
CONASET         ComisibnNacional de Seguridad del Trhnsito
cvs             ConstantVolume Sampler System
DDO             Deferred Drawdown Option Loan
ECA             Europe and Central Asia
IECLAC
IEMP         II Economic Commission for LatinAmerica an the Caribbean
                Environmental Management Plan                                    II
ESCO            Energy Service Company
FMS             FinancialManagement Specialist
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GEF             Global Environment Facility
GHG             Green House Gases
GIS             Geographical Information System
IGTZ         I German International Aid Arrencv                                  I
GWP             GlobalWarming Potential
IADB            Inter American Development Bank
IBRD            International Bank for Reconslmction and Development
IFC             InternationalFinance Corporation
IPCC            IntergovernmentalPanel for Climate Change
JEC             JornadaEscolar Completa
MIDEPLAN        Ministerio de Planificacibn
IMINVU       I Ministerio de Vivienda. Urbanism0 v Bienes Nacionales             I
MIT             Massachusetts Instituteof Technology
MOPTT           Ministerio de Obras Publicas, Transporte y Telecomunicaciones

                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




     kGO               I Non Governmental Organization
     tNOX              1 Nitrous Oxide                                                         II
     PCF                 Prototype Carbon Fund
      PDF-B              Project Development Facility Block B
      PDO                Project Development Objective
     PMlO                Particulate Matter
     PTUS                Plan de Transporte Urbano para Santiago
      SECTRA             SecretariaEiecutivaDara la Comisi6n de TransDorte
     ISEREMITT         I Servicio Regional delMinisterio de TransDorte v Telecomunicaciones    I
      SERVIU             Servicio Regional de Vialidad y Urbanism0
      sox                Sulfkr Oxides
     TRANSANTIAGO        Plan de Transporte Urbano para Santiago
     UNDP               UnitedNationsDevelopment Programme
     voc                 Volatile Organic Compounds
      WBI               World Bank Institute



                                   Vice President:     DavidDe Ferranti
                       Country ManagerDirector:        Axel Van Trotsenburg
                         Sector Managermirector:       JohnRedwood
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        JuanLopez-Silva




This document hasa restricted distributionandmay be usedby recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
[withoutWorld Bank authorization.


                                               CHILE
           SUSTAINABLETRANSPORTAND AIR QUALITY FOR SANTIAGO (GEF)


                                              CONTENTS




A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                       Page

   1. Project development objective                                                     2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                        2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project      3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        7
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  12

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                14
   2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                      18
   3. Benefits andtarget population                                                     19
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     19

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                           20
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      21
   3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                 23
   4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                    25
   5. Value addedo f Bank and Global support inthis project                             25

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                          25
   2. Financial                                                                         26
   3. Technical                                                                         26
   4. Institutional                                                                     26
   5. Environmental                                                                     28
   6. Social                                                                            29
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                 31

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                    31

       2. Critical risks                                                                      35
       3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      37


     G. Main Conditions

       1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             37
       2. Other                                                                               38

     H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           38

     I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             38

..   Annexes

     Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          39
     Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     44
     Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          52
     Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            53
     Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    62
     Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                                                     63
               (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements                             70
     Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                      76
     Annex 8:  Documents inthe Project File                                                   77
     Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 79
     Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            81
     Annex 11:ParticipationPlan                                                               83
     Annex 12: Measuring the Air Quality inSantiago, The Predictive Model                     85
     Annex 13: GlobalEnvironmentalImpact Calculation                                          88
     Annex 14: TRANSANTIAGO-Preliminary elements for a new public transport system            90
               development
     Annex 15: Methodology for estimating emissionsusingMODEM and ESTRAUS                     92
..   Annex 16: REVIEWOF "PROJECT CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT: CHILE: SUSTAINABLE                      94
               TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY FOR SANTIAGO

                                                      CHILE
                              Sustainable Transport andAir Quality for Santiago (GEF)
                                      ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                        Latin America andCaribbeanRegion
                                                     LCSEN

   Date: October 17, 2003                                Team Leader: Juan Lopez-Silva
   Sector Director: John Redwood                         Sector(s): Roads andhighways(50%), Sub-national
   Country ManagerAIirector: Axel van Trotsenburg        governmentadministration(50%)
   ProjectID: PO73985                                    Theme@): Climatechange (P), Participationand civic
   FocalArea: C Climate change
                -                                        engagement (P)


   [ ]Loan        [ ] Credit   [XI Grant       [ ]Guarantee         [ ]Other:
   For LoanslCreditslOthers:
   Amount (US$m): 6,98
  -inancing Plan iUS$m):       Source                                  Local         Foreign        Total
   BORROWERRECIPIENT                                                     7.01            0.00           7.01
.' 3LOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                           6.98            0.00           6.98
  mal:                                                                   13.99           0.00         13.99

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
1.1.      To help reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) from ground transport in Santiago through the promotion
o f a long-term modal shift to more efficient and less polluting forms o f transport, and the adoption o f
sustainable low-GHG transport measures. To that end, the project will support the implementation of the
2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago (TRANSANTIAGO, formerly known as PTUS), a
comprehensive multi-sector plan, which is consistent with the overall objectives of the GEF operational
program on sustainable transport. The plan's specific objectives are to (i)maintain share of public
transport (60% of total trips); (ii)promote rational managemento f transport demand, internalizing all costs
from car travel; (iii)promote land-use policies that take into account environmental and transport
dimensions helping reduce the average trip length; (iv) promote better coordination between agencies
dealing with transport related policies and issues; and (v) reduce emissions o f air pollutants from public
transport (70% o f PMlO and 45% o f NOx emissions from 1997 levels). A major outcome of
TRANSANTIAGOwill be the restructuring of the city's transport system starting in 2005; the system of
bus routes and the concession process will be modified, allowing substantial gains in efficiency and
profitability for the bus operators. Section B.2 and Annex V provide additional information about the
plan's genesis, programs, and preliminary measures.

1.2. To help improve Santiago's air quality, through reducing emissions of air pollutants like SOX, COY
PM, and NOx (which together with VOCs contribute to the formation of smog or tropospheric ozone
(03)).


2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance will bemeasuredusingtwo types o f indicators. Long-termperformance indicators, relatedto
the implementation ofTRANSANTIAGO; andProjectperformance indicators, to measurethe achievement
o fthe development objective. See Annex Ifor a better understanding of indicators and their relation to
PDO, CAS, and Project Components.

2.1. TRANSANTIAGOPerformance Indicators
(i)       Shareofpublic transport maintained(as % of total trips);
    (ii)     Land-use policiesinplace to favor reductionof average trip length(expressedinWtrip);
    (iii)    Technological Regulatory Incentives for introducingcleantechnologies for transport removed,
             indicatedby at least 1test per commercially available bustechnology; and by the introduction
             o f at least 1regulatory measure or biddingcondition to ensure introductiono f clean bus
             technologies);
(iv)     Non-motorized transport share o f total trips increased (as % of total trips);
(v)      Air quality indicators improvedinspite ofeconomic anddemographicgrowth (reductions in
concentration of controlledair pollutants);
(vi)     Reducedcarbon intensity per travelled km(inC e q h ) ; and
(vii)    Evidence o fbehavioural change towards more rational transport demand.


2.2. Project Performance Indicators
(i)      Component 1: a) Increaseduse o f bicycle as a transport mode (number of bike trips inproject
area) ), inparticular within and betweenthe municipalities (commas) o f Santiago, Providencia, and



                                                     - 2 -

hiioa; andb) reduced number o fbicycle accidentsper 1,000 bicycle trips inthose comunas.
(ii)     Component 2: a) Upgrading of local emissions testing laboratory ( 3 0 (so that it can perform
up-to-date emission testing for heavy-duty vehicles); andimplementation o ftests comparing economic,
environmental, andtechnical performance of 3 commercially available technologies for buses (hybrid
diesel-electric, diesel, andCNG); b) Review and developmentofbusinessschemes and management
structures for the operators of the new public transport systemof Santiago, including design ofprogram to
retrainbus drivers and operators; c) Program for monitoring environmental, social, and operational effects
of new bus system inplace; andd) Assessmentof scrappingor relocation options for displaced buses
resulting from the bus systemreform.
(iii)    Component 3: Institutional coordination of urban transport policies, incorporating environmental,
and land-use dimensions. Environmentalassessmentof TRANSANTIAGO.
(iv)     Component 4 a) Assessment of several urban development options for the Anillo Central from a
transport and globalllocal emissions perspective and incorporation of the results inthe decision-making
processregarding land-usepolicies inthis area.; b) Assessment of options to integrate land-use and
transport policies, and re-evaluate policies for housing and school location; c) Completion of detailed
engineering andregulatory studies for traffic calming measures inthe city center; d) Assessment of
institutional, legal, andtechnical options for Congestion Pricing in Santiago; e) Feasibility assessment of
Travel Optimizationpilot, andReduction inthe number ofveh-km generatedby the people pertainingto the
sample usedfor the travel optimizationpilot study; 9 design of legal, financial, and institutionaloptions for
incorporationo f GHGemission reductions into the nascent programto trade emission reductions from
mobile andpoint sources inChile.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 23329-CH          Date of latest CAS discussion: January 23,2002



la. Global Operational strategyProgram objective addressedby the project:
The project i s consistent with the goals and strategic approach set out in the 2002 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS); also, in its pipeline, as part of the Non-Lending Services, the CAS already identified the
development o f a SustainableTransport and Air Quality Management Project.

Supporting a plan to enable a more efficient and cleaner transport allows for a sustainable, and equitable
growth. Transport efficiency contributes to improved productivity while allowing for a reduction in air
pollution and GHG emissions. The poorest segments of population benefit as accessibility is improved
through an enhanced public transport system and better options for non motorized travel. From an
environmental perspective, reducing the average trip length implies less use of fuel, and consequently less
emissions of local and global pollutants. The most vulnerable population, the poor inparticular, are prone
to be more exposed to air pollution. Not only the economic and community activity in poorer
neighborhoods takes place near congested areas (where the vehicle fleet tends to be older and more
polluting); also, some o f the poorest areas o f Santiago, such as Pudahuel, are exposed to a higher
concentration o f local pollutants as a result o f photochemical and dispersion conditions o f the city, where
thermal inversion further contributes to exacerbatethe effects on health. Consequencesof air pollution are
quickly translated into decreased productivity and increased health treatment costs, affecting the family
income. In general, air quality contributes to achieving a better quality of life, which together with a
competitive economy, and an adequate transport system establish favorable conditions to attract direct
investment flows.



                                                      - 3 -

In line with the CAS objectives, the project will (i)     enhance sustained economic growth and social
progress through improving accessibility, making the city more appealing and favoring a larger effective
labor market (Le., the average number ofjobs accessible from any point of the city). This will increase the
economic output o f a region which already yields 47 % of Chile's GDP, and will generate a trickle-down
effect that will most likely have a very positive impact on the poor. It will (ii)
                                                                                heightenthe inclusionof the
mostvulnerable groups; a more reliable and quick public transport system is expectedto address the low
levels o f mobility of the poor, reducing their exclusion through improved access to services and
opportunities at affordable prices and reasonable travel times, hence contributing to a more socially
inclusive growth pattern. The project will (iii)improve environmental conditionsina city where pollution
reaches very high levels and primarily affects the poor. Reduction inemissions o f air pollutants and GHG
will result from a less intensive use of fuel, to be achieved through supporting measures to rationalize
public transport supply, promote modal shift to public and non-motorized transport, relieve congestion
through a better use o f road space, and through innovative measures such as travel demand rationalization.
The project will also (iv) promote public private partnerships through a renovatedconcessionmechanism
for private operators to provide public transport services. To end with, the project will (v) modernize the
state and build its capacity :(a) it will reinforce CONAMA's capacity to deal with global environmental
issues and participate in the reinforcement of the State technical capacity and its ability to enforce
environmental regulations with minimal impact on the pace of economic growth; (b) strengthen
coordination between public entities in charge of transport planning, urban planning and environmental
management and (c) strengthen the recently created entity (CGTS) responsible for urban transport at the
level of Santiago's metropolitanarea.

Complementing this GEF project, and as a result of the continuous dialogue on transport and environment,
the Government o f Chile has formally requested a USDlOOM IBRD adjustment loan to support
TRANSANTIAGO(a potential Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), according to the latest exchangeswith
GoCH). The loan will mainly support a set o f reforms in the urban transport sector: (i)bus route
restructuring :the proposed route restructuring will establish a trunk and feeder network, incorporating
bus and metro services. The purpose o f this structure is to avoid competition on the road as a means o f
improving the discipline and safety o f operations, and to generate operating cost savings and air quality
benefits through the rationalizationof the public transport supply. (ii) reduction in car use (i.e. congestion
pricing) combined with bus segregationfrom general traffic; (iii)        fare integration, to integrate all bus
and metro fares in a single system; (iv) finance reform aiming at making the system financially self
sufficient; (v) institutional reform :operators will have to merge and corporatize. Infrastructure, ticketing
and cash management fi-anchisees will have to be formed. The creation o f a specialpurpose agency will be

infrastructure investment, traffic management, and bus franchising at the metropolitan level . The GEF
encouraged to ensure co-ordination o f public sector activities in land use and transport planning,

project will help remove barriers for the implementation of key elements of TRANSANTIAGO, such as
Congestion Pricing or the rationaluse oftransport modes; which would also be supportedunder the loan; in
particular it will advance the studies and designs for traffic calming measures, for upgrading CONAMA's
emission reduction trading program, and for supporting the creation o f enterprises to operate within the
new bus routes system under a reduced number of vehicles. Commitment from the Government of Chile i s
strong, as TRANSANTIAGO is not only a critical plan for the development of Santiago and its
metropolitanarea, but it is also highlysupportedby President Lagos andhis administration.

Inparallel with the adjustment loan, the Bank is preparinga Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) to ensure
that finance is immediately and specifically available to facilitate compliance with the policy triggers for
disbursements under the SAL; and to finance the analysis and mitigation of the various potential adverse



                                                     - 4 -

.`
       impacts and risks associatedto the implementation o f TRANSANTIAGO, inparticular those related to the
       restructuring of the public transport system. More specifically, it i s suggestedthat a TAL should include
       components such as: (i)analysis o f the distributional effects of the first phase measures in
       TRANSANTIAGO, with particular reference to the balance between walking time, waiting time and
       in-vehicle time effects for the poorer comunas; (ii)    development of retraining programs for existing bus
       drivers who would become redundant under the reformed system; (iii)       assistance with the design o f new
       franchise contract documents; (iv) retraining in modem bus systems management for bus owners and
       managers; (v) assistance inthe analysis and design o f a metropolitan transport planning agency suitable for
       the specific Santiago circumstances; (vi) elaboration o f the draft Law to establish a congestion pricing
       mechanism in Santiago; (vii) set the stage for the establishment of a formal mechanism of coordination
       between land use planning (MINVU) and urban transport planning, especially focusing on housing
       location; (viii) monitoring of the environmental impacts of TRANSANTIAGO on air quality and possible
       researchprograms on the impacts of PM2.5 and ozone on public health; (ix) implementation of Strategic
       Environmental Assessment and Planning policies, initiated under the GEF project. The following table
       shows how the Bank and other agencies support TRANSANTIAGO'Simplementation.

                        TRANSANTIAGO:support by IBRD and other internationalagencies
..     Modernizing Public Transport       Concept design
       Svstem                                                               IADB
      I                                 I Concession schemes              II
                                                                            IADB
                                          Busrouterestructuring and       IBRD/ SAL,
                                          segregationofbus lanes
                                          Fare intemation                 IBRD/ SAL
                                          Advancement to financial        IBRD/ SAL,
                                          self-sufficiency
                                          Technology testing for new      IBRD/ GEF
                                          buses
                                          Assessmento f options for       IBRD/GEF
                                         reusing displaced "not-so-old"
                                         buses fkom Santiago
                                          Development ofnew enterprise IBRD/ S A L
                                          schemes for operators, and
                                          institution development for
                                         new system(tariff collection,
                                         maintenance, cash
                                         management)
                                         Evaluation o f social impact o f IBRD/GEF
                                         new system, and design-of
                                          social plan for displaced
                                         operators
                                         Pilot training for transit       IADB
                                         workers
                                         Development of retraining        IBRD/ TAL
                                         program for redundant labor
                                         Economic analysis o f            IBRD/ SAL
                                         distributional effects from


                                                            - 5 -

                             reform
                             Promotion of cleanbus            BRD / Carbon Funding
                             technologies                     Jotential)
                             Financing ofnew corporate        FC (potential)
                             operating enterprises
RoadInvestments, and Traffic CongestionPricing: assessment IBRD/ GEF
Control and Regulationof     of social, legal, environmental
Private Transport            and economic effects of
                             various forms of Congestion
                             Pricing; technical options; and
                             implementation mechanisms
                             CongestionPricing: TA to         IBRD/ TAL
                             elaborate new regulatory
                             framework
                             itudyon traffic calming,         BRD / GEF
                             'arking, pedestrianinterventions:
                             adother revitalizationmeasures
                             rt historic center ofSantiago
                             're-feasibility analysis and     BRD / GEF
                             'otential Pilot Travel
                             Iutimizationexperience
Location o fEducational      Assessment o fenvironmental      IBRD/ GEF
Institutions                 and economic costs of school
                             location Dolicies
ChangeinResidential          Environmental and economic       IBRD/ GEF
Land-Use Trends              evaluation of MINWpolicies
                             to inform policy makers on
                             options to coordinate with
                             urban transport planning
                             Assessment ofpoliciesto          IBRD/ GEF
                             promote urban development o f
                             central ringof Santiagoto
                             measure impacts on transport
                             andenvironment andidenti@
                             alternatives or policy
                             instruments
Non-MotorizedTransport       Promotionof bicycle use,         IBRD/ GEF
                             including construction o f
                             bikewaysin3 Comunas, and
                             implementation o f safety and
                             promotionstrategies
Communications and Citizen's Communication and                IBRD/GEF
Participation                participationworkshops
                             Participationactivitiesrelated   IBRD/ SAL
                             to any potential infrastructure
                             works and the promotion o f
                             bicycle use
Institutional Strengthening  Strategic Environmental          IBRD/ GEF


                                                 - 6 -

                                    Support for implementation of    IBRD/ TAL
                                    StrategicEnvironmental
                                    Assessment recommendations
                                    issessmento foptions for formal IBRD/ TAL
                                    oordinating body onurban
                                    levelopmentand transport
                                    Upgrade and development of      IBRD/ GEF
                                    CONAMA's Decontamination
                                    Bonds Program to incorporate
                                    andpromote carbon emission
                                    reductions
                                    Institutionalstrengthening for  IBRD/ TAT-
                                    monitoring air pollution health
                                    and environmental impacts
                                    Development of single            IBRD/ TAL
                                    metropolitanauthority for
                                    urbantransport planningand
                                    implementation



2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy:
2.1     Issues
The TransportSystem and Travel Characteristics

Santiago i s served by a road and public transport system, which is generally well managed and
continuously being improved. Modern traffic engineering techniques - including a real-time computer
controlled signal system - are applied to the street network. The 40-km metro, the first section o f which
was inaugurated in 1975, i s an example o f efficient mass transit managementand serves 747,000 passenger
trips per day. Most public transport passengers, about 4.5 million per day (2001), travel on the 7,635
buses which are mostly owned by individuals or very small companies. In addition, there are suburban
railway lines, route taxis (colectivos) and regular taxis.

Chile's sustainedrate of economic growth has a large impact on Santiago's air quality and on its aggregate
environmental service capacity. With about 5.3 million inhabitants, Santiago ranks seventh among urban
areas in Latin America and concentrates about 40% of Chilean population. While population growth has
decelerated from 4.5% per annum during the 1950s to about 1.4%, residential settlements continue to
expand over an area o f more than 600 square kilometers. This adds to its intense economic activity.
Transport demand grows at a high pace, inflicting pressure on the urban transport system through
increasedtraffic and congestion, and generating increasedGHGemissions and air pollution.




                                                      - 7 -

Between 1991 and 2001, the population increasedby 30%, car registrations by 103%, and the number o f
trips (by all modes including walking) by 69%. O f great concern from the viewpoint of air pollution is the
growing use of the private car which has increasedfrom 12.3% o f motorizedperson trips in 1977 to 38.09
% in2001. Vehicle ownership ratesrose from 320 cars per 1000householdsin 1977 to 360 cars per 1000
households in 1991 and 560 cars per 1000 households in 2001, with still higher figures in the up-scale
districts such as Las Condes, Providencia and Vitacura.


                                      Modal participation in a Regular Labor Day

                           4,500,000

                           4,000,000
                        I  3,500,000

                           3,000,000                                                    I

                           2,500,000

                           2,000,000

                           1,500,000

                           1,000,000

                             500,000



                                      Auto    Bus       Metro       Taxi     Other
                                                               Mode



                                                   Source: SECTRA


As a whole, Santiago's transport system is much less chaotic than in other cities of Latin America and
highlycompetent transport planning entities combined with political commitment to tackle urbantransport
issues have shaped a fairly well organized and reliable transport system. Nevertheless, the urban transport
sector still suffers from acute problems which are still to be addressed and which can be summarized as
follows :


2.1.1 Air pollution

Much o f Santiago's pollution problem stems from its climate and topography. A thermal inversion acts as
a cap over the city during fall and winter (April-August), inhibitingthe dispersion o f pollutants, which is
further obstructed by the mountains surrounding the city. For more than ten years, the Government has
declared pre-emergency or emergency days when ambient levels o f particulate reach unhealthy levels.
Fortunately, the measures taken inthe last ten years have led to substantial improvements, reflected by a
much lower occurrenceo f emergency days. Nevertheless, air pollution levels are still too highand transport
i s the major contributor to local emissions; in October 2000, transport accounted for 91% o f CO emissions,
84% o f NOx, 48% o f PMlO, 34% o f Sox, and 38% of VOC emissions.




                                                        - 8 -

                           hissionsfrom Transport Sector in Chile ( Ton/ Yr), 2000


            160,000

            140,000

            P0,OOO

            100,000

            80,000

            60,000

            40,000

            20,000



                      Buses      Trucks   LightDutycat Light Duty non Light Duty Motorcycles Out of route
                                                            cat         diesel

                                             flPMDHCOONOxOCOVHSoxHNH3

                                               Source: CONAMA

The relatively highlevels of emissions and concentrations o f airborne pollutants affect health and quality o f
life. Ozone and PM2.5 are the pollutants of most concern in Santiago, as their concentrations still exceed
the air quality norms for the city. Besides their direct effect on health, PM10, NOxx and SOxx are major
precursors for the formation o f PM2.5, which inflicts serious health impacts, including increasedmorbidity
and mortality; and NOxx and VOCs are also precursors for ozone formation, which has in itself serious
local social costs, while contributing to global warming. Inaddition to the global warming potential (GWP)
of tropospheric ozone, transportation is a major source o f GHG, mostly in the form of C02. In Chile,
transportation i s the major source o f energy-related GHG emissions, accounting for about 37% o f C02
emissions. C02 i s emitted as a direct result o f fossil fuel combustion; in Santiago, these emissions are
mostly associated to the use of gasoline and diesel. Thus, measures aimed at improving efficiency of
transport flows, at promotingmodal shifts to non-motorized, or to less energy intensive modes o f transport,
and at adopting cleaner fuels and vehicles will not only help address local air pollution but will also reduce
GHGemissions.

A relatively recent study estimated that the annual costs of traffic-generated air pollution exceedUSD5OO
million in Santiago. It discussed the relative decline o f PMlO and carbon monoxide emissions in recent
years, but notedthat ozone levels hadgenerally beenincreasing. It also estimated that the transport system
emittednearly 4.2 million tons o f C02 in 1994, of which 68% were produced by passenger cars, taxis and
lighttrucks.




                                                       - 9 -

      2.1.2 Exponential increase of car use and ownership

      With about 5.3 million inhabitants, Santiago ranks seventh among urban areas in Latin America and
      concentratesabout 40% of Chilean population. Even though population growth has decelerated, residential
      settlements continue to expand and to generate increasingly long trips, more andmore difficult to be served
      satisfactorily by public transport. Inaddition to this, Chile's sustainedrate o f economic growth resulted in
      an increase o f car ownership in Santiago from 320 cars per 1000 household in 1977 to 560 cars per 1000
      households in 2001. During the same period of time, the number of person trips (by all modes including
      walking) went up by 69% and the average length of these trips went up as well. This growth in mobility,
      associatedwith an ever-higher share of motorized trips made by car (12.3% of motorized person trips in
.r    1977 to 38.09 % in2001) has been inflicting pressure on the urbantransport systemthrough ever-growing
      traffic and congestion. Considering the characteristic geographical conditions of the city, where the
     mountain chain around the city favors a thermal inversion in the colder months, this has a worrisome
      impact on Santiago's air quality.

     2.1.3 Relative deficiencies in the organization of the current bus system

      Inspite of a public transport reform inthe 199Os, which includednew regulations of bus standards (age,
      size, and useful life), there are still many elementsthat can be correctedto achieve a still more efficient bus
      system. Presently, bus operators are still competing inthe streets (competition inthe market, instead o f for
     the market)on the very same routes, which generates operating inefficiencies and dangerous driving
     behavior when touting for passengers. As bus ownership is quite fragmented (most owners own no more
     than a single bus) and as there are very few sizable companies, transport supply i s poorly coordinated,
     chaotic and does not adapt to demand levels. Oversupply during off-peak hours contributes to unnecessary
     congestion and pollution, and increasedoperating costs. Also, bus routes are long and cross the city from
     one extreme to the other, and most of them run through the city center and the most heavily loaded axes,
     adding further to already highlevels o f congestion. Finally, there is no tariff integration betweenbus routes,
     which helps create inequities as the poorest classes get affected, facing higher travel costs and less
     accessibility.


     2.1.4 Lack of inter-agency coordinationat the metropolitan level

     Coordination amongst the agencies dealing with transport and air pollution issues is still incipient. This
     stems from the diversity o f sectors and actors involved and from the absence of a coordinating transport
     body at the agglomeration level. However, environment and transport planning agencies have initiated a
     pro-active coordination around common goals and objectives, centeredon the improvement inthe quality of
     life. TRANSANTIAGOhas incorporated boththe local and global environmental dimension, and it is now
     clear that implementing the plan will bring about health benefits, and a less degraded city, while helping
     mitigate climate change.




                                                           -10-

#     2.2      Government Strategy


      2.2.1 Institutional Responsibilitiesfor Urban Environmental Management

      At the national level, strategic transport investments are made by the Integrated Bank of Projects under the
      Ministry of Development and Planning (MIDEPLAN). The Ministry of Public Works and Transport
      (MOPTT) i s responsible for public transport roadsof national and regional importance, andthe Ministryo f
      Housing and UrbanDevelopment (MINVU),through its service division SERVIU, for most urban street
      construction and regional land-use development plans. SECTRA, subordinated to MIDEPLAN, and also
      coordinated with MOPTT and MINVU, is the agency responsible for transport planning throughout Chile,
      and hosts the primary role to support transport planning and investment. CONASET, the Traffic Safety
      Commission, is considered to be one o f the most effective traffic safety agency in Latin America. To
      address environmental issues, including traffic generated air pollution, the National Environmental
      Commission (CONAMA) was createdin 1994, reporting directly to the President o f the Republic. While
     MOPTT, MINW, and CONAMA have policy and spending authority for most urban projects, their
      regionally decentralized services (SERVIU, SEREMITT, CONASET                  and CONAMA-Metropolitan
      Region, respectively) are generally the executorsof those projects.

     At the local level, Greater Santiago is divided into 34 districts (commas). Each of them is a relatively
      autonomous government entity with a Mayor and its own departments such as Public Works and Finance.
9    Most districts fund the maintenance and construction of public spaces, including streets, bus stops,
     bikeways and sidewalks, with financial support from national authorities. While they have direct control
      over local land use, subject to SERVIUapproval, most investment decisions concerning the street system
      are taken by SEREMI. Also, an Executive Commission for the implementation o f TRANSANTIAGO
      called Coordinacion General de Transporte en Santiago - CGTS, has been appointed by the President of
      Chile.


     2.2.2     TRANSANTIAGO

      In late 2000, the Government announced its 2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago
      (TRANSANTIAGO), the main goal o f which is to improve the quality o f life in the metropolis and the
      individual neighborhoods andto help in correcting social imbalances. This would be attained through better
     traffic flows, lesser time o f travel, improved air quality from reduced emissions of air pollutants, improved
     access to public transport, and improved mobility. TRANSANTIAGO includes the following programs:
     (1) Public Transport Modernization; (2) Road Investments and Traffic Control; (3) Location of
     Educational Institutions; (4) Promotiono f New Commercial and Service Centers; (5) Change inResidential
     Land-Use Trends; (6) Non-Motorized Transport; (7) Immediate Action Program; (8) Urban Goods
     Transport; (9) Monitoring and Control; (10) Financing; (11) Communications and Citizen's Participation;
     (12) InstitutionalAspects.

.r   TRANSANTIAGO was designed in consultation with the authorities in charge o f handling transport
     related issues, including land-use management and environmental matters (the plan i s consistent with the
     Decontamination Plan for Santiago recently launched by CONAMA, and aims at reducing air and noise
     pollution from mobile and fixed sources o f emissions). TRANSANTIAGO is considered to be a major
     reform plan, expectedto substantially change the city.

     Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago - CGTS. In order to ensure inter-institutional


                                                          -11 -

coordination at the highest level, so that cross-sectoralpolicies and programs inTRANSANTIAGO could
be effectively implemented, the President of Chile appointed this special commission. CGTS is chaired by
the Minister o f Works, Transport and Telecommunications, and includes the Minister o f Housing and
Urban Development, the Sub secretaries of Public Works, Transport and Housing ,the managing director
o f the Metro, the Intendente of the MetropolitanRegion, andthe Executive Director of CONAMA.

Proposed Investments. Amongst the specific investments and actions proposed by TRANSANTIAGO are
(a) the expansion of the metro system     -  about 6 km o f line extensions and a new line o f 32 km, have
already been tendered (b) three new suburban railway services ;(c) a network of 15 segregatedbusways;
(d) the reform of the public bus system (Annex V); (e) a taxi service reform and conversion to CNG
propulsion; (f) USD750 millionprogram to improve the road network; (g) the application o f a Congestion
Pricing policy; (h) the promotion of non-motorized transport; and (i)harmonization of land-use and
transport policies inorder to reduceaveragetrip lengths.

ImmediateAction Program. TRANSANTIAGO contains a program o f immediate actions many of which
have already been implemented, comprising a package of low-cost public transport improvements
operational since March 2001 and fine-tuned inearly 2002:


0        Exclusive public transport axes: From 7:30 to 9AM on eachweekday, seven radial avenues are
now reserved for buses, taxis and emergency vehicles.
0        Parallel avenues operating one-way for private car traffic, to provide the neededadditionaltraffic
capacity taken away from public transport axes.
0        Onthe ten-lane Alameda Bemardo O'Higgins near the city center, six lanes havebeenphysically
segregatedandreservedfull-timefor buses; while only four lanes remainaccessiblefor taxis andprivate
cars.

The immediate action measures o f TRANSANTIAGO have set a very interesting precedent and
demonstrate that air and noise pollution, and traffic congestion can be substantially mitigated with a very
limited budget : a USD 1.5 million package o f public transport priorities has been successful, with travel
time reductions inthe order of 14% to 35% accruing to buspassengerswithout causingundue delays to car
users and bus occupancy rateshaving increasedby 16%, while PMlO concentration went down by 14%.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project will support the implementation of the 2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago
(TRANSANTIAGO), which addresses the main issues affecting transport and mobility in the city.
Transport is the main source o f air pollution, by far the most important environmental problemo f Santiago.
Thus, in order to minimize airborne pollutant emissions and concentrations, the plan includes a set of
measures to promote and favor the use of public transport, and non-motorized transport modes. It also
seeks to coordinate land-use planning with transport planning and to enhance the use o f cleaner fuel and
vehicles. All these measures will have an important effect inmitigatingclimate change, while allowing for a
reduction in travel time. The project will strive to accelerate the introduction of these measures by
concentrating on seven elements or project components, each one contributing to abate GHG emissions
with different degrees o f intensity, and with different implementation time periods. The approach taken by
the project is then to support a multi-sector approach to improve mobility and quality o f life, as opposed to
focusing only on specific transport-only measures. A quantitative analysis will be carried out during the
project, basedon the ASIF methodology and on the use o f local models ESTRAUS and MODEM.




                                                     - 12-

3.1     SupportingPublic TransportReform

A public transport reform took place in the early 1990s, whereby the fleet of buses was regulated,
introducing quality standards for buses regarding age, size, and emission technology . However there are
still many elements that can be corrected in order to achieve an efficient bus system. Today, there i s what i s
called the "war for the penny"; as many operators share the same routes and busways, there is an incentive
for not respecting bus stops. Also, bus routes are long and cross the city from one extreme to the other,
making travel long and relatively expensive, as any change of route implies additional bus fares. The new
system will consist of a trunk network, feeder routes, and transfer stations, which will allow more
cost-effective transport for the users. Also, modal integration will be facilitated, as the metro, buses and
suburban trains will be part of restructuredmass public transport system within integrated fares. Finally, it
is expected that cleaner technologies will be introduced together with the use o f much cleaner fuels which
will be available inthe Metropolitan area o f Santiago starting in2004.

3.2     Rational use of transport

As indicated above, transport demand has increased as a result of economic and population growth.
Relatively high levels of car ownership are also aggravating existing pressures on the road network ,and
generating ever-growing emissions o f both GHG and local air pollutants. Transport use is not always
rational from an environmental and economic point o f view; many trips, in particular car trips, are made
without any planning and with disregard to travel time, contribution to traffic, or pollution. All external
costs, and some internal costs, are absent from the transport decision. One o f TRANSANTIAGO'S goals is
to inform the travel decision maker o f possibilities for reducing time, cost, and pollution; it i s also a
strategic choice of the project i s to internalize those costs. A combination of better planning, diminisheduse
o f expensive car travel, and modal shiR to more efficient and less polluting transport modes will have
important impacts inslowing the growth o f motorizedtravel.


3.3     Inter-agency Coordination

Coordination amongst the agencies dealing with transport and air pollution issues is still incipient. This
stems from the diversity o f sectors and actors involved. Environment and transport planning agencieshave
starteda proactive coordination of policies aimed at common goals and objectives, basically those centered
around the improvement in the quality o f life. TRANSANTIAGO has incorporated the environmental
dimension, and it i s now clear that implementing the plan will bring about health benefits and a less
degraded city. SEE2.1.4

Although there is not a metropolitan authority in charge of developing and implementing air quality
management plans, there are some councils and commissions focused on this type o f inter-agency
coordination. CGTS i s clearly the body with the highest political leverage at the moment, as
TRANSANTIAGO will inevitably produce improvements in air quality. Also, there is the Committee on
City and Landof Santiago, which aims at articulatingpolicies on land-use, transport, and environment.

The project will strive for a more interactive coordination betweenagencies, through the development and
implementation of strategic environmental evaluation and planningtools. Also, through direct support to
CGTS, it will ensure a better coordination o f land-use and transport plans, programs, and projects.




                                                       - 13-

     C. Project Description Summary
     1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailedcostbreakdown):
     (See Annex 2 for detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detail cost breakdown)

     The project will strive to accelerate the implementation of TRANSANTIAGO, by concentrating on 4
     components, each one contributing to abate GHG emissions with different degrees of intensity, and with
     different implementation periods. Preparatory studies under GEF funding (PDF-B) have helped specify the
     activities under certaincomponents.



#    1.1      Promotion of bicycle use

     The objective of this pilot program is to promote the use of bicycles as a mode of transport and aims at
     diverting travelers fiom motorizedmodes, especially private cars, thereby having a direct effect inreducing
     GHGemissions, as less fuel would be burntpertraveledkm.

     The project will include (a) 21.94 km of GEF-funded bikeways connecting the Comunas o f Santiago,
     Providencia, andh i i o a ;(b) 21.2 Kmofbikeways about to be built inthe same Comunaswith government
     funding and 11.6 Km recently built or currently under construction, (c) the implementation of a
    promotional strategy aiming at changing travel behavior to achieve a sustainable modal shift to bicycles;
     (d) a safety strategy to minimize bicycle accidents and to maximize personal security, and (e) a process to
     monitor and evaluate the results o f the pilot program. As the primary aim i s to reduce air pollution and
     GHG emissions, the component targets existing and potential car users - the number of which is rapidly
     increasing with generally favorable economic growth - and thus focuses on zones with relatively highcar
     ownership; this incontrast to similar bikeway programs elsewhere, such as Lima, which primarily address
     the transport needs o f the low-income population. On the other hand, the project will help catalyze future
     investments and raise bicycle use inother parts o fthe city.



     1.2      Modernizing the bus system

     This component will support the development of the new bus system for Santiago, which will not only
     provide a more efficient use of buses (reducing bus fleet, higher bus occupancy, and higher average speed),
     but also will provide an opportunity to renewthe bus fleet both at the city level(through the introductiono f
    provenclean bus technologies), and at the national level. The component is structured in3 sub-components:




                                                         -14-

1.2.1    Technical assistancefor evaluating the economicand environmentalimpact of clean
technologiesfor buses

This sub-component will provide technical assistance to comparetechnical and environmental performance
and associated costs o f hybrid-electric buses with CNG and diesel ones. The project will allow the
economic and environmental evaluation of the potentialintroductiono f the hybriddiesel-electric technology
to Santiago's public bus fleet. As emissions reduction benefits and related costs will be determined,
regulators will have the relevant information needed for the establishment of more stringent emission
standards for Santiago. CGTS i s in the process of allocating the contracts for bus operation along the
major Santiago corridors under a newly restructured public transport system; in this respect, the outcomes
from this project will allow the regulators to determine emission standards requiring operators can be
obliged to have bus fleets with a mixo f conventional andcleaner vehicles.


1.2.2 Implementationframework for bus reform

Inorder to complement the buildingof segregatedbusways, technical assistanceunder this sub-component
will support a review of management and business organization measures that are required to effectively
operate the new corridor infrastructure, including a system o f business organization, the concessions for
specific bus line operations, and the structuring o f integrated fares. It will also fund the formulation of a
program to retrain existing bus drivers that would leave the public transport business, and to assist them in
inserting them in other sectors of the economy.           Moreover, this sub-component will support the
establishment of a framework to monitor the environmental, social and operational effects o f the new
system.


1.2.3 Renewal of the busfleet

The project will finance a strategic study to define ways of synchronizing and coordinating the removal o f
"not-so-old" buses from the streets o f Santiago, which will be displaced by the new articulated EURO I11
buses which will run in the trunk lanes. The study will identifl options for ensuring a national
modernizationo f the bus fleet to rationalize public transport capacity.

1.3     Strategic Environmental Assessment

The project will fund advisory work to ensure coordinationo f sector policies, programs, andprojects (ppp)
dealing with transport, urbandevelopment and land-use, and environment. To that end, the project will help
develop tools for an upstream integration o f environmental management within the scope of the
development o f urban transport plans and policies, including land-use pattern changes, pricing, and tariff
schemes; and will consider options for ensurean adequate institutionalcoordination. Also, considering that
this component will assess the environmental impact of TRANSANTIAGO, andrelated regulations, plans,
and programs, it will be a very important component to prepare and accompany the loan operation, which
will address the plan inits entirety.




                                                    - 15-

      1.4      Technical Assistance and Analytical Support: land-use patterns and internalization
      of costs

      This component will consist of a series of studies and technical assistance oriented to (i)      support the
      coordination of land-use policies and urban transport plans and measures; (ii)evaluate measures to
      improve traffic flows, including traffic calming measures and congestion pricing; (iii) assess the feasibility
      and potential impact o f a pilot program for rationalizing private car use; and (iv) assess opportunities and
      mechanisms for upgrading the recently approved decontamination bonds to account for GHG emission
      reductions.


      1.4.1 Assessment of land-use incentivesandpolicies to reducemotorizedtravel
1)



      This sub-component aims at rationalizing the location of centers of activity, reducing trip lengths,
      improving traffic flows, andpromotingmodal shift. The sub-componentwill be structured in3 activities:

               1.4.1.1 Developing the CentralRing of Santiago (Anillo Central)

      The project will fund studies to calculate the environmental impacts of urban development policies aiming
      at spurring the development of housing projects located on the Anillo Central, based on potential policy
      options. Thus, the study will help decision-makers to better evaluate the development of currently available
      central sites according to the expected impact on transport, air pollutionand global warming.

               1.4.1.2 School Location

      The GEF grant will fund studies to assess the economic and environmental impact of locating new school
      facilities so that the average school related trip length can be reduced. This is key now that the hllschool
      day (Jornada Escolar Completa or JEC) is being established, requiring schools to expand to attend a double
      student load before 2010 nationwide. In addition to this, secondary education was recently made
      compulsory, which furtherincreasedhigher capacity requirements.

               1.4.1.3 Housing Policy
1)


      The project will provide technical assistance to the authorities incharge of housingpolicies and regulations,
      so that the transport and environment dimensions can be better integrated into policy making.
     Recommendations would be aimed at the reduction of the average trip length, and at a modal shift to less
     polluting transport modes.


      1.4.2     ReducingMotorized Trafjc


               1.4.2.1 Traffic Calming at City Center

      This subcomponent consists o f studies to identify soundtraffic calming measures to reduce car traffic in at
     the historic center of Santiago, including a diagnostic phase, a design phase, stakeholder consultation, and
     integrating the need for GHG emission reductions into regulatory measures and the specific engineering
     designs for the civil works.



                                                           - 16-

         1.4.2.2 CongestionPricing

This sub-component aims at reducing and rationalizingthe use o f private motor vehicles, by means of road
or congestion pricing measures which would internalize external costs imposed on society by car drivers.
Pricing would not only help reduce traffic volumes, but could also generate additional sources o f finance
for transport improvements. The grant will funda study to investigate the likely social, environmental and
economic effects of various forms of Congestion Pricing, the conditions under which it is likely to be
acceptable, andthe best mechanism for its implementation.


1.4.3 Travel optimization

The project will support a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility o f implementing a large scale program to
make a rational use of mobility options ( aiming at a reduction o f cars traveled), including the identification
of private entities interested in co-financing andor participating in the implementation of the overall
program; and the implementation of a medium scale pilot phase. The project will draw from the successful
experience o f 1997 carried out by SECTRA in Santiago for a small number of households. The objective i s
to reduce the frequency and time of car travel, basedon the systematic record o f travel needs and practice.
Using transport modes more efficiently according to pre-established travel plans will allow important
reductions infuel use, travel time and emissions.

1.4.4 Decontamination Bonds

The project will fund a study to evaluate options for promoting further local investment in sustainable
transport by integrating GHG emission reductions into the new Decontamination Bonds Program to cap
emissions in Chile. The initial setup will be focused in Santiago, considering that most of the transport
related emissions in the country are generated in the city. This program, currently being established by
CONAMA, will allow emission reductions resulting from sustainable transport measures, to compensate
emissions from existing polluters exceeding the norms, andor from new polluters required to compensate
for adding new emissions into the system. The systemhas been devised to enable NOx and P Mreductions.
GEF incremental support would also help raise the awareness of the opportunities for emission off-set
investments in sustainable transport, and ensure that the program can also take into consideration the
additional green house gas benefits of these investments (provide extra "credit" or incentives for
investments that include additional global benefits). To help the system become operative, the project will
provide technical assistance to assess needs and options for including the transport related greenhouse gas
benefits into the permit clearinghouse; further support for devising methodologies to measuring carbon
reduction benefits inthe transport sector; address aspects o f integrating the transport sector into proposed
financial mechanisms; and studies and awareness raising activities that promote the sustainable transport
market potential. The expected result i s an impact assessment in terms o f potential C02 reductions in the
transport sector, a strategy for building a solid and reliable scheme to identify and pre-validate potential
local CER to be offered inthe international carbon market; the identification o f pilot sustainable transport
projects; and technical assistancesupport for early transport demonstration pilots.




                                                   -  17-

                                                                                                          :;
                                                    Indicative             Bank
         Component                                    costs      %of     financing
                                                     (US$M)      Total    (UStM)
PromotionofBicicle Use                                  4.61        33.0    0.00
Modernizationof BusSystem                               5.05        36.1    0.00                  1.45 1
Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment                       0.44        3.1     0.00                  0.34
TechnicalAssistance andAnalytical Support:              3.41        24.4    0.00                  2.15
land-usepattemsand internalizationof costs
Project Management                                      0.27         1.9    0.00                  0.25
 Contingencies                                          0.20         1.4    0.00                  0.20
                             Total Project Costs       13.98      100.0     0.00                  6.98    100.0
                       Total Financing Required        13.98      100.0     0.00                  6.98    100.0


2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1      Increasing car ownership inSantiago's peculiar climatic situation imposes ever growing challenges
to contain traffic-generated emissions. The recent publication of the new ten-year transport plan
(TRANSANTIAGO) indicates the Government's intent to face those challengesthrough a major public
transport restructuring- and its objectives coincide with those o f GEF. However, the full implementation
of that plan i s by no means certain, inpart because of budget limitations during this period of economic
stagnation, inpart because o f opposition that can be expected from automobile clubs and similar
organizations. The Government has thus welcomed a possible GEF operation for Santiago, knowing that
such a support would give greater impetus to their transport/air quality management strategy, while
creating conditions to reduce GHG emissions.

2.2   The possibility of implementing Congestion Pricing in Santiago has been seriously considered for
more than a decade, and there is a continuing debate on the topic. Institutional and political hurdles have
delayed its implementation, and GEF's participationcould play a pivotal role inhelping decision-makers to
resolve pending issues such as the application and acceptability of Congestion Pricing.           The Chilean
Congress debated the concept in 1991 but, due to fierce opposition, the proposed Law had to be
reformulated in 1994. Eventually, the House o f Deputies approved a Law in 1996, followed by the Senate
in 1997. Unfortunately, the Law is written ina way that makes congestionpricing very delicate to apply,
due to countless restrictions and provisions. Further changes are required in this legislation to enable the
introduction of Congestion Pricing. The project will develop studies (legal, economic, technical) to help
reduce the existingpolitical barriers.

2.3 The new Strategic Environmental Assessment and Planning tools may require formal changes in
procedures with respect to the development o f transport and land-use planning, programs andprojects. The
project will help spur a more coordinated approach to transport management, which involves the
participation of local and national authorities, and which requires a coherent land-use approach. SEA
allows for defining environmental costs associatedto specific programs andpolicies defined at the transport
and housing ministries, aiming at better definingdevelopment alternativesat the upstream level.




                                                     - 18-

     3. Benefitsand target population:
.,   3.1     Target Population

     The major benefits will accrue to the residents of Santiago and people living in the Metropolitan Region
     which are making daily trips to and in the city. All inhabitants             are affected by air pollution.
     Environment-friendly actions will have an effect all over the metropolitan region. The project will help to
     put inplace policies, institutions, and infrastructure to sustain measures to reduce GHG emissions, which
     will haveglobal impact.


     3.2     Benefits

     The major benefits will be the reduction in emissions of local and global pollutants, which translate into
     health improvements for the target population affecting attendance to school, better performance, and
     improved productivity. Also, improved transport conditions, and less congestion offer better quality o f life
     for the Metropolitan area o f Santiago, which will also favor the investment climate. Contribution to the
     reduction of GHGemissions will also have global impact.

     4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
     The project components and sub-components will be implementedby the relevant government authorities,
     under the overall coordinationand supervision of the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago -
     CGTS, with the assistance o f UNDP as the project's procurement and disbursement agency. Thus, for
     each contract, the implementing agencies will participate inthe final elaboration o f Terms of Reference; in
     establishing the criteria for selecting firms or suppliers; indefiningthe short lists; and inthe final selection.
     Also, the implementing agencies will monitor and evaluate implementation o f works and studies. Each
     agency will request CGTS to authorize payments to contractors and suppliers according to physical
     implementation, while CGTS will interact with UNDP and the Bank. Below are the different
     implementation arrangements for each component.


     4.1     Promotion of bicycle use

     The sub-component for buildingbikeways will be implemented by the Commas o f Santiago, hiioa, and
     Providencia, under the general coordination and supervision of CONASET (National Commission on
     Traffic Safety). CONASET will also be in charge o f implementing the other sub-components: (a)
     promotion o f bicycle use; (b) safety for cyclists; (c) supervision o f bikeway construction works; and (d)
     overall pilot project monitoring. The Commas will enter into an agreement with CGTS and CONASET,
     which will be a condition for starting procurement o f works. For all subcomponents, including the
     GEF-fbnded bikeway construction, UNDP will be responsible for the tendering ,contracting and payment
     aspects o f each contract.




                                                          - 19-

4.2      Modernizingthe bus system

The sub-component for the bus technology tests will be implemented by the 3CV ( Ministry of Works and
Transportation Heavy and Light DutyVehicles Testing Facility). Private companies will provide the buses
to be tested, as well as the routes where the tests will be run. 3CV will also coordinate the development of
driving cycles for Santiago, and will oversee the field test development. The sub-components for the
Implementation Framework for Bus Reform and the Fleet Renovation will bothbe directly implementedby
CGTS.


4.3      Strategic Environmental Planning and Assessment

This component will be primarily implemented by the Executive Commission for Transport in
Santiago-CGTS, although an active participation o f SECTRA, the Ministries o f Transport, Housing,
CONAMA, and its local dependencies is also required.


4.4      Technical Assistance and Analytical Support: land-use patterns and internalization
of costs

The implementation of this component will require a varied institutional participation, always under the
overall coordination of CGTS. On the Assessment of land-use incentives and policies to reduce motorized
travel, the sub-components on (a) Development of Anillo Central; and (b) Social Housing will be
implemented by the Ministry of Housing (MINVU); while the sub-component on (c) School Location
sub-component will be led by SECTRA, with close coordination with local municipalities and the Ministry
o f Education. SECTRA will also be in charge of implementing the sub-component on (d) Congestion
Pricing. The sub-component on (e) TrafJic Calming will be implemented by CGTS and will require a close
coordination and participation of the Comuna o f Santiago. For the sub-component on (0 Travel
Optimization, the Regional Secretariat on Telecommunications and Transport f?om the Ministry of
Transport (SEREMITT) will be the implementingbody, although an active participation of public and
private actors is requiredto be able to implement a large scale project. Finally, CONAMA will implement
the sub-component on (g) Decontamination Bonds, with an active participation of market participants
when implemented.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection:



A project to purchasehybridelectric buses andtest them was initially considered. However, the Bank does
not have the policy o f participating in actual bus purchases. On the other hand, being a project to be
implemented by the private sector, it was decided that support for a technically sound test was a better use
of the GEF resources, given that results could be extrapolated to other cities, without actual involvement in
the purchase of new technologies. Once results are available on the different technologies, market oriented
regulations will point to set an adequate mix of technologies to bepresent for the buses.

From the different bus technologies commercially available that could be incorporated into the test, it was



                                                    - 20 -

     decided that only Diesel, CNG and Hybridoptions were to be compared because: a) diesel constitutes the
     baseline (option that would be in place without GEF funding); b) CNG constitutes an option with strong
+   political approval and some field experience; c) hybrid-diesel constitutes a robust option in terms of
     potential reductions inemissionso f greenhousegases. Options discarded included LPG, electrical, and fuel
     cell powered buses due to perceived risks inthe first case, and especially high costs attached to the latter
     technologies.

     The project at its preparation stage considered two options for allocating the grant resources for the
     technological test. One option required upgrading o f local facilities for laboratory testing of heavy duty
     vehicles at the existing laboratory 3CV. In this case, counterpart funding would be required, and a
     permanent capacity to perform this kindof testing would be set available inthe country. The other option,
     on the other hand, was to contract the laboratory tests with third party providers. Based on the preparatory
     studies, and on the declared commitment by the Government of Chile to provide the required counterpart
     investment, it was decided to opt for the first option, as within the same range o f costs as ifcontracted with
     thirdparties, it allows for the development ofa sustainable localcapacity.

     2. Major related projects financed by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
     ongoingandplanned).
                                                                                        LatestSupervision
                                                                                           PSR)      atings
                                                                                   (Bank-finance Drojects only)
                                                                                   Implementation     Development
      Bank-financed                                                                 Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)

      Agriculture, Fishingand Forestry          Secano RuralPoverty                       S                S
                                                Alleviation andNatural
                                                ResourcesManagement Project
      Transportation                            Road Sector Project (03)
      Environment                               EnvironmentalInstitutions                 S               HS
                                                Development Project
      Environment                               SantiagoFoothills Project
      Environment                               Ozone Protection Policy and               S                S
                                                Institutional Strengthening
                                                Project
      Water, Sanitation andFlood Protection Valparaiso Water Supply and                   U                U
                                                SewerageProject (02)
      Transportation                            Urban Streets and Transport
                                                Project (completed)
      Agriculture, Fishingand Forestry          Biodiversity Conservation inthe           S                S
                                                Valdivian Forest Zone Project
      General Transportation, Urban             Santiago's Air Quality and
      Environment, other environment            Transport Project ( Planned)
      Urban Transport and instituional          Bogotdurban servicesproject
      strengthening
      UrbanTransport, sub national              GEF/IBRD/IADB Lima Bus
      government administration                 Transport ( Planned)
      Urban Transport, information              GEF/IBRDMexico's Air
      technology, Health, other Industry       IQuality  Management and
                                                Sustainable Transport Project
                                               I




                                                          -21 -

 Other development agencies
 UNDP                                       GreenHouse gas reduction on
                                            the Energy Sector
 Inter American Development Bank-           Mejillones Terminal 1Project
 IADB

 Inter American Development Bank -          GIS-Applications with
                                            Highways
 IADB

 Inter American Development Bank-           Modemization of Ground
                                            Public Transport o f Santiago
 IADB
                                            HydrologialModeling Study o f
 Inter AmericanDevelopment Bank -           the Concepci6n and SanVicente
 IADB                                       Bays
 German Cooperation Agency-GTZ              Assistance withAir Pollution
                                            Control inSantiago
                                            Conservation ofNatural Forest
 GermanCooperation Agency-GTZ
                                            Regional Planning inthe
 GermanCooperation Agency-GTZ               Coastal Zone of BioBio Region
                                           t
 P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), H (Highly Unsatis

The USD75 million World Bank loan supporting the Urban Streets and Transport Project (1989-1995), in
addition to urban road rehabilitation and maintenance, contributed substantially to the construction o f a
busway and other bus corridor improvements, and also financed studies aimed at reducing congestion and
air pollution, and at improving traffic models and planning tools. The performance of SECTRA, which
was responsible for carrying out the studies, was ratedas highly satisfactory.

The Chile EnvironmentalInstitutionsDevelopment Project, which was carried out between February 1993
and December 1999 and was the first operation for environment in Chile, assisted the Government in
implementing sectoral policies and plans aimed at: (a) establishing the institutional framework to manage
environmental protection and conservation of natural resources, and (b) strengthening environmental
management o f priority sectors (e.g., forestry, mining and industry). Under component A, the project
helped establish environmental and emissions standards (norms) and prepare plans for the decontamination
of highly polluted areas. Between 1996 and the end of 1999, the project helped finance work on 20
national norms, o f which 14 were approved. The principles used to establish norms are some of the most
advaced worldwide (allowing for flexibility in standards based on the carrying capacity of the receiving
bodies), and are beginning to incorporate greater use o f economic instruments (such as in encouraging
offset agreementsfor air pollution).

The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) has approved a $1,250,000 grant from the Multilateral
Investment Fund to support modernization of the surface mass transit system o f the metropolitan area of
Santiago. The resources have been used in developing the concept design and concession schemes for the
restructured public transport system to be implemented under TRANSANTIAGO.

UNDP is currently participating as procurement agent for the GEF Air Quality and Sustainable Transport
Project (PDF-Bphase), and will participate under the secondphase (full size IBRD/GEFproject).




                                                     - 22 -

     The Clean Air Initiative (CAI) for Latin American Cities i s a special initiative spearheaded by the World
     Bank Institute (WBI) and the Latin American and Caribbean region of the World Bank, aimed at
     promoting dissemination of best practice and capacity building on air quality management in Latin
#    American Cities. With a current operating budget for CY2003 of about 0.5 million, the CAI brings
     together the efforts of leaders from the public and private sectors, NGOs, research and academic
     institutions, government agencies and international institutions, which cooperate to improve the capacity o f
     city leaders to address air quality management. The CAI i s proposed as the vehicle for disseminating the
     lessons learned under this innovative project outside Chile and its outreach i s now global as the CAI is
     being expanded to other regions (Asia, ECA, Africa). In Santiago, the CAI provided the opportunity for
     sharing the city's experience inits air pollution decontamination plans among partner cities (Buenos Aires,
     Rio, Mexico City, Lima-Callao), and set the grounds for advancing with the Air Quality and Sustainable
     Transport Project.

    The Ministry o f Finance of Chile officially requested the World Bank in October 2002 to examine in
    coordination with the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago-CGTS the possibility of a World
    Bank loan to support the implementation of TRANSANTIAGO. This initiative led to the inclusion o f
     several design modificationswhich were to be includedunder the final phase of the GEF project.

    The World Bank's BogotL Urban Transport Project financed part o f the new developments intransport o f
    Bogota. This project helped finance the development o f Transmilenio, a rapid bus system using segregated
    bus lanes, a route network with an integrated fare structure andfeeder routes, a modernconcessionscheme,
    and articulated buses. Also, the project hnded part o f the 250 kmbikeways network. These developments
    dramatically changed the city traffic flows, increasing bus and bike use and helping decrease travel times.
    Also, the project has added to the recovery o f public space, safety, improved accessibility, and citizen
    culture development which have become a model to follow inthe region. A secondproject, Bogota's Urban
     Services Project, effective since May 2003, will help further expand Transmilenio and its feeder routes,
    promote the use o f bicycles, strengthenthe local capacity for managing air pollution and improve mobility,
    and improve low income neighborhoods.

    The World Bank i s collaborating with Mexico and Lima through similar GEF interventions through Air
    Quality and Transport projects. In Mexico, the GEF will be financing the development o f sustainable
    transport corridors, where segregated rapid bus systems can be complemented by bikeways and promotion
    of bicycle use. Also, the project will strive to incorporate the global dimension into the local planning
    processes. InLima, a GEF project will be linked to an IRBD/IADBloan to develop similar segregatedbus
    lanes for rapid transit systems according to the model followed in Bogota. The project will have a
    component to promote the use o f bicycles, and a component to help modernize the bus fleet. Finally, as in
    Mexico, GEF funds will be used to develop the framework for developing the bus rapid transit systems
    under the new concession schemes.
    3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:


    The Bank has a long-standing involvement in the sector of air quality management in general, and its
    interrelationship with urban transport inparticular. The first loan inthis regard, approved in 1992, hadthe
    objective of reducing traffic-generated air pollution in Mexico City.          Stemming largely from that
    participation, the Clean Air Initiative inLatin American Cities was set up in 1997, which has been highly
    successhl indisseminating experiences among major cities, including Santiago; similar clean air initiatives
    have now been started in East Europe, Asia and Africa. In addition, recent strategy papers on Pollution
    Management. and Urban Transport. discuss extensively the effects of urban traffic on air quality, and
    urban transport operations in BogotL, Buenos Aires, Lima and SZo Paulo include air quality management


                                                         - 23 -

components intheir design. Some ofthe lessons leamedinclude:


3.1      Air qualitymanagementand urbantransport development involvelong-term issues
that require long-term responses

Changes inpersonal travel behavior -a key element to reduce traffic-generated air pollution- are unlikely
to occur unless there i s a long-term government commitment to sustainable transport.             Similarly,
improvements in air quality require the kind of long-term vision that has been spelled out in Mexico City
with the publication of the Air Quality Management Plan for 2002-2010. The proposed project would
support similar long-range plans that have already been formulated in Santiago for transport and air
pollution.


3.2      Planning for the long term, however, requires flexibility

Experience in Mexico City has shown that, despite the best planning efforts in the preparatory stage, the
need for adjustments in air quality activities becomes evident only during the implementation of the plan.
Similarly, the Implementation Completion Report for the Bogoth Urban Transport Project states that
"flexibility should be encouraged in some subcomponents, procedures or new technology areas. This
occurred in the case of the Transmilenio components where adaptations had to be made in various areas
(platforms, bike paths, bridges, surfacing materials, etc, and with very satisfactory results". Therefore,
while eachcomponent of the proposedproject has beendefined inconsiderable detail, there should be room
for modifications during its implementation.


3.3      The Bank's involvement should support an overall Government strategy

This applies to most World Bank operations. The more successfulurbantransport and air qualityprojects,
such as the one in BogotA - and indeed the Chile Urban Streets and Transport project - confirm this
maxim. The proposed GEF project would fully support the objectives o f Santiago's air quality strategy
and TRANSANTIAGOby testing key elements o fthe existing government policies.


3.4      Community Participation is Vital For Success

The PAD for the recently approved GEF grant to support the introduction of climate friendly measures in
transport of Mexico City stresses that a "participatory approach, incorporating public opinion in the
project, is required to establish legitimacy o f the project". Similarly, the Bogotd experience demonstrates
the importance of community involvement which contributed to the public acceptance, even pride, for
several "project outputs, notably TransMilenio and the bike paths". The proposed project - especially the
components aiming at increase bicycle use - was prepared in close consultation with civil society, NGOs
and district governments; this collaboration would continue duringproject implementation.




                                                     - 24 -

     3.5      M o r e construction of bikeways does not ensure the increased use of bicycles

     In 1996, about 46 kmof Bank-financed bikeways were successfully implemented inLima, connecting an
     industrial area with low-income residential zones. However, the number of cyclists did not increase
      significantly, as the project did not include a coherent strategy to overcome the cultural barriers inhibiting
     bicycle use. Even inBogota, where over 200 km of bikeways were built inthe last four years, the growth
     in cycling has been modest, and the Government intends to implement - under the recently approved
     Bank-financed project -a promotional strategy to raise bicycle use. Therefore, an important component of
     the proposed project would initiate the process of cultural change through a multi-pronged promotional
     strategy aimedat making bicycle use more attractive inthe minds o fthe population.

     4. Indicationsof borrower andrecipientcommitmentandownership:
     This project is basically supporting an existing plan, TRANSANTIAGO that not only is a priority for the
     Government of Chile (as manifested in the creation o f the national Office for Coordinating the
     Implementation o f TRANSANTIAGO) but also has a clear support by the local Comunas and local
     governmental agencies. Basedon the implementation o f the PDF-B Grant : "Sustainable Transport and Air
     Quality", National and local authorities have requestedthe Bankto advance with the project proposal to be
     submitted to the GEF Council. There has been a recent invitation to the Bank to allocate resources for a
     potential loan to support the new public transport system implementation. A further update on the progress
     o fthis loan, would beprovided at the time o f CEO endorsement.

     5. Value addedof BankandGlobalsupportinthis project:

r.   The World Bank has a long and proven world wide experience and technical skills related to the
     implementation o f transport, urbandevelopment, and environmental projects. Its presenceat the sector level
     invarious countries intransport, water, energy, health, and environment oriented projectsprovide aunique
      cross-referencedperspective which allows to replicate good experiences, while learning from experience.

     Further, the Bank offers advantages in terms of funding leverage. Not only a loan operation i s being
     prepared to support TRANSANTIAGO, but also it could be potentially complemented with other services
     available to support the participation from the private sector, such as the IFC products. Besides,
     TRANSANTIAGO offers opportunities for funding under the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF). Not only
      Santiago has good quantitative tools in place to help measure potential impacts of transport projects in
      terms of GHG emissions reduced, but also, the Government commitment i s very high and long-term.
      Potential PCF projects could be developed for (a) a light train, where measurablepublic transport demand
     would be transferred from other more polluting modes (buses and private cars); and (b) a scheme for
     promoting ESCO-like maintenanceand servicing programs that could ensurereduced fuel use andtherefore
     reduced GHGemissions that could be sold at the carbon market.


      E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
      1. Economic(see Annex 4):
    0 Costbenefit           NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
r.  0 Costeffectiveness
         Incremental Cost
    0 Other(speci@)



                                                          - 25 -

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

Counterpart funding i s being provided to implement various components, namely, the building of bicycle
pathways, travel optimization, and the field testing of bus technologies. Without this counterpart funding,
the project will not be able to start. Therefore, besides ensuring the right allocation of resources, it will be
necessary to coordinate its timeline with govemment allocation cycles, so that the project may start as
planned without delays.




Fiscal Impact:



3. Technical:

The new Bus System needs to be inplace (routes, fiequencies, and conditions for operation defined if not
tendered) to implement the field tests effectively, under real conditions. Also, the quality of diesel for the
tests will have to be compatible with the new specifications of sulfur content projected for 2004 (50
p.p.m.); ifnot already available, it will be necessaryto ensure its provision duringprojectimplementation.

The tests will build on the experiences o f similar operations in New York City and Mexico City. It is
therefore important that the tests are robust fiom a technical stand point, as their result will be used widely
at both local and international levels to promote or justify investments, policies and programs. To that end
a study has been commissioned as part o f the on-going preparationprocessto devise the testing protocols.

Modeling will be important. It will not only allow the simulation of results, but will strengthen the
institutional capacity for planningand monitoring of policies, programs and projects related to sustainable
urbantransport.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:
The project components will be implemented by the relevant government authorities, under the overall
coordination and supervision of the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago - CGTS, with the
assistance o f UNDP as the project's procurement and disbursement agency. CGTS i s the Executive
Secretary for the Committee of Ministers created for the implementation of TRANSANTLAGO. The
committee is presided by the Minister o f Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications; its Vice
President is the Minister of Housing; and the other permanent members are the Executive Director of
CONAMA; the ManagingDirector of METRO; the Under Secretary o f Transport; the Executive Director
o f SECTRA; the Intendente o f the Metropolitan Region (Governor); and the Head o f Concessions o f the
Ministry of Works. CGTS will instruct UNDP, which will act as procurement and disbursement agent.
GCTS inturnwill follow the recommendationso fthe different implementing agencies for each component,
as explained in Section C.4 o f this document. The Promotion o f Bicycle Use Component will be
implemented andcoordinated by CONASET, with the exception of the construction of bikeways which will
be responsibility of the local municipalities (Comunas), under the coordination of CONASET. The Field



                                                    - 26 -

Test on bus technologies will be implemented by 3CV. The sub-component on Traffic Calming measures
for the Historic Center o f Santiago will be directly implemented by CGTS but will require a close
intervention of the Comuna of Santiago. CGTS will also directly implement the subcomponents on the
Implementation Framework for Bus Reform and Bus Fleet Renewal; and the Strategic Environmental
Assessment. The School Location, and Congestion Pricing sub-componentswill be led by SECTRA. The
Decontamination Bonds sub-componentwill be implemented by CONAMA. The other sub-components on
Land-use incentives (Housing and Anillo Central) will be led by the Ministry on Housing. Finally,
SEREMITTwill be inchargeofthe sub-componenton Travel Optimization.


4.2 Project management:


The project will be managed by CGTS, which will host a Project Coordinating Unit to be created, mostly
staffed by CGTS plus a Procurement Specialist, who will also monitor the project accounts managed by
UNDP. It i s expected that the office will be sustainable and have budget during the time of project
implementation.

Manual o f Operations: The functions and responsibilities of the project managementwould be governed by
the Manual o f Operations (MOP), which would include, among other aspects, a full description o f project
activities, and project procedures, financial guidelines, criteria for selecting consultants, staffing, and
assignment of staffresponsibilities, project supervision, flow of funds, special account, budgeting, auditing,
reporting, as well as procurement and disbursement procedures. MOP will be a condition o f Grant
Effectiveness. Also, the MOP will include the safeguard requirements for the construction bikeways,
including guidelines for issuinga resettlement framework and devising a resettlement plan, incase there are
any involuntary resettlementsrelatedto the bikeways to be constructed.


4.3 Procurement issues:
UNDP will act as procurement and disbursement agent, following the Bank's rules and procedures. A
procurement specialist to be appointed by and located in CGTS will be directly responsible for
coordinating the production o f project's procurement documents the contract processing with UNDP and
the implementing agencies. A Cost-Sharing Agreement will be signed between UNDP and the Ministry of
Transport (from which CGTS depends), and will be framed within the Grant Agreement signedbetween the
Government of Chile and the Bank. The Cost Sharing Agreement will include the Standard Annex agreed
between the Bank and UNDP, which governs this type o f arrangements. UNDP already acted as
procurement and disbursement agent for the implementation of the GEF's PDF-b resources. Considering
that UNDP has a broad experience with project implementation and procurement, although not specifically
Bank procurement, the capacity assessment performed by the Bank's Procurement Specialist indicated that
the procurement risk is AVERAGE, andproposedthe following procedures for prior review: (a) all TORS
for consultants; (b) the first 2 contracts with consultant firms and all contracts over USD350,OOO; (c) all
international bidding; the first nationalbidding; and the first shopping process.


4.4 Financialmanagementissues:


The project components will be technically executed by the respective implementing units, with oversight
by the CGTS. The financial management of the project will remain in CGTS, while UNDP will be in
charge of contracting and disbursement. Implementation of the project will be guided by the Project
Operational Manual (MOP), the Financial Management manual and a detailed procurement plan. The


                                                    - 27 -

implementing units will provide regularly scheduledprogress reports to the CGTS. The CGTS, inturn, will
report project progress on a semi annual basis to the Bank, according to agreed Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMR) format.

CGTS will be responsible for the financial management of the project (including accounting, timely
submission of the Financial Management Reports -FMRs, annual audits and disbursements), assisted by
UNDP.

GEF Fundswill be transferred inadvanceto anUNDP project accountthat will act as a Special Account
for the project and will be managedaccording to FinancialManagement manual. Thejustification on the
use o f funds andrequestfor disbursementswill be made at least quarterly. The project will be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptableto the Bank. Audit reports will be submittedto the Bank
underacceptableTerms ofReference(TOR) for a single audit opinion, nolater than six months after the
end o f each fiscal year. Another accountantwill be appointed at CGTS for supporting the increaseon
administrative operations due to this project
5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation anddisclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.


The project will involve the construction of 22 kmofbikeways which will connect with existing and soonto
be.built municipal bikeways. No significant adverse environmental impacts of the project are expected, as
project activity will be taking place in urban areas with considerable development and human activity.
Environmental activities during construction will be limited and may include: (i)  interruptions to vehicular
and pedestrian traffic; (ii)noise; (iii) on safety o f roadusers; (iv) limitation of access to dwellings
                                      impacts
or businesses. To mitigate these impacts, the project will follow environmental guidelines for construction
prepared by CONAMA RM and SERVIU. No resettlement o f persons as a result of the project is
envisaged. However, if involuntary resettlements are needed by the time of construction, the works would
be conditionedto the issuanceof an appropriate resettlement framework and a specific resettlementplan.

The bikeway designs will be subject to an independent safety audit, and the construction contract will
involve an environmental assessment and management plan. As to the rest of the project, there will be
environmental benefits. The field test will take place on operating routes. The rest will be studies with
indirect benefits inthe future.



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?


The project is a category "c".Special attention will be given to the construction of 22 KMo f Bikeways,
which are not expectedto raise any major environmental issues. The project will have an Environmental
Management Planwhich will include: The environmental specifications, rules, and guidelines for
contractors, including construction waste disposal, an assessment of compliance of all proposed works with
existingnationallegislation; and measures addressingmotorcyclist andpedestrians. Onthe institutional
component CGTS, through its Environmental Unit will be incharge of coordinating with CONAMA-RM
the implementation o fthe environmental policies onthe development o f TRANSANTIAGO. Besides
complying with the Bank's rules, CGTS will have to comply with those o f CONAMA, which has a very
strong environmental managementcompliance program.



                                                    - 28 -

     5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                           Date of receipt o f final draft: N/A

*    5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draft EA
     report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
     o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?


     SeveralNGO's in Santiago havebeen consulted duringthe preparation phase, also communities will be
     involved inawareness raisingprograms. See section 6.2 below.


     5.5 What mechanismshave beenestablishedto monitor and evaluatethe impact o fthe project on the
     environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
     Yes, for the bus field test, a comparison of emissions and environmental impact will be performedin order
     to determine the most cost-effective technology to be used in Santiago's public transport system. For the
     construction of the bikeways, the EMP will have monitorable indicators to ensure mitigation of
     environmental impact. As per the other components, there will be a modeling o f baseline and different
    project scenariosto measurethe long-term impact o f the project.


     6. Social:
     6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
     development outcomes.

*    The project will implement a communication strategy to promote the use of bicycles, and public transport.
     Community participationwill play a key role intriggeringcultural change with regards to the increaseduse
     o f non-motorized and public transport, a rational use o f cars, and with regards to land-use measures such
     as densifling the Anillo Central. Also, the new school zones needto be informedofpublic preferencesto be
     effective inachieving transport objectives.

    Active participationand community involvement is a key issue for the success o f TRANSANTIAGO and
     o f the project. Not only do some of the components rely on participation, but also, inorder to really effect
     change inthe long term, the project requires cultural and behavioral changes, which can only be induced by
     meanso f effective communication strategies and participationplans.



     6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?
    Duringthe development of TRANSANTIAGO, public participation has become a very relevant issue for
    the authorities in Chile. On the formulation process o f TRANSANTIAGO and the GEF project, duringits
    PDF-B preparatory phase, several NGOs and interested parties have been involved inthe decision making
    process, through meetings, written comments in a public website, and two participatory workshops. The
     following stakeholders have actively participated inthe preparation process: central government authorities
     (Ministries o f Housing, Public Works and Transport, SECTRA, Metropolitan Region Governor
*    (Intendente), CONAMA, CONASET and SERVIU); local authorities (representatives from the Commas
    o f Santiago, hiioa, and Providencia); universities; multilateral organizations (UNDP andECLAC), NGOs
    (Ciudad Viva, Movimiento Ciclistas Furiosos, Arriba'E la Chancha, etc); and bus operators and
    associations.


                                                            - 29 -

TRANSANTIAGO has a strong strategy for ensuring stakeholder participation at the community level.
The following are its elements:

e        Work with community organizationsat the neighborhood level on the design ofthe new system
(reach of trunk and feeder services, design and security of bus stop places, interior layout of new buses,
type and conditions o fnight services, informationneeds, etc) and to monitor advance at different stages.
e        To incorporate key specific actors (i.e. university studentsand the like) into specific tasks at the
different stages o fthe modernization process(Le. information to users at some critical moments of the
process, continued monitoring ofperformance of the new system, etc).
e        To buildregular links and contacts betweenthe community, the public transport operators and the
municipalities.
e        To make available a web page for information exchange and suggestionsgathering (m.sectra.cl)
e        To make available a special telephone line for consultations and suggestions.


The current strategy i s to identify the parties' involvement and their attitude to participate in the process.
For every party involved inthis processa planwill be designedand their recommendationswill be taken in
to account. Also there i s a permanent website where the parties can have access to the development of the
project. Duringthe GEF-PDF-B project preparation, this tool has been heavily used as a communication
tool.

For more details, refer to Annex 11-Participatory Plan
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration withNGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations will continue to participate in the project through an
implementation plan, which i s based on the requirements o f several interested parties who have been
involved inthe development of the project since the formulation o f TRANSANTIAGO. This plan, aims at
the integration of severalNGOs as well as groups directly involved inthe design and implementation o f the
PDF-B grant.


6.4 What institutionalarrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
developmentoutcomes?


The creation of CGTS demonstrates the need for a permanent metropolitan authority for Santiago, to
ensure coordination amongst stakeholders, and especially between governmental agencies. Therefore, the
implementation of TRANSANTIAGO will be handled by CGTS untilthe new official body is created. All
sector agenciesare expectedto remain performing as such, but CGTS will coordinate the policiesto ensure
consistencywith TRANSANTIAGO.

A Working Group will be set upto ensure anadequate flow ofinformationand communication fiom andto
the bus operators, in particular with relation to worker rights and conditions within the new public
transport system. Another permanent working panel will be constituted, with the participation of mayors,
heads of the transport and public works departments, head o f the District Secretary o f Planning, and other
local officials. Similarly, a permanent Consultative Body will be createdto deal with NGOs, both to inform
them and to affect the design phases of specific measures to implement TRANSANTIAGO.



                                                     - 30 -

6.5 How will the project monitorperformance interms of social development outcomes?
Indicators have been provided in section A o f this document, and in Annex I.    Measurements will involve
surveys, field data gathering exercisesregularly undertaken by SECTRA, plus the activities foreseenunder
the project components, andthe use of existing modeling andair quality monitoring capacities.


7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisionsmadeby the project to ensurecompliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.


The environmental analysis provided a Category "C" for the project, only requiring environmental
guidelines for the development and construction o f 21.94 kmo fBikeways.



F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
Much of the project is intended to remove barriers that prevent the pursued measures to take place in the
first place, and thereafter to become sustainable. Most components depend on behavioral changes which
will triggered by the project. Financial sustainability will depend inmost cases on those changes, and only
the component onbicycles directly involvesinfrastructure development.


Bicycle use

Increasedbicycle use is already part of Santiago's statedtransport objectives. Inview of the strong support
by Government and civil society, this component is likely to sustain itself after completion o f the GEF
project. It is also expected that the non-motorized transport component would have a positive
demonstration effect which would (a) strengthen political support for TRANSANTIAGO'S bikeway
program, (b) provide incentives for District Mayors to initiate similar programs and (c) in combination
with the travel optimization concept mentioned above, contribute to an overall modal shift which could be
replicated in other cities. Inaddition, it i s hoped that a positive outcome of this subproject will convince
the Metro managementto provide bicycle parking facilities at more rail rapidtransit stations.

Bikeways will be maintained by the Comunas, as they not only serve the purpose o f facilitating


                                                     -31  -

     non-motorized transport but also of enhancing public space. Its use, though, will depend on cultural
     changes to be effected by the project. The Comunas have already formally committed to invest in the
     bikeways that make part of the GEF co-funded network.




     Modernizing the bus system

     Sustainability is one of the key elements with regards to the gradual change in bus technologies. As the
     routes are to be allocated for a relatively long periodof time, the initial technological upgrade i s guaranteed
     to last. In addition, the construction and use o f segregated bus lanes, operated with large articulated buses
     running on clean technologies is a gradual process expected to expand over time until the main routes
     network gets rationalized and modernized; this means a sustained and growing potential demand for clean
     technologies. Besides, CONAMA is considering the introductiono f a subsidies plan that would add a larger
     boost for the introduction o f clean technologies to the city. Moreover, as the technologies become more
#    commercially available, and production lines get maximized at the suppliers' end, investment and
     maintenance costs (batteries) for operators are expected to decrease over time. The concept o f linking
     emission performance to routes concessions has a highpotential for replicability in other Latin American
     cities such as Bogoth, Mexico, Sao Paul0 and Lima. Emissionreduction results will be key to promote the
     replicationscheme through the Bank's Clean Air Initiative, and directly through on-going Bankoperations.

     Inthis case, the studies aimat promotingthe modernization o the bus fleet. The laboratory at 3CV will be
     upgraded, and both co-funding and future maintenancewill come from the government. Once the project i s
     completed, there will be local capacity able to perform similar tests (including laboratory) for any other
     heavy-duty vehicles available inthe future. All other elements are not dependent on financial support, but
     on stakeholder conduct. Bus owners will be induced to renovate their fleet based on the development of
     standards, and on the removal o f risk barriers. Since not all routes and services are to be concessioned
     immediately, the project will provide for informing the biddingprocesses taking place from 2005 onwards.
     Since this is a test, the results will need to determine whether more stringent regulation on fleet emissions
     can be developed.

     The study on options for modernizing the bus fleet in Chile i s aimed at informing decision makers on
     options available, and on impacts and related costs. The expected follow-up i s the development o f policies
     and programs to incentivate the fleet renewal. The study to support the framework for the new bus system,
     will be followed by programs for drivers and bus owners reinsertion to productive activities; lines o f credit,
     andm h e r trainingare some ofthe options already envisioned.




                                                          - 32-

      Land-use incentives

     Land-use pattern change i s a long term process that i s likewise expected to last. The team believes that
      localization o f additional housing and services can be oriented towards certain goals but i s also conscious
.`    that this process obviously takes time. The expected benefits to be reaped from this component will need
      time to materialize and the relevant time-scale is to be measuredinyears, if not indecades. The other side
      of that coin is that once the urban pattem i s consolidated, and once development has materialized along
      certain corridors or areas that are propitious to sustainable transport behaviors, this cannot change
      overnight and these transport behaviors can reasonably be expected to be long-lasting, and to yield
     important benefits. The question is then to make sure that the same guidelines regarding land-use will be
      followed after the GEF grant closes. This will dependto a great extent on the success and attractivenesso f
     the real estate developmentsprojects to be designedunder the GEF grant andthis is why a lot of emphasis
     will be put on public outreach and on the quality of the design of these projects. The involvement of
      students from the Catholic University and from MIT should generate appealing and innovative proposals
      from an urban landscaping perspective, which will obviously increase the likelihood of success o f these
     environment-friendly real estate development project(s), even more so since the mandate of these
     universities is to design projects that fits into an overallprogramof urban sustainability.

     Here, the project will undertake studies that are expectedto affect land-usepolicies. Financial sustainability
      i s not a direct issue at this stage. Once the real estate options get developed, the market is expected to
      sustainthe component.


     Reducing Motorized Traffic

      Congestion Pricing. In this case, sustainability will depend on the design o f the pricing schemes, once
     they become feasible from a legal and political perspective. The project is contributing to remove those
     barriers; financial sustainability is directly linked to the particular design o f Congestion Pricing scheme
     being developed. As London's recent experience shows, financial sustainability i s not an issue. Traf$c
     calming. Here, maintenance will be carried out by the Comuna of Santiago involved, as this type of
     measures i s linkedto the municipality's own public space development.




                                                            - 33 -

Travel Optimization

This sub-component requires a behavioral change that i s theoretically triggered by self-interest, since
participants are not forced into changing their behavior by decrees or laws, or not even induced to do so
through incentives which may not be sustainable over time. Participants are expected to change their way
of traveling through being provided with a more accurate and comprehensive information about available
transport alternatives, that may greatly differ from their current perception which may be incomplete. If,as
expected, participants reap sizable benefits, in time and/or money savings, from these changes, the
sustainability o fthe concept can be taken for granted. The consultantsincharge o f the program will needto
identify for each participating entity or household attractive alternative modes o f travel, a d o r alternative
destinations easier to reach by clean modes and that deliver the same services as the current ones. Then,
when informed about this wider array o f choices regarding travel modes and destinations, the members of
the participating households should adapt their travel behavior to this new information and adopt new
transport-related strategies, that, for being more attractive, will be sustainable. As with the other
components, once results are attained and published, replicability will be pursued in other Latin American
cities mainly through the Clean Air Initiative. Financial sustainability is directly linked to the cultural
change inducedinthe participants, and on the ability of the project to foster replicability.


Decontamination Bonds

As with the Congestion Pricing, financial viability and sustainability strongly depends on the design. How
well demand and supply can be matchedwill inject sustainableliquidityto the market.

la. Replicability:


The project will include workshops to enable debate in some of the components and to facilitate
participation from stakeholders. Also, the project will have a launching workshop, and a workshop at the
end to disseminateresults.

The impact of TRANSANTIAGO is expected to be felt beyond Santiago's boundaries, so that similar
projects can be developedinother cities of the region. As inthe case of Colombiawhere the implementation
o f Transmilenio has created a wave of new projects aimed at restructuring public transport, it is expected
that this type o f projects will spur subsequent operations dealing with transport and environment, while
helpingmitigate climate change.

Components and sub-components such as the promotion o f the use o f bicycles; promotion o f cleaner bus
technologies and fleet renewal; traffic calming at historic and congested areas; strategic environmental
planning; and land-usepolicies linkedto transport objectives all have elements that make them replicable in
other cities where cars are rising as a function o f economic growth and urban sprawl, while public
transport tends to be chaotic and insufficient.       Methodologies for developing this type of project
components, as well as for measuring impacts and monitoring implementation can be easily replicated or
adaptedto a different socio economical and infrastructure setting. This has already been recognized, inthe
transport restructuring plans in Santiago and Bogota, which have sharedelements with each other. Lima is
certainly learning from the Bogota experience with bike routes, while Santiago is considering lessons
learned from both cities. As long as there are measurements and records o f costs, benefits, and
implementation steps, all these experiencesbecome replicable.




                                                    - 34 -

      2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):

      Promotion of Bicycle Use

      The Government and several citizen's groups have been calling for a cultural change in travel behavior,
      with the shift from car use to non-motorized transport being one of the objectives. TRANSANTIAGO
      calls for the construction o f 1,000 km o f bikeways, and individual Comunas such as Providencia and
      Rufioa are carrying out their own municipal bikeway programs. However, financing of the ambitious
      TRANSANTIAGO bikeway program is not assured, and SECTRA officials indicated that a relatively
      small GEF-supported bicycle promotion subproject would give the overall program a much-needed
      impetus.    Moreover, this subproject would place special emphasis on promotional campaigns, in
      collaboration with NGOs and the private sector - a dimension that has not yet been much developed in
      TRANSANTIAGO.

      While the proposed subproject can count on the full support of the Government and NGOs, it i s by no
      means certain that the number of cyclists would increase rapidly enough for this concept to be perceived
      successful. There is certainly great risk attached to the subcomponent on promotion, as the best possible
      campaign i s no guarantee of increased demand for bike travel. Besides, there are few experiences in the
      developing world about promotion o f a modal shift to bicycles. Therefore, the strategy will consist of a
      close monitoring, so that any required changes in the political approach can be modified soon enough to
      ensure the best use of GEF resources. A similar pilot project in Lima, implemented in 1997 under the
      Bank-supported Peru Transport RehabilitationProject, resultedina moderate increaseinbicycle usage, but
      the bikeways built under that project are still not frequented enough to convince many motorists that
      bikeways are a wise use of scarce road space. Learning from that experience, the proposed Santiago
      subproject would put special emphasis on the promotion and monitoring aspects, and concentrate its
      bikeway investments in high-density corridors which could generate relatively high (and thus visible)
rr    bicycle volumes. Also, the quality of the bikeways will be higher incomparison to the Lima's experience;
      the example of Bogota, where substantial increase in the use of bicycles is evident, shows that a good
      quality infrastructure brings safety and status, helping attract new users. Also a well designed urban space
      near the bikeways will set the conditions to facilitate modalchange.


      Congestion Pricing

      The fact that congestion pricing is explicitly included inthe list of priorities that have to be pushedforward
      inthe framework ofTRANSANTIAGO - 2000-2006 shows awill, bothat the technical andpoliticallevel,
      to promote the concept. In addition, the endorsement o f international institutions such as the GEF and the
     WB should give a boost to the issue and help the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago -
      CGTS to convince the various stakeholders of the soundness of Congestion Pricing inthe case of Santiago
      and have a positive impact on the media and therefore on the public opinion.                 It is therefore not
      unreasonable to consider that the context has changed since the last time the legislation referring to
      Congestion Pricingwas discussedinParliament.




                                                             - 35 -

Restructuringof BusSystem

The main component of TRANSANTIAGO will be the restructuring o f the bus system, but this may
encounter opposition along its implementation. A strike by the bus owner associations has already taken
place, and although it was successfully managed by the Government, and helped showing the strong
Government commitment to TRANSANTIAGO, it also evidenced the risks involved in this kind of
endeavor. Also, since the city of Santiago is divided into 38 municipal governments, which belong to
different political parties, there is substantialpolitical risk attachedto the plan implementation. To mitigate
these risks, the Government i s negotiating with the opposition which controls a significant share o f the
municipalities in the metropolitan region, and is incorporating the bus owner views into the design o f the
new bus system. Similarly, surveys and participation from all other stakeholders, in particular the bus
users, will ensure popular acceptance and backingfor the new developments.

                                                  Risk Rating        I            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputsto Objective
 1. Interest inbikingas transport mode                  M             The comunas of Providencia, Nuiioa and
                                                                      Santiagohave issuedletters confirming
Not sufficient budget for buildingand                                 Commitment. Also there has been a broad
maintainingbikeways inparticipating                                   participatoryprocessduringthe design and
comunas (Santiago, Ruiioa, and                                        formulation of the bike ways .
Providencia)
                                                                      A study was conductedto develop a three years
Low stakeholder collaboration                                         strategy for promoting the use o fbicycle. Its
                                                                      implementation will help not only raise
                                                                      awareness but also will induce modal change, as
                                                                      soon as bikeways become available..



2. Lack o fnecessarytesting equipment                   M             Key stakeholdershave committedthemselvesto
available                                                             the bustest. There is a strong commitment from
                                                                      the Government, which has approved budget for
                                                                      upgradingthe laboratory equipment at 3CV.

                                                                      Letters o f commitment will be requested; also,
Availability o fbuses to be testednot                                 contracts will be signed for the use o fthe buses
guaranteed                                                            before disbursementstake place

Willingness o fbus operators to participate
 infieldtests mayfade


 3. Behavioralchanges may not be                         S            Private sector should get involved on the
 sustainable over the long term with                                  implementation ofthis sub-component. Previous
respectto travel optimization                                         work has beendone inChile and there is interest
                                                                      by the former actors to participate at this stage

 Public acceptanceuncertain
                                                         S            Inthepastthere hasbeenopposition to the


                                                       - 36 -

4. Political opposition to Congestion                             concept of congestion pricing. Howeverwith the
Pricing                                                           new roadsbeingbuiltunder concessionandtoll
                                                                  schemes, the public may get more receptive. The
                                                                  project will focus into studies and activities to
                                                                  promote the removal o f these perception
                                                                  barriers.




From Componentsto Outputs
5. Counterpart fhding not effective                  M            There i s a strong commitment from the comunas
                                                                  of Santiago, Nuiioa andProvidencia, which will
                                                                  bereinstatedvia letters o fcommitment and
                                                                  meetingwithmayors. Also the concessionaireof
                                                                  CostaneraNorte roadupgradingis involvedon
                                                                  the expansion o fthe bikeways; a letter of
                                                                  commitment will be requested.
6. Coordination of executing agenciesmaj             M            TRANSANTIAGO i s an array o fpolicies and
become difficult for project                                      measures aimedat improvingtransport,
implementation                                                    environmental conditions, andultimately quality
                                                                  of life. The plan has beenenvisagedas a
                                                                  multi-sector plan, where the aggregate impact of
                                                                  different measures under the same objectives
                                                                  may produce the desired outcomes. It i s
                                                                  anticipated that some of these measures will
                                                                  take longer to implement, and some may not
                                                                  materialize.
Overall Risk Rating                                  M
tisk Rating - H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRis ,M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversial Aspects:
No Potential controversial issues have beenidentified for the project

G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
To be effective ,the following conditions will have to be met:


0       Operational Manualpreparedandacceptableto the Bank;
0       ProcurementInformation Systeminstalled and acceptable to the Bank;
0       Appointment o f ProcurementSpecialist at CGTS; and
0       Signature of Cost-SharingAgreement betweenUNDP, Ministry of Foreign Relations, and
MinistryofWorks, Transport, andTelecommunications.


                                                    -37 -

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]



H. Readiness for Implementation
[XI 1.a) The engineering design documentsfor the first year's activities are complete andready for the start
         o fproject implementation.
4 1. b) Not applicable.

IXI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
17 3. The Project ImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
[XI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunderloan conditions (Section G):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
IxI1. Thisproject complies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommendedfor approval. The project complies with
       all other applicable Bank policies.




Juan Lopez-Silva                          JohnRedwood                             Axel van Trotsenburg
Team Leader                               Sector Director                         Country ManagerlDirector




                                                   - 38 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                   CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)
                                   Key Performance            Data CollectionStrategy
  Hierarchyof Objectives                 Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:            Sector1country reports:     from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote Sustainable            ncreasedwell being o fpeople CAS ,ESW, survey, sector     'olitical acceptance
Development                    nSantiago                     report and updates


 Improve quality o f life      mproved        air     quality                            dacroeconomic Stability
                               neasured      by     reduced
                               :oncentration     o f  target
                               ,011utants


GEF Operational Program:       lutcome IImpact
                               ndicators:
Promoting environmentally                                    GHG emissions inventory     ,ong term commitment to
sustainable transport           0 Improvedsustainability o f                             )romoting reductions inGHG
Specific objective: reduce        the transport sector       Transport Plan and Reports  :missions relatedto transport
GHGemissions from urban
and surface transport sources
inrecipientcountries by         0 Reductions inGHG
facilitating recipient            emission associatedto
countries' commitment to          modal shift
adopt sustainable low-GHG
transport measures, and         0 Reduced carbonintensity
disengagement from                o f trips
unsustainable measures
common inmanyparts of the
world.




Global Objective:              lutcome IImpact               Project reports:            from Objective to Goal)
                               ndicators:
Reduce the GHG emissions        0 UrbanTransport Planfor Government agencies reports:    ,ong term government
from ground transport in          Santiago implemented:                                  :ommitment to implement the
Santiago through a promotion    0 Modal share o fpublic      Government agencies reports neasures inPTUS 2000-2010
o f a long-term modal shift to    transport maintained
more efficient and less         0 Land-usepolicies inplace Bank supervision reports      'rivate sector interest in
polluting forms oftransport.      to favor reduction inavg                               tdopting cleaner technologies
The project will support the      trip length                Mid-termevaluation
implementation o fthe           0 Barriers for introducing                               'ublic acceptance o f higher
2000-2010UrbanTransport           clean technologies for     Completion Reports          :osts attached to car use
Plan for Santiago -PTUS.          transport removed (
                                  technological ,financial , Public opinion surveys      zooperation between
                                  regulatory).                                           itakeholders for integrated
                                0 Bicycle Trips increased in                             ransport and land-use



                                                        - 39 -

                                 project area                                            jolicies
                              e Growth incars-km
                                 reduced                                                 Public awareness about air
                              e Air quality indicators                                   jollution and traffic effects
                                 improved inspite o f
                                 economic and economica                                  Acceptance o fbus system
                                 growth                                                  reformby stakeholders
                              e Reducedcarbon intensity
                                 per travelled km
                              e Evidence o fbehavorial
                                 change towards a rational
                                 transport demand




Iutput from each             htput Indicators:              'roject reports:             [fromOutputs to Objective)
iomponent:
.Use o f Bicycle is promoted        Number o fbicycle       'roject reports              [nterest inbiking as transport
                             rips inproject area                                         mode
                                     Improvedpublic         licycle counts and intensions
                             ierception about bicycle use   is part o f a four year      Sufficient budget for building
                                    Enterprises             nonitoring program           andmaintainingbikeways in
                             ommitment to facilitate                                     participating comunas
                             licycle use by meanso f        igency reports               (Santiago, h i i o a , and
                             nstalling parking places,                                   Providencia)
                             howers, andlor lockers         CR
                                      At least 15 kmof                                   Stakeholder collaboration
                             dditional bikeways built in    'ublic opinion surveys
                             Irovidencia, h 7 o a and
                             lantiago.                      ictual kmo f bikeways built
                                    Adoption o f parking    md connecting Commas
                             lrograms for bikes at Metro
                             itations
.lHybridDiesel-Electric             Drivingcycles for       Leportsfrom test             Necessary testing equipment
IusTechnology tested and     lantiago developed                                          available
ompared to CNG andDiesel            Estimationo f           hipervision reports
uses                         ssociated costs to compared                                 Availability o fbuses to be
                             :chnologies                                                 tested
                                    Estimation o f GHG
                             missionreduction from                                       Willingness o f operators to
                             cenario penetration o f                                     participate infield tests
                             xhnologies
                                    Cost-effectiveness
                             omparison amongst
                             xhnologies tested
                                    Trainedpersonnel at



                                                       - 40 -

                             relevant institutions such as
                             3CV, to test bustechnologies
                             bothinlaboratory and field
                             Eonditions
.2 Designo fbusiness model    D       Evaluation ofbusiness Study reports                articipation o f stakeholders
3 ensure profitability of     models
estructure public bus system; D        Consultation with      4gency reports
ndprogramfor retrainingof transport operators
IUS operators inplace         D        Social Plan, including
                              rrainingprograms for bus
                              operators designed
                              D        Design o f monitoring
                              mechanisms
..3 Program for modernizing   D        Assessment of options  Study report               iovemment commitment
.ationalbus fleet inplace     for fleet renewal inSantiago
                              indother Chilean cities         Agency report              wticipation o f bus operators
                               0   Monitoring systemfor
                                   tracking down displaced
                                   buses designed
'.Methodology for strategic            Strategic              Supervisionreports         nter-agency collaboration
llanningandevaluation of      Environmental Assessment o f
lrbantransport and land-use   TRANSANTIAGO                    Assessment reports
ilans inplace.

                              D        Identification of
                              formal coordinating
                              mechanisms for land-use,
                              environment, and urban
                              transport policy development
                              andmonitoring

..1Evaluationof land-use      D        Report on options for  Geo-referenced maps        jovernment commitment to
,olicies coordinated with     land-use incentives, and                                   oordinate land-useand
ransport demand and           transport and environmental     Agency reports             ransport dimensions o f

'UPPlY                        impact                                                     ilanning
                                                              Travel O D Surveys
                                       Design o f framework
                              for locatingHousing             Public surveys
                              programs, takinginto account
                              transport dimension

                                e Assessment of school
                                   zoning and planning.
                                0  Development o f
                                   methodological
                                    framework to integrate
                                   transport and
                                    environmental dimension

1.2.1 Tentative strategy and           In-depthanalysis o f   Public acceptance surveys  'olitical willingness
imetable proposed to induce   legal implications
:ongestion pricing                     Identificationo f      Agency reports             Jegal feasibility
                              measuresto implement in
                              Santiago                        Study reports


                                                           -41 -

                                      Identification o f
                               :chnology needs
                                      Evaluation o f
                               iternatioaal experiences
                               lost-benefit assessment
4.2.2 Traffic calming                 Evaluation o fpublic  ?ublic acceptance surveys     ?oliticalwillingness
measuresdesignedfor            xeptance
Santiago's city center            0   Identification o f    4gency Reports                Legal feasibility
                                  measures
                                  0   Design and costing    Study reports                 20-fmancing secured

                                  0   Publicprivate
                                  Management unit
                                  established
4.3 Pilot inplace for a               Feasibility AssessmentPilot project results         Behavioral changes are
sustainable adoption o f sound fPilot                                                     wstainable over the long term
travel demandpractices         0  Numbero fparticipants in  Supervision reports
(Travel Optimization)             pilot keep new patterns of                              Public acceptance
                                  travel demand after 2     [CR
                                  years
                                                            Public surveys
4.4 Program for                       Assessment o f        Supervisionreports            Participation o f stakeholders
Decontamination Bonds          ieasures and mechanisms to
upgraded to incorporate GHG    pgrade Decontamination
                               ionds program
                                      Development o f
                               istitutional setup
                               llearinghouse mechanism
                               esigned
Project ComponentsI            )puts: (budgetfor each       Projectreports:               (from Componentsto
Sub-components:                omponent)                                                  Outputs)
1. Promotion o fbicycleuse.    .606 Million                 reports on civil work         Counterpart funding effective
                                                            supervisionpromotional
                                                            strategy, safety and
                                                            monitoring
2. Modernizing bus system      ,054 Million                 Test Reports                  Effectiveparticipation o f
                                                                                          private partners
                                                            Supervision reports
                                                                                          Regulation inplace
3. Strategic environmental     .439 Million                 Supervision report            Political acceptance
assessment                                                  Audit reports, financial
                                                            report, quarterly and annual  Coordinationo f transport and
                                                            progress reports, and Bank    land-use measures
                                                            midterm review
4.1 Assessment o f land-use    ,072 Million                 Supervision report            Coordinationo f transport and
`ncentives andpolicies to                                    4udit reports, financial     `,and-use measures
 :educe motorized trave                                      .eport, quarterly and annual
                                                             irogress reports, andBank
                                                             nidterm review
 4.2 ReducedMotorized           080 Million                  3upervision report            Political acceptance
 rraffic                                                     4udit reports, financial
                                                             .eport, quarterly and annual  Public support
                                                             irogress reports, and Bank
                                                             nidterm review

 4.3Travel optimization   0.388Million        Supervisionreport            Willingness to participate in
                                              Audit reports, financial     pilotprogram
                                              report, quarterly and annual
                                              progressreports, andBank
                                              midterm review
 4.4 DecontaminationBonds 0.871 million       Supervision report           Regulation inplace
                                              Audit reports, financial
                                              report, quarterly andannual  Willingness to participate in
                                              progressreports, andBank     program
                                              midterm review
I5. ProjectManagement     0.268 million       Supervision report           Politicalcommitment
                                              Audit reports, financial
                                              report, quarterly and annual InformationAvailable
                                              progress reports, and Bank
                                              midtermreview




                                           -43-

                                   Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                   CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

    By Component:

     Project Component 1 US$2.58 million
                          -
    The GEF-funded bikeways would run along the following axes: Santa Isabel, 1.737 KM, Condor, 0.853
    Km, SanIsidro 0.037 Km, SantaVictoria 0.846 Km,Fray Camilo Henriquez0.126 Km, Marin 0.212 Km,
    BCilnes RepCiblica 3.279 Km, in Santiago. Antonio Varas 2.109 Km, 11 de Septiembre 0.073 Km, Santa
    Beatriz 0.370 Km, PCrez Valemela 0.047 Km, General Calderon 0.161 Km, Santa Isabel 0.190 Km,
    Marin, 0.158 Km, in Providencia. Matta Oriente 0.545 Km, Republica de Israel 1.218 Km, Grecia 2.196
    Km, Campos de Deporte -Antonio Varas 1.820Km, anda additional section of 5.698 Kminl%iioa.         The
    total lengtho fthe Bikeway Network i s 21.945 Km.

    The investments in the GEF funded bikeways are expected to average USD91,lOO per kilometer. In
    addition, the local governments will contribute counterpart funds in the order of USD 2 million, for the
    construction o f an additional 21 KM of bikeways. The Comunas have issued letters of intent, confirming
    their plan to buildthe complementary bikeways and committing themselves to the maintenance, cleaning
    andlightingo fallbikeways to bebuiltunder the Project.

    The configurationo fthe proposedbikeway network is shown below:




*




    The physical works will be complemented by an action program aimed at maximizing traffic safety and


                                                      - 44 -

      personal security for the increasing number of cyclists in the three Comunas. An independent safety and
      security audit o f the final designs has been carried out (with PDF-B funding). During construction,
      specialists will closely monitor the implementation and ensure that appropriate standards are used to
      ensure the cyclists' safety. Safety oriented measures will also be implemented and traffic safety campaigns
      and education will be carried out as part of the promotional strategy (see below).
..    Moreover, this Project component includes the implementation of a three-year program of promotional
      actions, with the overall objective o f increasing bicycle use in the three Comunas. This plan will include
      such actions as (a) collaboration with citizen's groups to develop grass-roots support for non-motorized
      transport, (b) publicity campaigns to develop an attractive image of the bicycle as transport mode, (c)
      traffic safety campaigns directed at drivers and cyclists, (d) special events such as bicycle outings
      (cicletadas) and car-free Sundays in selected streets, (e) approachesto major employers to promote bicycle
      use among their staff, including the installation o f showers and bicycle parking, (0 provision o f bicycle
      parking in public spaces and car parks, (g) establishment o f a website to provide information useful for
      cyclists, and (h) interventions to increase cycling as a feeder mode to the metro. In addition, a pilot
      program will be carried out in collaboration with a university and a high school to establish conditions
      enhancing the use of non-motorized transport (cycling and walking) by their students.

      Project Component2 US$1.45 million
                             -
      2.1      Technical assistancefor evaluating the economicand environmental impact of clean
      technologiesfor buses

      The tests will be developedusinga state o f the art emissions laboratory for heavy duty vehicles located at
      the 3 C V facilities. The 3CV laboratory would be upgraded, so that all relevant equipment gets in place.
      The chasis dynamometer will be retrofitted and the laboratory will be h i s h e d with gas analyzers, a
..    Constant Volume Sampler System (CVS); a Particulate sampler; an AC/DC clamp on power Hitester
      Hioki model; and a Measurement System for exhaust gases. GEF funds will be complemented by local
      resources; the grant amount was determined by the preparatory PDF-B study, and the amount was
      determined based on the costs of contracting thirdparties to carry out the laboratory tests. Representative
      drivingcycles for Santiago will be developed, takinginto account the new layout for the bus system, to be
      effective starting 2004.

      Complementary to the laboratory tests, the operating conditions of the buses will be closely monitored
      throughout a year, to determine costs, and technical performance. The first stage will evaluate the buses
      initial conditions, establish a baseline scenario, driving cycles and set out the methodological approach. A
      heady duty dynamometer needed for the 3CV lab will be purchased. Second phase will start the
      performance tests, and will include basic training for operating the new lab equipment and a first set o f
      laboratory testing at the 3CV. Also, it will calibrate the testing protocol according to the new lab facilities.
      Thirdphase will include the second set of laboratory tests at the 3CV facilities and will take place after 6
      months o fmonitoredoperation ofthe buses, usingdrivingcycles developedunder the project. Fourthphase
      will consist o f a second set of laboratory tests to be conducted after twelve months o f bus operation. Cost
      and performance monitoring will measure oil and fuel consumption, tires and parts degradation, and
      maintenancerequirements, including labor. The technical protocols for the testing were produced under the
      study financed with GEFresources(PDF-B) as part o fthe preparation process.

      The test will include at least 6 buses: Two (2) HybridBuses, one 10-12 meters long with Euro I1engine,
      and one articulated Euro I11hybrid. Two (2) CNG Buses (EURO I1and EURO 111); and two diesel buses:
      one Diesel Euro I1,and one Diesel Euro I11articulated bus. The GEF will f h d the tests, while private bus


                                                           - 45 -

     owners and developers will provide the 6 Buses and will allow their operation on real representativebus
     routes. Tests are estimated to cost about USDl million, which include co-funding for the 3CV upgrade.
     Counterpart funds will be in the order o f USD 2.910 million (including USD800,OOO from ENA for
     upgrading the 3CV facilities). The testing for the bus technologies will take place using over 10 buses
     provided and operatedby the private sector on existing routes. Parties expressing interest incontributing to
     this so far include Chile Association o f Bus Operators, Transelectric, Quilical, Mercedes, and Volvo.

     This test will be harmonized with the one taking place ina similar GEF project for Mexico. Experts from
     both cities will share their experiences. Also, the testing protocols will be compared to develop harmonized
     procedures. Since the project in Mexico will start sooner, the Chilean test will use all resulting lessons
     learned for their approach. Both Bank project teams have already initiated the coordination of bus testing
     activities.


     2.2.     Implementation Frameworkfor Bus Reform

     The business structure of bus services in Santiago has resulted in a costly and environmentally
     unsustainable surfacepublic transport system. Key issues include: (a) lack o f an organizational model that
#    would facilitate efficient public transport operation, (b) dispersed operations that hinder the effective
     control of bus services and contribute to traffic congestion, (c) lack o fprofessional managementamong bus
     operators, and (d) an unattractive image which induces potential bus passengers to use private vehicles
     instead. The experience of Bogoth's innovative bus corridor system has demonstratedthat the creation of
    the right business environment is vital for achieving sustainable public transport services by improving
    their commercial viability.     On the basis of the Bogotb model, the Santiago Transport Strategy for
     2003-2005 includes the implementation of about 30 kmof segregatedbus ways. As learnedinBogoti, the
    physical busway construction must be complemented by a well-conceived program of institutional
    measures to create the business environment required for reforming the bus transport system. A social
    mitigation plan will also be designed to help those transit workers impacted by the reform to find a Job
    either inthe new public transport system or outside the transport sector.

     These studies are estimated to cost USD 707.092, o fwhich USD216,315 would be financed by GEF.




                                                          - 4 6 -

     2.3      Renewal of the busfleet in the regions

     The implementation of the bus routes, and more specifically of the trunk routes on segregatedbusways is
     expected to allow the road-basedpublic transport system to runmore efficiently with a reduced number o f
     buses. Due to higher speeds, the introductionof articulated buses, and more stringent environmental norms
     approximately 4,000 buses are expected to be removed from the streets of Santiago. These buses, which
     mightnot be eligible to runinSantiagounder Santiago's own standards regarding age andemission levels,
r.   are still much newer and cleaner than most o f the buses which are circulating in the cities of the other
     regions. These buses are hence expectedto be sent to other cities where a renewal of concessionswill also
     take place. The study financed under this component will evaluate options to avoid proliferation o f those
     buses in these cities. One likely option would be to require local bus operators to replace their old buses
     with those from Santiago, through incentives that could be basically linked to the concession awarding
     process. The study would identify cities where concessions are about to be renewed, would design a legal
     and institutional framework to facilitate the renewal of the existing bus fleets and would define the
     necessary incentives to make this happen. It would also design a strategy to make sure that the oldest and
     dirtiest displaced vehicles are not sold on a secondary market but are properly scrapped according to
     adequate environmental norms. This way, the objectives of local and global emission reduction would be
     achieved.

     These studies are estimated to cost USD553,935, o fwhich USD253.935 would be financed by GEF.

      Project Component 3 US$ 0.34 million
                            -
     3.       Strategic Environmental Assessment

      Current tools for policy making rely on the use of transport models inter-phasedwith an emission model
     assessing emission changes due to changes indirect transport measures (e.g. newly segregatedbusways,
     changedtraffic patterns, introductionof cleaner vehicles or fuels). However, effects from structural
r.   changes such as pricing or tariffs, or inland-use patterns, cannot be easily measured, This component
     would strive for a better inter-agency coordinationabout cross sectoral issues arising from transport and
     urbandevelopment planning; complementarily, it will help develop a systemto introduce environmental
     evaluation of all aspects with transport planning, linkingtransport to air quality, climate change and
     environmental impact assessment. This approachwill be used over a long-termperiod o ftime, as validation
     requires important changes suchas technology renewal and land-usepattern changeto have effect.

     GEF will fund studies and workshops to develop and implement a strategic environmental planning and
     evaluation methodology. The GEF will fund these studies with an amount of USD339,105.

      Project Component 4 US$2.15 million
                            -
     4. Technical Assistance and Analytical Support: land-use patterns and internalization of
     costs


     4.1      Assessment of land-use incentives andpolicies to reduce motorized travel


     4.1.1 Developingthe Central Ring of Santiago (Anillo Central)

     The population of the city center in Santiago has unfortunately been decreasing for decades and urban


                                                          - 47 -

      sprawl is o f great concern. A preparatory PDF-fundedstudy showed that developing housing at Santiago's
      central ring (Anillo Central) would have a positive environmental impact, as emissions of both GHG and
      local air pollutants would decrease as a result o f a reduced average trip length. The Central Ring of
      Santiago not only has lots available for real estate developmentsprojects, but also enjoys a good access to
     public transport means. Simulation using ESTRAUS, MUSA, and MODEM models has shown that
      complementary public transport development inthe area, such as circular routes over the ringwould bring
      considerable reductions in emissions. The studies will help orient land-use policies so that the average trip
      length gets reduced, and where modal shift to public and non motorized transport is promoted. Potential
      articulationwith the locationof social housing programs and subsidieswill also be studied.

      The GEF will fundthese studies with an amount ofUSD188,lOO.

     4.1.2    School Location

     This sub-component will help assess the feasibility o f rationalizing school location considering the
     transport dimension. Different school location scenarios will be examined and modeled in order to provide
..   decision-makers with information on the environmental impacts of eachenvisagedstrategy, interms ofboth
     local and global pollution, the ultimate goal being the rationalization of school-related trips and the
     reduction o f their average length. It will also examine the effects o f the JEC ( fully day at school policy)
     which will severely add to travel demand inthe morningpeak hour.

     The GEF will fundthese studies with an amount o f USD195,446.

     4.1.3    Housing Policy

      It was decided in agreement with the "Mesa de Trabajo Ciudady Territorio" that the GEF support would
      focus its intervention through an analysis of the consistency and compatibility o f the various sector policies
     that affect land-use and transport, namely the policies designedby the Ministries o f Housing, Economy and
      Transport regarding land-use, social housing, transport infrastructure investment plans, air pollution, etc.
      The GEF would allow decisions makers to take knowledgeable decisions regarding housing location
     policies, that will take into account criteria linked to the impact o f those policies on travel patterns, air
     pollution and GHG emissions. Within the same logic as the other two sub-components, the project will
     promote a rational location of housing, so that urban spread i s minimized and access to public transport is
      ensured.

      The GEF will fund these studies with an amount o f USD206,910.

     4.2      ReducingMotorized Traffic

       4.2.1 Traffic Calming at City Center

     This sub-componenthas as its objective to reduce motor vehicle use within Santiago's city center. This will
     be done trough the implementation o f measures such as traffic calming, pedestrian facilities
     implementation, and parking restrictions in the area of the Triangulo Central de Santiago ( Zone between
     Alameda Libertador Bernard0 O'Higgins, the Mapocho River and Autopista Norte-Sur).                  Also it is
     expectedto enhance current programs o f pedestrian corridors recently built or actually under execution and
     to reduce the incentives to car use, trough measures pointed to restrict though traffic and limiting the
     amount o fparkingspaces downtown. A key element o f this sub-componentis to get the plan agreedby city

     center businesses and other stakeholders, and haveregulatory measures and the detailed engineering designs
     ready for implementationso that works could start as soon as possible.

     This sub-component is estimatedto cost USD 572,297, of which USD 522,297 would be financedby GEF.

     4.2.2    Congestion Pricing

     Various studies or a multi-pronged study will be necessary before defining a technically sound politically
*    viable scheme. The implementation (electronic systems, minor civil works, tolls, operating costs) i s not
     considered under GEF's financing as this would be premature at this stage. The main items which should
     be dealt withare the following:


     0        Analysis o f institutionalwill political barriers : Learning from the history o f Congestion Pricing in
     Santiago, the reasons wouldbe examined why the political context has made it impossible to implement a
     systemwhich hadbeen envisagedfor years, with the objective o f finding a practical and more effective
     future approach to overcome these barriers.


     0        Inventory andanalysis of international experiences (Norway, Singapore, London, etc.).


     0        Choice o fthe pricing mechanism : severaloptions will be examined, such as area-wide pricing,
     pricing limitedto downtown ;and corridor-based congestion-pricing. Options include flat,
     distance-related, and time-differentiated tariffs.


     0        Choice of the technology :review and investigatethe technical options for congestionpricing in
     Santiago and their potential public and politicalacceptability.


     0        Legal base for dedicating revenues: The Government's fiscal policy does not permitthe
     earmarking of taxes. It must be determinedunder which legaland institutional arrangementsthe revenues
*    from congestion charges can be regarded as user fees.


     0        Sustainabletransport fund: Inthis vain, consideration wouldbe givento the creation o f a fund
    which would utilize the revenues from congestionpricing for improvements to public transport and
    non-motorized transport.


     0        Surveys (possibly statedpreference surveys) and modeling :these surveys will help the technical
    team andthe decision makers to examine potential user responseby means of behavioral research,
     including statedpreference analysis and traffic simulation modeling.


     0       Environmentalimpact and GHGemission reduction assessment : The aforementioned
     comprehensiveanalysis o f changes intravel behavior would provide the elementsnecessaryto carry out the
    environmental assessment of Congestion Pricing, focusing on GHGemissions.


     0       Informationcampaign to facilitate political acceptability o f Congestion Pricing : Incollaboration
    with Government and civil society groups (includingthe Automobile Association), public relations
    specialistswould define an information strategy.

    The GEF will find these studies with an amount o f USD378,089, out of which 92% will be used to fund
     specific studies and 10%will be dedicated to workshops, field trips, and publications.


                                                            - 49 -

4.3       Travel Optimization

Duringthe preliminary phase, neighborhood(s) andcompanieswillbe identifiedwhere thisprogramis most
likely to succeed. Then, GEF funds will be used in a first instance to finance the census of the trips for a
few thousands households and the drafting of alternative travel patterns for the households involved in the
pilot. Also, to assess the potential role of companies in supporting travel optimization projects; GEF
resources will also be used to develop a large scale program for voluntary travel optimization, while
monitoring travel needs and actual traveling practice during a fixed period of time. This will involve
developing questionnaires, surveys, monitoring indicators, and actual monitoring during and after the
project i s implemented, and calculating environmental impact and cost effectiveness. Then, complementary
actions would be taken which would require GEF financing such as street sign improvements, publication
o f a Community Directory with an inventory o f the shops and services available in the targeted
neighborhoods, the realization of a specific web-site to facilitate car pooling, etc. part of the grant would
also be required for the follow-up of the program, notably to assess its impact in terms of the reduction in
car trips.

The GEF will fundthese studies with an amount o f USD188,lOO.


4.4      Decontamination Bonds

CONAMA is preparing a project of law to establish a legal and comprehensive ground for the so-called
Decontamination Bonds. These are economic instruments designed to place a cap on emissions to the
Metropolitan Area o f Santiago. The concept is as follows: any new polluter has to compensate by more
than 100% its net pollution contribution to Santiago's emissions, through purchasing contamination
permits (called Decontamination Bonds) or through investing inreducing emissions inother sectors. Thus,
a coal-power plant located in Santiago will have to scrap old buses, or convert taxis to CNG, or simply
purchase emission permits in order to expand its capacity. Until now, via environmental licensing,
CONAMA has managed to control growth inthe generating power inindustryand utilities, and has acted
as a clearinghouse, helping find environmental options to invest in. Also, the system had only addressed
point sources of pollution. To advance the Decontamination Bonds, CONAMA has submittedthe draft of a
law to Congress. The new law will extend the coverage to mobile sources, and will create a basis for
creating a more liquidemissionspermits market. The project will help upgradethe system, to enable carbon
emission reductions to be traded.

The project will provide resourcesto facilitate sustainable transport projects to be funded by the emerging
market o f emission permits. The system's supply curve will derive from the incremental marginal cost of
those transport projects. The demand curve will be dictated by the excess in emissions resulting from a
command and control measure; placing a reduced cap for the city's overall emissions will generate demand
for emission permits. The underlying concept i s that for a polluter it can be less expensive to purchase an
emission permit,than incurring incosts to reduce its emissions in-house.

Today the market does not exist as such. Demand and supply do not meet; CONAMA's intention is to
generate a clearinghousemechanismto help bringtogether demand and supply of emission permits. A fund
may help do that without the need o f coordinating the involved parties, and will help inject liquidity and
reliance into the system. The GEF study will help determine the best ways to ensure the C02 emissions are
incorporated into the system. It will also ensure that emission reductions resultingfrom the system can be



                                                    - 50 -

acceptedand traded internationally.

The GEF will fundthese studies with an amount ofUSD471,562




                                                - 51 -

                                          Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                 CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)

                                                                                                 Local                Foreign
                        ProjectCost By Component                                               US $million          US $million
1.Promotion ofBicycleuse                                                                           4.56                   0.05                     4.6 1
2. Modernization ofBus System                                                                      4.33                   0.73                     5.06
3. Strategic Environmental Assessment                                                              0.44                   0.00                     0.44
4. Technical AssistanceandAnalytical Support: land-use                                             3.34                    0.07                    3.41
patterns and internalization of costs
5. Project Management                                                                              0.27                    0.00                    0.27
Total BaselineCost                                                                                12.94                    0.85                  13.79
 Physical Contingencies                                                                            0.20                    0.00                    0.20
 Price Contingencies                                                                               0.00                    0.00                    0.00
                                        Total ProjectCostsI                                       13.14                    0.85                  13.99
                                Total FinancingRewired                                            13.14                    0.85                  13.99

                                                                                                 Local                 Foreign                   Total
                          Project Cost By Category                                             US $million          US $million            US $million
Goods and services                                                                                    3.17                     0.73                   3.90
CivilWorks                                                                                            3.70                     0.00                   3.70
Consulting                                                                                            6.07                     0.12                   6.19
Contingencies                                                                                         0.20                     0.00                   0.20
                                                        Total Project CostsI                        13.14                      0.85                  13.99
                                               Total Financing Required                             13.14                      0.85                  13.99

   IIdentifiable taxes anddutiesare 0 (US$m) andthe total project cost, net o ftaxes, is 13.99 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 0%o f total
   projectcost net o ftaxes.




                                                                    -  52 -

                                       Annex 4 IncrementalCost Analysis
                    CHILE: SustainableTransport and Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)
     Overview

     This project will help reduce GHG emissions from ground transport in Santiago, through a promotion of a
     long-term modal shift to more efficient and less polluting transport modes. To this end, the project will
     co-finance measures aimed at removing barriers for changing cultural behavior and transport demand
     patterns; improving the public transport system; promoting cleaner fuels and technologies; and
     incorporating the environmental dimension inurban transport, and land-useplanning.


     Context and Broad Development Objective

    With over 5 millionpeople, Santiago de Chile concentratesmuchof Chile's economic and political activity
     over 50,000 ha. Transport in Chile contributes to almost 40% of all GHG emissions, and Santiago hosts
    most of the emission sources. About 40% of the country population lives in the city, and 50% of Chile's
     GDP is generated in Santiago, which has experimented a relatively acceleratedeconomic growth (over 6%)
     during the last decade. As a result, the urban sprawl is expanding quickly and the use of private car is
     intensifying.From 1991 to 2001, households owning at least a car augmented from 36% to 56% causing
     trips inprivate cars to increase from 18.5% to 38.1%. Conversely, for the same period, trips by bus have
     fallen from 59.6% to 42.1% o f all motorized travel modes. The intensity in the use o f cars pairs with an
    relatively inefficient public transport systemto produce traffic congestion, and a carbon intensive transport.
     This tendencybringsabout dire consequences interms of GHGemissionsand air pollution.


     Barriers for an efficient and less carbon-intensive transport

    Achieving an efficient transport system ina city i s major and difficult task and may not suffice to attain the
     goal of reducing emissions and sustaining them in the long term. It also requires the participation of
*    stakeholders, who play a key role in the selection of transport modes, and moreover in the intensity of
    transport use. Also, transport users decide where to live, and how and where to conduct their businesses,
    not necessarily thinkingabout the best transport mode combination. Therefore, one of the main barriers for
     achieving a less carbon-intensive transport i s (i) the resistance to change cultural patterns or behavior. The
    use o f bicycles as a transport option; rationalizing the demand for car or motorized transport use through
    travel optimization practices; making a better use of mass public transportation; and attending schools or
     services located near the household location or work place are some o f the areas addressedby the project
    that require cultural change.

     Other barriers include (ii) the inefficient public transport svstem. As long as the mass public transportation
     i s not efficient enough to reduce travel time under reasonablecosts and comfort, the car will continue to be
    the preferred transport mode. The (iii)lack of adequate infrastructure for non-motorized transport is also a
    barrier that needs to be overcome. Bicycle use can only be incremented if safe, well located, properly
    designedbikeways are available, and complemented by parking places, showers, and lockers. Besides cost,
    there is also (iv) a technological risk attached to the newer and cleaner transport technologies. Finally, the
    (v) regulatory framework as a barrier to the adoption of newer schemes as Congestion Pricing, and use or
    zoning ofpublic space.




                                                           - 53 -

      Strategy for overcoming barriers and Global Benefits

      Late in 2001, a PDF-B project was approved by GEF to help prepare an Air Quality and Sustainable
      Transport Project for Santiago. Based on the 2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago
      (TRANSANTIAGO), considering the Decontamination Plan for Santiago prepared by CONAMA, and in
      light of GEF Operational Policy on Sustainable Transport, a series of measures were studiedduring2002
      to help develop this GEF proposal. The following measures or sub-components have been identified due to
     their potential for both addressing air pollution and reducing GHG emissions: (1) Promoting the use of
      bicycles; (2) Modernizing the bus system; (3) Assessment of land-use incentives to reduce motorized
      transport; (4) Reducing motorized traffic through Congestion Pricing and traffic calming; (5) Strategic
      Environmental Assessment and Planning; (6) Travel optimization; and (7) Decontamination Bonds. Most
      measures promoted under the project will be effective in the long-term. Reductions in GHG emissions will
      be felt as a result of TRANSANTIAGO implementation, as the addition of net effects from all measures.
      Preparatory studies under PDF-B, using a conservative approach, have already shown potential
      C02-equivalent reductions as a result of TRANSANTIAGO implementation. Below is the estimated
      potential impact from all control measures supported by the project, based on the level of information
      available. However, not all of these potential reductions could be compared against each other, as different
      assumptions, and implementation timeframes have been used for studying each type of measure. The
      Strategic Environmental Assessment sub-component will enable a comparison between and amongst
rr    componentsto show local and global impacts at different points intime.


      1.      Promotion of bicycleuse

      The introduction o f even a moderate shift from motorized modes of transport to bicycles could provide
      substantial benefits in terms of GHG emissions. For the GEF-supported Marikina (a district o f Metro
      Manila) bikeway project, it was estimated that an increase of bicycle usage from 1.6% in2000 to 2.8% in
      2015 would yield aggregate benefits o f USD4 million for an initial investment of USD2.1 million. A
      decrease o f 3% in the vehicle-km traveled by private cars and taxis as a consequence of modal shift to
      bicycle trips in metropolitan Santiago would help reduce C02 emissions by 1.15% at about 126,000 tons
      per year.


      2.      Modernizing the bus system

      (a)Technical assistancefor evaluating the economic and environmental impact of clean technologiesfor
      buses. It is expectedthat the hybridbuses inthe public transport fleet will allow reductions inemissions o f
      airborne pollutants over 60% o f EURO I1standards currently used in Chile, and up to about 15-30% in
      GHG emissions (the latter achieved as the hybrid bus requires less fuel to run). Based on ASIF
      methodology and takinginto account the total fleet o f the new bus system, ifwe assume a scenario o f 561
rr    per year .
      hybridbuses (about 25% of the 2005 trunk fleet), it would mean a reduction of about 23,516 tons C02


      @) Technical assistance to develop an implementation framework for bus reform. Reforming the bus
      systeminSantiago generatesimportant gains inefficiency for the operators and for the transport system o f
      the city as a whole. These gains will not only provide operators a better return on investment, and users
      shorter travel times, but emissions will get reduced as a consequence of fewer buses needed, o f increased
      use of bus capacity, o f higher average speed, and o f modal shift. Based on the information obtained from
      the PDF-B preparatory studies, the projected bus system will offer annual reductions in the order of


                                                         -  54-

586,000 tons o f C02.

(c) Renewal of the busfleet in the regions. The new bus routes system is designed to operate with fewer
buses than the current fleet. About 4,000 buses will have to be replaced in order to comply with the
technology standards for the city. As these buses will probably go to other cities or countries, older buses
are expected to be substituted. Ifthe project succeeds in avoiding that the older buses remain in operation
after all 4,000 are replaced, there could be annual reductions o f C02 emissions inthe order of 80,000 tons
Assumingtypical traveledkmpera"of 100,000 km, anda 100%scrappingofEPA 94 buses..


3.       Strategicenvironmentalassessment andplanning

Current tools for policy making rely on the use o f transport models inter-phased with an emission model
assessing emission changes due to changes in direct transport measures (e.g. newly segregated busways,
changed traffic patterns, introduction of cleaner vehicles or fuels).       However, effects from structural
changes such as pricing or tariffs, or in land-use patterns, cannot be easily measured. This component
would strive for a better inter-agency coordination about cross sectoral issues arising from transport and
urban development planning; complementarily, it will help develop a system to introduce environmental
evaluation of all aspects with transport planning, linking transport to air quality, climate change and
environmental impact assessment.



4. TechnicalAssistance andAnalytical Support: land-usepatterns and internalizationof costs


4.1      Assessment of land-use incentivesand policiesto reduce motorized travel


(a) Developing the Central Ring of Santiago. Density patterns are obviously closely linked to
transportation and therefore energy use and greenhouses gases emissions. Different studies (Naess, 1993,
INRETS, 1995, Newman and Kenworthy, 1998) have shown a strong correlation between the energy use
par capita in passenger travel and urban density. Preliminary simulations show that a set o f real estate
development projects (6,000,000 m2 of housing projects, i.e. almost 50,000 homes, and sq m2 915.000 of
non-housing projects) strategically located along the Anillo Central, and implemented in lieu of other real
estate development projects of the same amplitude but located further away from the center, would generate
substantial benefits in terms o f travel patterns and subsequent emissions : transport-related C02 emission
in Greater Santiago would decrease by 6.7 % while PMlO and PM2.5 emissions would drop by an
estimated 8%, ifand only ifthese real estate developments projects were to be accompanied by consistent
transport policies to avoid further congestion, i.e. mainly a substantial increase and improvement o f public
transport supply.

(b) School Location and Housing Policy. Both sub-componentsare aimedat promoting a reduction inthe
average traveled vehicle-km, which i s expected to allow for lower emissions o f GHG and local air
pollutants. This will be achieved through a combination of lower transport demand (shorter trips), and
modal shift to public and non-motorized transport.

4.2      ReducingMotorized Travel

(a) City Center Revitalization. This sub-component aims to reduce car use in the city center while at the


                                                     - 55 -

same time maintaining its commercial and cultural attractiveness, allowing for reductions inC02 emissions
derived from modal shift. In 2001 the amount of travel trips to the city center was 4.1% o f the total trips;
assuming that 30% of these trips will go to the Central Triangle, and that with measurersas traffic calming
we reduce the amount of trips by 50% a reduction of 20,931 tons of C02 per year would be possible,
equivalent to 0.19% of total emissions. Also, less traffic in the city center will bring about local
environmental benefits derived from lower exposureto air pollutants ina relatively closed area.

(b) CongestionPricing. GHGemission reductions are directly linkedto the reduction inthe use ofprivate
vehicle trips. Congestion Pricing has significant potential to reduce congestion by lowering vehicle-km
traveled, since effective road user charges reduce traffic demand. Since environmental impacts such as
GHGemissions increasewithrisingmotor vehicle use, CongestionPricingwould have apositive impacton
global warming. Different options have already been tested through traffic models under the PDF
preparatory studies, and the results show the importance of designing correctly the proposed road-pricing
mechanisms to maximize benefits and avoid possible negative side-effects. A preparatory study shows that
a scheme where car drivers would have to pay 1000 pesos (USD 1.4) to enter a small area inthe center o f
Santiago there would be none or very little environmental benefits, since there would be a trade-off
between car users who would decide to switch to public transport and car drivers, whose destination i s not
located on the tolled zone but whose current itinerary goes through it, who would then opt for a longer
itinerary. On the other hand, a more extendedtoll zone inthe city, whereby car drivers would be required to
pay the same amount when entering a wider area defined by Americo Vespuccio ringroad, or when driving
within this area, would actually deter many more car users from using their vehicle. This shift to public
transport, and the impact on current congestion levels, would reduce transport-generatedC02 emissions in
Greater Santiago by 9.6%. Inaddition to this, and since fewer private vehicles would use the roads, public
transport commercial speed would rise and generate substantial time savings to their users. To end with,
proceedsfrom the toll couldbe usedto finance public transport improvements, to optimize the traffic signal
systemor to untie local bottlenecks on the road network.

4.3      Travel optimization

This innovative approach, which promotes a more rational use of motor vehicles, has (in two Australian
schemes) resulted in the reduction o f car trips by 23%, and of vehicle-km traveled by 21%. In Santiago
there has already been a demonstration experience, which allowed reductions in average travel km by
23.3%. Such a scheme i s expected to yield substantial reductions o f GHG emissions at very low cost. A
reductiono f 10% incar-km could meana reduction of C02 of over 340,000 tons, a total 3.1% reduction.

4.4      Decontamination Bonds

CONAMA i s currently developing a National Program o f Decontamination Bonds, to control the increase
of emissions of air pollutants due to the booming economic activity. New polluters on the system will have
to compensateby buying emission permits, which can be traded on the local market. Chile is one o f the
leaders in Latin America in the use o f market based instruments for environmental management (they
already have an incipient market for NOx emission permits from fixed emission sources). Chile has a well
developed financial market, including a vibrant stock exchange and a good level o f secondarymarkets.

Incorporatingcarbon emissions offset by sustainabletransport projects inthe programwill allow to place a
limit to the ever growing C02 emissions; the potential impact interms ofpotential C02 emissionsreduced
will result from the project financed studies. The project is aiming at allowing sustainable transport
investments to take place in exchange for measures to avoid GHG emissions generated elsewhere. To
illustrate, there has been a recent deal whereby a power plant located in the city of Santiago has been


                                                   - 56 -

      allowed to expand its generating capacity. To compensate for the additional NOx emissions into the city's
      airshed, the power plant will finance conversion of taxis running on gasoline to CNG. At the end, a net
      reduction in emissions was obtained, while a much larger reduction in exposure was ensured (as taxis
      inflict a more direct effect onpeople and hardware).


      Baseline Scenario and Costs

      The baseline scenario assumes the implementation of measures consistentwith Santiago's Urban Transport
      Plan - TRANSANTIAGO, mainly those aimed at restructuring the public transportation system.
      TRANSANTIAGO is a program focused on reducing air pollution and improving transport, without
      consideration o f GHG emission reduction. In the absence of GEF, TRANSANTIAGO would have only
      focused on achieving a renewedplan for routes, concessionschemes, and integrated fare for the bus system
      without much consideration of technologies such as the hybrid diesel-electric buses. Also, studies to
      develop Congestion Pricing or land-use incentives to reduce travel distances would not take place. In the
      same line, studies on incentives for school and housing location as a way to reduce the average traveled km
      would not take place with the neededcelerity. Finally, the programon decontamination bonds would remain
      focused on local air pollution objectives. Total expenditures under the baseline scenario are estimated to be
      at least USD6.272 million.

      As per the baseline scenario in terms of GHG emissions, the annual level of emissions derived from the
      current trips taking place inthe city inyear 2000 is about 7 million MT C02-Equivalent. This results from
      over 20,000 millionvehicle-km resultingfrom a total o f trips.


      Alternative Scenario and Costs

      The proposed alternative will seek to demonstrate the benefits of measures aimed at promoting a change to
      less carbon intensive transport modes; a reduction o f average traveled distance (avg vehicle-km for specific
      trips), anda more efficient use o ftransport (more passengers per vehicle kilometer). Inorder to make these
      measures possible it is necessary to ensure an institutional coordination of sector policies and sustainable
rr    mainstreaming o f the environmental dimension into land-use and transport planning. Following is an
      incremental cost analysis for each component and sub-component:


      1.       Promotion of bicycle use

      The baseline o f this component includes the already budgeted plans for recreational bikeways in the
      Comunas o f Santiago, Providencia, and fiuiioa. Without GEF, the bikeways would be built considering the
      particular recreational goals of each Comuna, and without any need of standardization. The GEF project
      will ensure that the bikeways built effectively address transport needs, considering specific trip purposes
      such as work and education and linkingthem to other transport modes such as the Metro. Also, the GEF
      alternative will ensure that a promotional strategy is implemented to promote and sustain the cultural
      change neededto induce modal shift from motorized transport. Finally, the costs will also cover the safety
      and monitoring studies.




                                                         - 57 -

     2.       Modernizing thebus system

      2 1 Evaluationof Bus technologies. The baselineincludes most o fthe equipment neededto upgradethe
       . .
     chassis dynamometer emissions testing laboratory for heavy-duty vehicles. Incremental costs are linkedto
     part o f the laboratory equipment, co-financing the development o f Santiago's driving cycle, and the field
     tests and coordination.

     2.1      Implementation Framework for Bus SvstemReform. Here the baseline includes the existing studies
     on the newbus system. The alternative project includes additional studies on the business structure, so that
     the new systemgets supportedand can start soonerattracting cleaner technologies under the new operation
     concessions.

     2.2      Renewal o fbus fleet. This sub-componenti s all incremental. Without the GEF, the old buses
     displaced from Santiago would simply end inother cities contributing to increaseGHGemissions. The
     incremental costs are attachedto the initial study.


     3.       StrategicEnvironmentalAssessment

     The associated baseline for these studies is the existing modeling capacity which would be used to
r.   determine impacts in air pollution and traffic congestion related to the implementation o f such measures.
     The alternative project will ensure that the global dimension is counted in, and measured.


     4.        TechnicalAssistance andAnalytical Support: land-usepatterns and internalizationof cost


     4.1      Assessment ofland-use incentivesand policiesto reduce motorized travel


     The baseline for this sub-component i s the local contributionto studies, and use of existing modeling tools.
     The alternative will ensure that these studies take place, oriented to measurethe potentialreductionof GHG
     emissions.

     4.2.     Reducing MotorizedTraffic

     As with the Strategic EnvironmentalAssessmentcomponent, the associatedbaseline for these studies is the
     existing modelingcapacity which would be used to determine impacts inair pollution andtraffic congestion
     related to the implementation o f such measures. The alternative project will ensure that the global
     dimension i s counted in, and measured.

     4.3      Travel optimization

     Inthis case, without GEF the implementationof a programwould probably not take place inthe short or
     medium term. A small pilot has already been implemented and some results evidence the potential for
     reducing the emissions greenhouse gases; however, the GEF co-funding can spur a larger program, where
     private sector will pair with the Government to achieve results. Incremental costs account for half of the
     foreseeninvestment.

     4.4      Decontamination Bonds


                                                          - 58 -

The associatedbaseline is the slow development of an emission permitstrading system, where air pollutants
such as NOx only get targeted. GEF participation will ensure that the system is well defined from the
beginning, inparticular with reference to the monitoring and verification methodologies and protocols, so
that future verified carbon emission reductions canbe traded internationally, attracting foreign investment.

The total cost o f the GEF project alternative i s estimatedat USD13.985 million.


IncrementalCosts

Implementation o f the barrier removal strategy noted previously would require funding of incremental
costs, which would be the difference between the cost of implementingthe baseline scenario versus that of
the GEF Project alternative. GEF funds are sought to support incremental costs. The total cost of the GEF
Project alternative i s USD13.985 million, as compared with the baseline case o f USD 7.005 million. Thus,
the incremental cost of the GEF Project alternative would be USD6.98 million. The table below show the
contributiono f GEF to the development of the alternative project.



   Component                                  Domesticbenefits     IGlobalBenefits        PotentialAnnual
                                                                                            CO2-Equiv
                                                                                         Reductions(MT)"
  Promotionof          Baseline
   Bicycleuse                                     intra comuna


                     Alternative
                                                                    additional22 Km




                                                                    and associated

                      Increment     2.583    f                     1GHG   emissions
                                                                                               126,000
                                                                   I
   Modernizing         Baseline     1.600     DrivingCycleof
  de BusSystem                                Santiagodeveloped
                     Alternative    5.064                           Estimationof
                                                                    Reductionof GHG
                                                                    emissionfrom
                                                                    transportscenario
                                                                    penetrationof
                                                                    technologies
                      Increment     1.454                                                    690,000**
       Strategic       Baseline
 Environmental                                landuse development
   Assessment        Alternative                                    Frameworkfor
    (SEA) and                                                       locatinghouses


                                                       - 59 -

                                               irograms taking
                                               '0  account
                                               .ransport
                                               iimension and
                                               neasurement o f
                                               202 emission
                                                -eductions from
                                               .his type of
                                               lntervention
     Increment   .339                                                N.A.
      Baseline   0.482   Report on options for
                        anduse development
     Altemative  1.072                         Framework for
                                               locating houses
                                               xograms taking
                                               :o account
                                               :ransport
                                               iimension and
                                               measuremento f
                                               202 emission
                                                reductions from
                                               h i s type o f
                                               intervention
     Increment   .590                                              280,000***
      Baseline   .180   inalysis o f the legal
                        mplication.
                        dentification o f
                        neasuresto recover
                        nvestment costs from
                        oad and public space
                        levelopment
     Altemative  1.080                         Data and option:
                                               for reducing
                                               carbon emission;
                                               from reduced
                                                C a r - k m
     Increment   0.900                                              480,000
      Baseline  0.050   konomic savings
                        romreducedtravel
                        ndless air pollution
     Altemative  .388                          Reduced fuel ust
                                               andGHG
                                               emissions
*
                                               Data to assess
                                               experience and
                                               replicate elsewhl
     Increment   .188                                               340,000
      Baseline   .300   levelopment o f local
                        ndglobal emission
                        eduction program.



                               - 60 -

                                                                                to incorporate
                                                                                carbon emissions
                                                                                trading
                                                                                Clearinghouse
                                                                                mechanism
                                                                                designed
                             Increment        .471                                                            N.A.




                            Alternative       .143                              Effective
                                                                                implementation o f
                                                                                global climate
                                                                                change aspects
                             Increment        .136                                                  i
                              Baseline       7.005
                            Alternative      13.985                                                 I
                            Increment        6.980




     (*)       Emissionreductionsroughly estimated usingdifferent time implementationassumptions, available at the time of
     projectpreparation.Cross-feedingeffects have not beendeducted, andawhole long-term effect is assumed. The Strategic
     EnvironmentalAssessmentcomponent will evaluate overall effects andeffects attachedto differentscenarios of interventionat
     different times inthe future.
     (**)      Assuming23,516 MT tons from hybridbusespenetration; 586,000 MT from overall bus systemrestructuringwithout
     technologicalchange; andabout 80,000 MT frombus renewal(4,000 units)
*    (***)     Only from centralring of Santiago, assumingfullrealestate development andtransport accessby 2015.




                                                               - 61 -

                                  Annex 5: Financial Summary
                 CHILE: SustainableTransport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)
                                        Years Ending
                                         2004-2007
                                                  IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD                        I
                           IYear1  I  Year2   I  Year3   I  Year4   I Year5   IYear6  IYear 7
   Total Financing
   Required
    ProjectCosts
     Investment Costs           5.6       4.5        3.5        0.4        0.0     0.0    0.0
    Recurrent Costs             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0
   Total Project Costs          5.6       4.5        3.5        0.4        0.0     0.0    0.0
   Total Financing              5.6       4.5        3.5        0.4        0.0     0.0    0.0
   Financing
     IBRDllDA                   2.9       1.9        2.0        0.2        0.0    0.0     0.0
     Government                 0.8       1.2        0.4        0.4        0.4    0.0     0.0
         Central                1.4       0.2        0.2        0.2        0.0    0.0     0.0
         Provincial             1.4       0.2        0.2         0.2       0.0    0.0     0.0
*    Co-financiersprivate       2.0       0.3        0.0         0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0
   Sector
   User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
   Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
   Total Project Financing      5.7       3.4        2.4         0.6       0.4    0.0      0.0




                                             - 62 -

                                    Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                   CHILE: SustainableTransport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

      Procurement

                                    ProcurementandDisbursementArrangements

     All procurement will be done inaccordancewith the IBRD's guidelines on procurement of goods, works
     and services, and using standard bidding documents and requests for proposals acceptable to IBRD
..   (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated on January 1995, Revised January
     and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), and Guidelines: Selection and employment of
     Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised March 1997, September 1997, July
      1998, November 1999, and May 2002.

     UNDP will perform as procurement agent following the Bank procedures, and using the electronic
     advertising required by national Law. UNDP services will not be financed out o f the GEF grant.



      1.       Procurementof Works (prior reviewthresholdUSD500,OOO and first NCB)

     The project will finance the construction of about 22 kmofbikeways in3 Comunas in Santiago. There will
     be up to 3 contracts for a total amount o f USD2 million, of which GEF will fund USD1.7 million (85%).
     Contracts will be awardedusingNational Competitive Bidding(NCB).


     2.        Procurementof Goods and Non-consultantServices (prior review for LIB and first
     Shopping)

     The project will finance (i)   emission testing laboratory equipment; (ii)geographical information system
     (GIS) services for school location analysis; (iii)logistic support for workshops and training; (iv)
     publications; (v) surveys; and (vi) trips for evaluating foreign experiences. It i s estimated that a total of
     USD1,094,979 will be contracted, out o fwhich the GEF grant will fundUSD1,040,232.

      The emission testing laboratory equipment will cost about USD730,OOO and will be purchasedusing the Limited
     International Bidding procurement method, subject to prior review The other goods will be purchased under
      internationalor nationalshopping.




                                                          - 63 -

..    3.        Procurementof Consultants(thresholdsfor prior review USD200,OOO for firms,
      USD50,OOO for individuals)

      The project will finance consulting services for a total o f about USD4,200,000, out of which GEF will fund
      about USD3,990,000. Most contracts will be procured using the Quality and Cost Based Selection method for a
      total of USD3,186,880. Two contracts will use the Quality Based Selection method: (i)        Safety Strategy for
      Bicycle Use (component 1); and (ii)     Development o f Field Tests and Driving Cycle for comparing bus
      technologies (component 2). In both cases, the information produced will be key for developing the
      components, there are not many experts in those fields, and the quality will be the required criteria for
      selecting the consultants. Consultants' qualifications will be used for another 2 studies under USDlO0,OOO each,
     where not only there is need of recognized expertise ad the main driver, but also to enable a shorter contracting
     period. The need for immediate contracting is the reasonto use the Single Source selection method for contracting
      the study to develop a baseline against which to measure the component on Promotion of Bicycle Use (under
     USD30,OOO). Least Cost Selection (less than USD100,OOO each) will be used for contracting the project auditing,
      and the supervision of civil works, as there are consultant services which tend to follow standard procedures.
     Finally, individuals (under an aggregate of USD400,OOO) will be used for the (i)  Project Implementation Unit, (ii)
      for coordinating the bus technology tests at 3CV; and (iii)      international experts to provide advice on the
      development of the Decontamination Bonds, and the Promotion of Bicycle Use. The total number of consulting
      contractsunder the project addto USD4,200,229, out of which the GEF grant will fund USD3,990,218.

..   4.         OperatingCosts

      The project will also finance incremental operating costs (about USD55,336 of which the GEF will fund
     USD46,113) including travel expenses, office supplies, advertisement, publications, and mailing related to
     the execution o fthe project at the Project Implementation Unit.



     ProcurementPlan




                   Component               I Contracts /Duration/W/G/C I/F LS/T
                                                                             I      I       I   Procurement   I




     1.6 Supervisionofworks                   99,000         24         C       F       T          LCS
      1.7 Base lines                          29,700          7         C       F      LS           sss
      2. Modernizingthe bussystem            1,492,300
      2.1 Evaluation of Bus Technologies      997,300
      2.1.1 Equipment                         730,000         7         G       F                   LIB
              ~~


          2.1.2 Field Tests & DrivingCycle    217,800        13         C       F      L S         QBS
      2.1.3 Coordination                      49,500         15         C       I T                 cv


                                                            -64  -

2.2 Implementation Frameworkfor        495,000
BusReform
         2.2.1 Diagnostic, evaluation  93,060    8     C  I LS      CQ
         anduredesirm
         2.2.2 DesignAdjustment        134,640   7     C  F  L S   QCBS
         2.2.3 Fleet Renewaland        267,300   13    C  F  L S   QCBS
         environmental effects




      4.1.1 DevelopingCentral Ring     198,000   13    C  F  L S   QCBS
  4.1.2.1 SchoolLocation               59,400    10    C  F  L S   QCBS
         4.1.2.2 School Location - GIS 163,548   12    G  F       Shopping
4.1.3 Housing Policy                   217,800   12    C  F  L S   QCBS
4.2 Improving Trafflc Flows            964,989
4.2.1 Traffic Calming
         ..                            562,574
  4.2.1.2 Study                        444,085   14    C  F  L S   QCBS
  4.2.1.2 Workshops                    49,565    4     G  F       Shopping
  4.2.1.3 Trips                        18,69 1   1     G  F       Shopping
  4.2.1.4 Surveys                      50,232    4     G  F       Shopping
      4.2.2 Congestion Pricing         402,415
  4.2.2.1 Study                        360,360   14    C  F  L S   QCBS
  4.2.2.2 Workshops                    18,691    2     G  F       Shopping
  4.2.2.3 Trips                        18,691    1     G  F       Shopping
  4.2.2.4 Publications                 4,673     3     G  F       Shopping
4.3 Travel Optimization                198,000




                                               - 65 -

     (*)    IncludingGEF plus counterpartfunding
*    (**)   W=Works; G=Goods andnon-consultantservices; C=Consultants
     (***)  I=Individual; F=Firm
     (****) LS=Lump Sum; T=Time Based(for Consultants)

      Procurementmethods(TableA)


                           Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)




    2. Goods                               0.00               0.00      1.10     2.81     3.91
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)    (1.04)   (0.00)   (1.04)
    3. Services                            0.00               0.00     4.20      1.92     6.12
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)    (3.99)   (0.00)   (3.99)
    4. Operating Cost                      0.00               0.00      0.06     0.00     0.06
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)    (0.05)   (0.00)   (0.05)
    Contingencies                          0.00               0.00      0.20     0.00     0.20
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)    (0.20)   (0.00)   (0.20)
       Total                               0.00               2.00      5.56     6.43    13.99
                                           (0.00)            (1.70)    (5.28)   (0.00)   (6.98)




                                                     - 66 -

                       Table A1: ConsultantSelection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ millionequivalent)




                            (3.03)   (0.36)    (0.00)   (0.16)     (0.14)   (0.03)    (0.00)     (3.72)
8. Individuals              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00     0.29      0.21       0.50
                            (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.27)    (0.00)     (0.27)
                    Total   3.19      0.38     0.00     0.17        0.15     0.32      1.94       6.15
                            (3.03)   (0.36)   (0.00)    (0.16)     (0.14)   (0.30)    (0.00)     (3.99)
1\Including contingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Single Source Selection,Selection of individualconsultants (per Section V of
                 ConsultantsGuidelines),Commercial Practices,etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                 - 67 -

     Prior review thresholds (Table B)
+
                      Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'

                                      Contract Value                                       Contracts Subject to
                                        Threshold                 Procurement                   Prior Review
       Expenditure Category           (US$thousands)                  Method                    (US$ millions)
     1. Works                           >500.000                       NCB                          K L

                                          <500                         NCB                          First
     2. Goods                           <150.000                     Shopping                       First

                                        >150.000                       LIB                           All
     3. ServicesFirms                     >200                     QCBS- QBS                         All

                                          <200             QCBS/QBS/LCS/SFC/CQ/                     TOR
     IndividuaIs                                                        ss
                                         >50.000                       Other                         All

                                         <50.000                       Other                        None




    The UNDPwill be the procurement agent for this project. Its experience mitigates the Risk, considering the
    relatively large number of implementing agencies, and the short experience o f CGTS. A procurement
     assessment was camed out considering both UNDP and CGTS, which will be in charge o f managing the
    project. UNDP meets the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements and the Project
     ExecutionUnit(PEU) has satisfactory organization althoughit needs the hiringo f aprocurement specialist.
    A Bank Procurement Specialist (PS) has instructed the procurement process for CGTS and the
    procurement plan has been designedwith the participation o f UNDP, CGTS and the PS. CGTS and UNPD
    have both receivedguidance on how to keep record o f the procurement process, to become able to conduct
    ex post evaluations. An Action Planwas agreedwith CGTS.

    The Overall Procurement Risk i s considered AVERAGE because the lack of specific experience in Bank
    procurement i s balanced by the UNDP experience in project implementation and because measures to
    mitigate risk would be implemented. Special procurement conditions would be added to the Grant
    Agreement and the following additional measures will be conditions of grant effectiveness: (i)hiring of a
    procurement specialist for the PIU, (ii)
                                           the approval by the Bank of the Project Operational Manual, (iii)
+   the implementation ofa Procurement Information System satisfactory to the Bank,and (iv) the signingof a
    Cost Sharing Agreement acceptable to the Bank.

    An Action Plan aimed at alleviating risk and at facilitating project implementation was agreed on and
    includedinthe Aide Memoire of the Project Pre-Appraisal Missionheld from August 4 to 8,2003.




                                                    - 68 -

      Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: The Procurement supervision mission will be
      every year.



               Special Provisions on Procurement to be includedinthe Grant Agreement

     Basing on the legal framework used in Chile for procurement of goods, works, services, and consultants;
      and on UNDP's role and special provisions, the following Special Conditions will be includedinthe Grant
     Agreement:


     a)      Selection of consultants shall be on the basis of short-lists and not subject to open competition.

r.   b)      The evaluation processand the related documents shall be kept confidentialuntil the contract
     becomesbinding.
     c)      A two-envelope systemofprocurementwillnotbeusedfor the procurement ofgoods or services
     other than consultants'.

     I\Thresholds generallydiffer by countryandproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
      Procurement" andcontact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                        - 69 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                CHILE: SustainableTransportand Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)

FinancialManapement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
The fmancial management assessment was conducted in accordance with OP/BP 10.02, the Guidelines to
Staff for the Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements inWorld Bank-Financed Projects (dated
June 30, 2001) and the FinancialMonitoring Reports: Guidelines to Staff datedNovember 30, 2001. The
objectives o f the assessment were to determine if the CGTS has the capacity to properly manage and
account for all project proceeds and to produce timely, accurate and reliable financial monitoring reports
for use by management and submissionto the World Bank

Strengths andWeaknesses

The clear strengths o f the project i s Chile's record on fiscal transparency; the overall attitude about control
and compliance and the Intemal Control arrangements of the project. Chile's high rate on law and order,
the quality of its bureaucracy, and the low levels of corruption indicate a good attitude about control in
public finances and that apply also to the project execution (as the project will be executed and controlled
by public institutions). The review of internalcontrols for the project will be managedby the IntemalAudit
o f the Ministry o f Transport. Also the country's high performance in public finance i s reflected in the
country compliance recordinBank financedprojects inChile.

The main identified potential weakness is associated not with GEF funds but with counterpart committed
execution.   The complexity of multiple technical counterparts, which also will execute the technical
components, may result indifficult monitoring o f counterpart fundexecution.

RiskAssessment

The performance o f the Chilean govemment in implementation o f Bank projects, the country's rating on
perception of the public sector performance (Transparency International Corruption perception Index -
CPI) andthe effective managementof the public sector budget evidenced by Chile meeting its fiscal targets,
all indicate that there is a strong degree integrity in management, that government officials are well
experienced, andthat pressureto misuse funds is not an issue. This situation combined withthe relative and
straight forward nature of financial transactions in CGTS for the project execution lead to the conclusion
that the inherent riski s low.

The project will be executed under CTGS and the overall financial administration will be under the
responsibility o f its Administrative Area. Also the internal control rules and regulations o f the Ministry o f
Transport apply to the operation. These controls require adequate segregation of duties, competent stated
and documented procedures, in addition to regular reporting to central authorities, and an internal audit
carried out by the Internal Auditor o f the Ministry o f Transport. Additionally a consulting firm will be
hired to evaluate intemalcontrol and procedures inCGTS and provide suggestionsfor improvement (Terms
of Reference for this consultant service were provided during project appraisal). UNDP, which will act as
procurement and disbursement agency, has also agreedto act with the Bank to supervise the disbursement
procedures to ensure a proper use o f funds.

However, the project financial system i s not yet fully in place and, therefore the control risk cannot be
considered low in this aspect until the complete system is in place. Hence the control risk is considered


                                                      - 70 -

medium. However, upon the completion of the recommended actions noted in the action plan, the control
and project risk could be upgradedfrom mediumto low risk.


Inherent Risk                               Level         Comments
Country Specific                            Low          Secondary sources indicate good performance of
                                                         Chile's public sector in budget management; also
                                                         it has an excellent record in execution of Bank
                                                         projects.
EntitySpecific                              Low          Subject to rigorous control of Chile's financial
                                                         managementarrangements.
Project Specific                            Medium       FMoperations are not of a complex nature, they
                                                         will be carried out by CGTS in collaboration
                                                         with UNDP. Management has some experience
                                                         in project execution and is very conscious in
                                                         financial management matters. However there
                                                         are many actors in technical implementation
                                                         (component implementation agencies)
Control Risk
FinancialManagement System                  Medium         ot yet in place. Reporting format, accounting
                                                                 and Chart of accounts will be included in
                                                                          Manual. UNDP administrative
                                                                         signed andreviewedby the Bank.

Internal Control Framework
                                                         supervision (Internal audit control). A specific
                                                         consultant fmwill be hiredto assess and provide
                                                         technical   assistance




Institutional Arrangements

The project components will be implemented by the relevant government authorities, under the overall
coordination and supervision of the Executive Commission for Transport in Santiago - CGTS, with the
assistance o f UNDP as the project's procurement and disbursement agency. CGTS is an institution created
for the implementation of TRANSANTIAGO. CGTS i s a dependency o f the Ministry o f Works, Transport
and Telecommunications, and is the driving institution for Santiago's Directorate on Transport, chaired by
the Ministry of Transport, and also formed by the Minister o f Housing and urban development, the Sub
secretaries of Public Works, Transport and Housing, the Intendente o f the Metropolitan Region (governor
equivalent), and the ExecutiveDirector of CONAMA.

The project's technical components will be executed by the respective implementing units, with oversight
by the CGTS. The financial managementof the project will reside inCGTS. Implementationof the project
will be guided by the Project Operational Manual (MOP), which will include the Financial Management
manual and a detailed procurement plan. The implementingunits will provide regularly scheduledprogress
reports to the CGTS. The CGTS, inturn, will report project progress on a semi annual basis to the Bank,
according to agreeduponperformance indicators.


                                                 - 71 -

     UNDP will sign an administration agreementwith the Ministryo f Public Works, Telecommunications, and

.c    Transport to act as disbursement and procurement agent of the project. UNDPwill act under CGTS orders
      and receive the project funds, perform procurement process, make payments, and report back transactions
     to CGTS. GCTS will follow the technical recommendations of the different implementing agencies for
     eachcomponent.

     ProjectManagement

      CGTS has skilled staff to managethe financial management functions fulfilling the organizational structure
      designed for the project. An additional accountant will be hiredunder this new operation, to monitor the
     project account managed by UNDP.

     Financialmanagement o fthe project is the responsibility of the Administrative andFinance Coordination of
      CGTS. This area carry out the financial management functions o f budgeting, accounting and treasury.
     GEF funds will by channeled through UNDP. Counterpart contributions will be both in kind and funds.
      Counterpart funds will be those needed to comply with the pari passu of GEF project (to pay taxes and
     comply with the Standard Disbursement Percentage for counterpart funding) and will also be channeled
     through UNDP. Inkindcontributions will be made by the corresponding technical executing agencies and
     will berecorded by CGTS as they certify the physicalprogresso fthose relatedactivities.

     AccountingandInformationsystems

      CGTS Administrative Coordination will maintain the accounts for the project in its accounting system.
      This system may adopt the Public Expenditure Reform Project (SIGPFE) project module, adjusting it with
     the specific chart of accounts reflecting the categories and components of the project. Also CGTS will
     maintain an adequate asset register for the project.

      The accrual basis o f accounting will be used for internal reporting and for the production o f FMRs.
      Chile's public sector accounting rules are comprehensive and consistent with public international
      standards. They are set by the CGR and the implementing entities are responsible for developing and
      maintainingtheir own accounts within these rules (Chile: Report on the Observance of Standardand Codes -
      FiscalTransparencyModule, IMF,August 2003).

      2. AuditArrangements

      Internalaudit

     MinistryofTransport's InternalAuditUnitwill reviewthis project and has agreedto include this operation
      in its annual operational plan. The review of the Internal Audit Department found that it is operated by
     professional auditors who manage an annual audit plan, which is agreedupon with the central office o f the
      Internal Audit of the Executive. The annual operational plan (POA) does include reviews of the systems
      under which the project is operating andi s reported. The internalaudit comprises the review o f the internal
      control framework andprocedure regulatory compliance o f CGTS.

      Externalaudit

      CGTS will be responsible for preparing financial statements for the project. The project will be audited



                                                         - 72 -

      annually according with Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank, and                  by auditors considered
      acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines: Annual Financial Reporting and Auditing for WB-fiianced activities, F M
      Board, June 2003.). The auditor contract should cover the duration of project implementation, reducing costs
      and helpingto provide timely audited reports to the Bank. The project will prepare the Terms of Reference
      and submit them to the Bank for clearance. The annual audit will be due no later than six (6) months after
      the end of the project's fiscal year (the fiscal year coincides with the calendar year).

      3. DisbursementArrangements

      The Bank will advance Trust Fundproceeds through UNDP, and UNDP will be responsible upon CGTS
      requests, for payments to contractors and consultants. The local counterpart contribution funds will be
      allocated to CGTS and will also be transferred to UNDP to disbursed jointly with GEF funds, allowing
      compliance with disbursement percentages in each category (To avoid tax Bank financing and for the
r.    applicationof SDP in consultant services), Contributions inkindwill be managedout of this system by each
      sub component agency andonly will berecorded as their physicalprogress is certified.
       Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                        Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

                Expenditure Category                   Amount in US$million              FinancingPercentage
      IGoods andWorks                                II         2.01            II                85%                I
       Consultancy Services                                     3.99                              95%
       ODerating Cost                                           0.05                              80%
       InternationalGoods                                       0.73                              100%
       Contingencies                                            0.20                              100%
       Total ProjectCosts with Bank                             6.98
      ITotal
       Financing

                                                                6.98
      The disbursements will be made through UNDP based on the regular UNDP procedures (Manual de
      Gesti6n de Proyectos, UNDP)., which consist in a mechanism based on a forecast o f project expenditures
      agreed between the project and the Bank, covering the next six moths period, which is presented on a
      quarterly basis. Under this mechanism each quarter the project forecast the funds needed for the next six
r.    months and based on the funds available on UNDP, request the difference. An administrative operative
      manual acceptable to the Bank will be preparedandwill be agreedupon before grant effectiveness.




                                                            - 73 -

                                                   I  FlowofFunds       I

                                                   I    Worl: Bank       k-...'.
                                                 ---__---..                     \\
                                                                                  \I



                                                            ' c



                                                               I


                                                                             -
                                                         Beneficiaries




                                                                                        Flow of funds




..   Reporting and Monitoring

     CGTS will prepare the following Financial Monitoring Reports: (i) summary of uses and sources of
                                                                               a
     funds and a statement of uses by project activity; (ii)      procurement monitoring reports, and (iii)     Output
     monitoringreports, all inaccordance with models to be agreeduponby effectiveness. The FMRs will be a
     condition of effectivenessof the Grant.

     Additionally, CGTS will prepare annual financial statements in line with the Bank requirements. CGTS
     will beresponsible for the financial managemento fthe project (including accounting, timely submission of
     the Financial Management Reports -FMRs, annual audits and disbursements). The FMRwill be submitted
     semiannually to the Bank, jointly with project progress reports. The physical progress indicators will be
     consulted with the TTL to ensurethe usefulnessof the FMR inthe overall project supervision.

     Manualof Operations

     The functions and responsibilities of the project management would be governed by the Manual o f
     Operations (MOP), will include, among other aspects, a full description o f project activities, procedures,
     financial guidelines, criteria for selecting consultants, staffing, assignment o f staff responsibilities, project
     supervision, flow of funds, special account, budgeting, auditing, reporting, as well as procurement and
     disbursementprocedures. The MOP will be a condition of effectiveness for the Grant.

     Impact of ProcurementArrangements

     A procurement assessmenthas beenconducted and it indicates that Overall Procurement Riskis considered
     satisfactory. The assigned Procurement Specialist has recommended the strengthening o f PIU capabilities
     through the hiringof a consultant with expertise inBankprocurement methods.



                                                          - 74 -

      Action Plan

      As a result of the assessment, the assessment concluded that the following action need to be completed in
       order to strengthen the project's financial management arrangements.

   Action                                       ResponsibleEntity                     CompletionDate
   1.Administrative Operative Manual     I             CGTS                         Before Effectiveness
      approvedby the Bank.
   2. Chart o f accounts approved by the               CGTS                         Before Effectiveness
      Bank to be included in Operative
      Manual
   3. FMR format approved by the Bank                  CGTS                         Before Effectiveness
      to     be  included  in Operative

*     Manual
   4. FM Manual approved by the Bank                   CGTS                         Before Effectiveness
      to     be  included  in Operative
      Manual
   5. Terms o f Reference for a Single                 CGTS                         Before Effectiveness
      opinion Audit to be included in
      Operative Manual

       SupervisionPlan

                            Timing             Mechanism                           Obiective
             Visit          General            Integrating supervision missions at Review FMsystem.
                             Supervision:      least one time each semester.       Supervise        Special      Account
                            Twice a year for                                       Reconciliation. Use o f funds.
                            fmt year, once a                                       Follow up on External         Auditors
                            year   for     the                                     recommendations1raised issues.
                            following years.                                       Review staffin.
            ~



             FMRReview      With        each   Over the FMR submitted to the       Review FMRinformation consistency.
                            report             Bank.                               Raise issues disclosed inFMR.
                            Once a Year        Over the Audit Report submitted Review Audit Report.
                                               to the Bank                         Raise issues disclosed inAudit Reuort



       Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):
      Use oftraditional disburesement procedures of the N e w Financial Monitoring Reports were agreed during
      appraisal




                                                            - 75 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
              CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)



  Time taken to prepare the project (months)            20
  First Bank mission (identification)                   0310112002             11/01/2001
1 Appraisalmission departure                    I       08/04/2003        I   08/04/2003    I
  Negotiations                                          09/10/2003            09/10/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                         01/15/2004

Preparedby:
Juan Lopez-Silva
Jose RamitnGitmez

Pierre Graftieaux
Gerhard Menckhoff
Antonio Blasco ,LCOAA
Andres Mac Gaul, LCSPR


Preparationassistance:
Ana B. Iraeta

Bankstaff who worked on the Droiect included:
          Name                                          Speciality
 Juan Lopez Silva                         Task Team Leader
 Pierre Graftieaux                        Urban Transport Specialist
 GerhardMenckhoff                         Urban Transport Consultant
 Jose RamitnGitmez                        EnvironmentalConsultant
 Antonio Leonard0 Blasco                  FinancialManagement Specialist
 Andres McGaul                            Procurement Specialist
 Marta Molares-Halberg                    Legal Counsel




                                                  - 76 -

                                   Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                  CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)


     A. Project ImplementationPlan
     The PIP can be found inthe Project File

      B. Bank Staff Assessments
     The Project Concept document ( PCD ) and other comments inproject file.

      Sustainable Transport, Priorities for Policy Reform, World Bank Group, Washington D C 1996.

     C. Other
r.
     Cities on the Move, a World BankUrbanTransport Strategy Review, 2002

     Estadisticas Episodios Criticos Calidad del Aire en Chile, Servicio de Salud Metropolitan0 del Ambiente,
     January 2003.

     Estraus, urbanTransport Development software, SECTRA 200I

     HybridElectric Drive Heavy Duty Vehicle Testing Project, Final Emission Report, Northeast Advanced
     Vehicle Consortium. M.J. Bradley & Associates ,Inc. West Virginia University. February 2000

     Methodologicalanalysis for Urban Transport Plans, SECTRA 2002

     MODEM, software to model the emission impact for urbantransportation, SECTRA 2001

     Mussa, Urban Development and Transportation Software, SECTRA 2001

     NYCT Operating Experience with HybridTransit Buses ,World Bus & Clean Fuel Summit, Los Angeles,
     June 2000

     Origin Destiny Survey for the Great Santiago, SECTRA 2001.

     Plan de prevenci6n y descontaminacibn atmosfkrica de la Regibn Metropolitana, Drecreto No. 20, Sectrari
     general de la presidencia de Chile. Santiago, Abril2000.

     Strategic Environmental Assessmento f Transport Corridors: Lesson learned comparing the methods o f five
     member states, EnvironmentalResourceManagement, January 2001

     Preparacibntkrminos de referecnia para la Evaluaci6nAmbiental Estratkgica (EM) del Plande Transporte
     Urbano de Santiago, 2000 - 2010 ( TRANSANTIAGO). Centro de Estudios para El Desarrollo y Medio
     Ambiente, Diciembredel 2002.

     Plan de Cambio Tecnol6gico para el Sistema de Transporte Nblico de Santiago Chile, Universidad de
     Chile, Facultad de Ciencias Fisicas y MatemAticas, Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile. Deuman
     Ingenieros. Enero del2003.


                                                        - 77 -

     Preparacibn del Estudio para la Evaluacibn Ambiental y Econbmica para Buses de Tecnologia Limpia.
     DeumanIngenieros, Santiago de Chile, Marzo del2003.

.r   Tarificacibn por Congestibn y Medio Ambiente en Santiago: Viabilidad TCcnica y Politica. Juan de Dios
     Orttizar Salas, Santiago, Chile. Octubre del 2002.

     Tarificacibn por Congestibn Londres- Estudio de Caso. Juan de Dios OrOizar Salas, Santiago , Chile.
     Mayo del 2003.

     "Transportation and C02 emissions :Flexing the Link", Paris 1999. This methodhas already been used in
     a GEF-World Bank bikeway project inManila.

     Urban Air Quality Management -Coordinating Transport, Environment and Energy Policies inDeveloping
     Countries, Masami Kojima and Magda Lovei, World Bank Technical Paper 508,2001.

     Urban Transport Plan for Santiago, TRANSANTIAGO 2000 - 2010, SECTRA, Ministry of Works and
     Transport, MIDEPLANand consultants.
     *Including electronic files




                                                       - 78 -

                                          Annex 9: Statementof Loansand Credits
                       CHILE: SustainableTransport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)
                                                            24-Sep-2003
                                                                                                                  Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                           and actual
                                                                  OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                        disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO77282     2003 CL-Science for the KnowledgeEconomy            25.26      0.00                       0.00   25.26        0.93       0.00
PO69259     2002 CL Pub ExpenditureManagement                   23.23      0.00                       0.00   19.83        5.10       0.00
PO68271     2002 CL-Lifelong Learningand Training               75.75      0.00                       0.00   72.74       15.62       0.00
PO55481     1999 CL-HIGHER EDUCATION                           145.45      0.00                       0.00   56.18       42.47       0.00
PO55480     1999 CL MUNIC DEVr II                               10.10      0.00                       0.00     3.22       3.22       0.75

                                                     Total:   279.79       0.00                       0.00   177.24       67.34      0.75




                                                                - 79 -

                                             CHILE
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30 - 2003
                                      InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                       Disbursed
                                                      IFC                            IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1991/93        Aconcagua                        0.00    0.45     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.45    0.00  0.00
1999           CBTI                             0.00    0.00     0.83    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.83  0.00
1989191199     Escondida                        0.00    0.00     16.66   0.00   0.00   0.00   12.91  0.00
1996           FEPASA                          11.60    5.60     0.00    4.68   11.60  5.60    0.00  4.68
2003           LanChile                        30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1994196197     Moneda Mgt                       0.00    0.13     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.13    0.00  0.00
1994           Pionero Fondo                    0.00    9.33     0.00    0.00   0.00   9.33    0.00  0.00
1996           ProaFund                         0.00    6.64     0.00    0.00   0.00   6.64    0.00  0.00
2000           San Antonio                     35.00    3.70     0.00   65.00  24.15   3.70    0.00  44.85
0              TFSA                             0.00    4.44     0.00    0.00   0.00   4.44    0.00   0.00
2003           TRANSELEC                       60.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   60.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
                     Total Portfolio:         136.60   30.29     17.49  69.68   95.75  30.29   13.74 49.53



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002           San Vicente                         0.02      0.00     0.00     0.02
2003           Thames Chile                        0.04      0.00     0.00     0.04

              Total PendingCommitment:             0.06      0.00     0.00     0.05




                                              - 80 -

                                              Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                  CHILE: SustainableTransportand Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)


                                                         C                          Development diamond.

                                                                          331                   Life expectancy
                                                                         5,040
                                                          66.4    1,727  1,668                         T
                                                            1.3     1.5    1.2
                                                           2.0      2.2    1.6      GNI
                                                                                    Per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                               capita
                                                            17
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                     86      76      75
Lifeexpectancy at birth (                                   76      71     73                           i

Infantmortality (per I,                                      9      27      19
Child malnutrition (%                                         1       9                   Access to improved water source
Access to an impro                                          93      86     90
                                                             4      11      7          -
                                 hool-agepopulation)       103     130     105                Chile
                                                           104     131     106         -Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                           101     128     105


                                                  1982    1992    2001   20
                                                   24.3   41.9    66.5    64.2       Economicratios'

                                                   11.3   23.8    20.7
                                                   19.4   30.7    34.7                                Trade
                                                    9.4
                                                      ..  25.2    22 7
                                                          21.5     19.8
Currentaccount balancelGDP                         -9.5    -2.3    -1.9      ..      Domestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                                        2.7     2.7    2.5       savings                        Investment
TotaldebffGDP                                      71.1   45      57.8    63.0
Total debt service/export                             ..  20.8    29.5    33.1
                                                                  56.8
                                                              ..  167.2                             Indebtedness
                                          -92 1992-02     2001    200
                                                                                        __/m   Chrle
                                          6.8       5.0     2.8     2.
GDP per capita                                              1.5     0.                   -Upper-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982    1992    2001   2002      1 Growth ofinvestmentand GDP (%)
I%of GDP)                                                                                                                     I
Agriculture                                         5.5     9.9     8.8              20

Industry                                           34.7   38.1    34.3                0
  Manufacturing                                    18.5   20.5     15.8
Services                                           59.8    52.0    56.9             '20

Private consumption                                75.3   65.2    65.3
General governmentconsumption                      15.3     9.7    12.0
importsof goods and services                       21.3    29.3    32.7

                                                        1992-02   2o01              Growth of exports and imports(%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                         7.4     1.8     6.5             20

Industry                                            5.7     5.1     2.1      ..     10
  Manufacturing                                     6.4     3.1    -0.3      "

Services                                            5.7     3.6     2.9              0


Privateconsumption                                  5.4     5.8     3.0          -10

Generalgovernmentconsumption                        1.5     3.6     2.7      ..  -20
Gross domestic investment                          14.6     5.0   -13.6                     %-Exports       +imports




                                                                -81 -

                                                                                                                              Chile
PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1982        1992    2001    2002
Domesticprices                                                                   Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      l5 T
Consumer prices                            9.9        15.4      3.6     3.0
ImplicitGDP deflator                       8.5        11.8      1.5     2.6     10


Governmentfinance                                                                5

(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)                                                         -
                                                                                 0
Currentrevenue                               ..       22.9    22.8    22.8
Currentbudgetbalance                                   5.0      3.2     2.4
Overall surDlus/deficit                      ....      2.3     -0.3    -1.1    I                 GDPdeflator      -CPI            1

TRADE                                                                       :::,
                                         1982        1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   Exportand importlevels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      3,706      10,007  18,050  19,133                                                        i
 Copper                                  1,685       3,886   6,746   7,151
 Fruits                                    375       1,005   1,116   1,182
 Manufactures                            1,207       4,031   9,070   9,614
Total imports (ciD                       4,094      10,183  16,334  17,151
 Food                                      590                                  10000

 Fueland energy                            632       1,138   2,589   2,718       5 w o
 Capitalgoods                              697       2,540   3,418                                                                I
                                                                     3,589     I     O
Export priceindex (1995=100)                            75      65      68               96   97    98      fi9    00      01

Importpriceindex (1995=10Uf                             86     117     127                   Exports          .Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100J                               87      55      53                                                     O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1982        1992    2001    2002
(US$ millionsf                                                                 1 Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services                        12,364  22,315  23,019
Imports of goods and services                       11,820  21,221  20,619
Resource balance                             ......    544   1,094   2,400
Net income                                          -1,881  -2,757  -2,808
Net current transfers                        ....     378      422   -529
Currentaccount balance                  -2,304       -957   -1,243
Financingitems (net)                                 3,455  2,363
Changes in net reserves                      ....   -2,498  -1,120  -1,165
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)          ..      9,009  16,331  17,495
Conversion rate (DEC.locallUS$)           50.9       362.6   634.9   688.9

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982        1992    2001    2002
(US%millions)                                                                I  Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    17,315      19,134  38,398  40,432
  IBRD                                    200        1,928     728     555
  IDA                                       20          13       7       6
Total debt service                      3,676       2,693   6,648    7,702                                                 388
  IBRD                                     28         312      182    252
  IDA                                        1           1       1       1
Composition of net resource flows
  Officialgrants                            7          56       23       0
  Officialcreditors                        -69         54    -121    -313
  Privatecreditors                      1,497         532    1,461   1,385
  Foreign direct investment               401         935   4,476        0
  Portfolio equity                          0         338    -219        0                              F: 36,400
World Bank program                                                          I
  Commitments                               0         313        0       0                                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            32         200       39      28      A - IBRD                                  ~

                                                                                                                      F Private
  Principal repayments                                                          B - IDA     D - Other multilateral
                                            14        168      119    202       C IMF
                                                                                   -                                  G Short-tern
                                                                                                                       --
  Netflows                                 19          32      -81   -175
  interestpayments                         15         144       64      50
  Nettransfers                              3        -112    -144    -225
77



                                                          - 82 -

r




                                  Additional Annex 11:ParticipationPlan
                  CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

    The GEF project aims at supporting the implementation of TRANSANTIAGO during its 10 years of
     implementation form 2000 to 2010. Among its major characteristics, participation of stakeholders, public
     and civil society, has become a fundamental issue since its formulation. TRANSANTIAGO i s a radical
    and comprehensive initiative aiming at the organization o f the Transport Sector in Santiago, in order to
     complement the service provided by the Metro and looking forward to provide a transportation sector to
    poor and low income communities onthe Metropolitan Region. With this inmind, a participatory plan must
    be designedto produce deep changes inurban transport andurbandevelopment.

    TRANSANTIAGO has identified the main institutional and social actors involved in the preparation and
     implementation o f the plan as follows:


     0      Institutional: Government & Municipalities
     0      Public transport system: Operators and drivers
     0      Communities (at the neighborhood level)
     0      Municipalities
     0      NGO's; and
     0      Buses and equipment suppliers.

    Along with this identification, CGTS is developing a conflict managementanalysis, basedon the following
    assumptions:

            The public transport is a very important issue for the citizens and for all relevant public
    opinion-maker actors and sectors.
     0      Public transport operators tend to be the worst evaluated sector by the citizens.
     0      Operators are the mainsource o fresistance to change and conflict. Therefore, conflicts between
    Government and operators tendto solidify analliance between the Government and the communities,
    NGOs andmunicipalities.
     0      This alliance is strengthenedifa realprocessofparticipationo fthe community and o fthe
    municipalities i s developed for the different stages ofpolicy design and implementation.

    At the development stage ofthe participatory plan there are severalactions to be implementedbasedonthe
    category o f the sector which will participate on the development of the plan, as it is explained below for
    every actor previously identifiedthe planwill address its issuesas follows:


     0      At the community level, theplan will include thefollowing:

    Work with community organizations at the barrio level to polish up the design o f the new system (reach of
    troncal and feeder services, design & security o f bus stop places, interior layout o f new buses, type &
    conditions of night services, information needs, etc) and to check advances at different stages, incorporate
     some specific sectors (Le. university students and the like) into some specific tasks at different stages o f the
    modernization process (Le. Information to users at some critical moments of the process, continued
    monitoring o f performance of the new system, etc); build regular links and contacts between the
    community, the PT operators and the municipalities; design a web page for information exchange and
    suggestions gathering, which is currently in place for the development o f the GEF project; and make
    available a dedicatedtelephone line for consultations and suggestions.


                                                          - 83 -

      0      At the Municipalities level, theplan will include:

..   Permanent "Work Table" with majors, heads of the transit and public works departments, head o f the
     District Secretary o f Planning, and other local officials. The agenda of subjects should include (i) District
     urbanplanning & public transport; (ii)    Specific coveragerequirements o f the local public transport system;
     (iii)Segregatedlanes for public transport; (iv) Modal exchange stations, and transfer stations (metro-bus &
     bus-bus); (v) Technology of buses; and (vi) Environmentalqualities required for specific public places in
     the district (schools, hospitals). Also, at the municipality level there must bejoint contacts with community
     organizations for the coverage of the agendao f subjects at the barrio level.

      e      At the NGOs level, theplan will include thefollowing:

     Creation o f a permanent consulting council that will include NGO representatives, to discuss policy design
     and implementationof the public transport system, community participation, and work with municipalities.
     Formation o f a consultative body with NGOswith expertise and interest inenvironmental aspects linked to
     different policy and plan components o f the renewed public transport system. Involve NGO's in the
     technical work (through tendering), so that they can participate as consultants and provide their experience
     on community participationprocesses.


      0      At the Public Transport Operators level, theplan will include thefollowing:

     Promotion of a strong participatory process and provision o f technical assistance to support the creation of
     enterprises within the new concession schemes for public transportation, for the existing transport
     companies. Also, through their participation in the design o f the tender process itself @re-qualification of
     future companies participating in the 2003 tender process). Promotion o f associative processes between
     current public transport operators with the new operators (both national and foreign), and promotion o f
     continuous dialog betweenoperators, municipalitiesand local communities.


      0      At the Public TransportDrivers level, theplan will include thefollowing:

     A wide informative process amongst drivers' organizations about policies and plans, and its consequences
      for workers in the sector. Promotion o f an active participatory process, involving the various drivers'
      organizations, Installation of a "Work Table" for permanent and periodic discussion around an agreed
      agenda about workers rights and labor conditions in the future public transport system, about
     "Professionalization", re-training o f current drivers, permanent training in future concession contracts, and
      strengthening sector labor organizations.

      e      At the Great Santiago community level, theplan will include thefollowing

      Strong and sustained communications strategy, closely synchronized with the participation strategy,
     addressed at users as well as non-users o f public transport in order not only to inform them but also to
     prepare them for the oncoming changes, develop among "santiaguinos" a sense o f identification with
      Santiago and with the drivingidea "Santiago, world quality city" as well as with the importance o f public
     transport    system and users transformation for such objective, and develop a powerful sense of
     identification for the santiaguinos with their modemized public transport system: "Un transporte para la
     gente".




                                                           - 84 -

     Additional Annex 12:Measuringthe Air Quality in Santiago,The PredictiveModel
               CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

In Chile, critical episodes of Air Pollution occur during the Fall and Winter seasons, when the weather
conditions are not favorable for pollution dispersion. This situation triggers highlevels ofparticulate matter
(PM10).

Inorder to determine the type of local atmospheric conditions., it is necessaryto understand the role that
plays the air quality norms for atmospheric contaminates. A local regulations establishes a level of
concentration ,from which, sensiblegroups experience symptoms due to the concentrations of contaminant.
In the case of Particular Matter, the Chilean regulation establishes 150 ug/m3 as the average The
measurement unit ug (microgram) corresponds to one /lo00 of milligram The used concentrationunit, ug/m3,
express the quantity o f mass of contaminants per volume unit in the air.   .This level can not be more than 7
times per year. In case this threshold is not met, the Environmental authority must set a plan to
decontaminatewith the purpose of reestablishthe committedlevel.

Inthe MetropolitanRegion, the norm for Particulate Matter, is overcome bymore than 60 times a year.
Basedon this fact, a planto decontaminatethe city was establishedin 1998. though, the levels ofpollution
can reach extremely highlevels, for which operational plans to confront the critics episodesare established.
Since 1989, inthe region exists a plan to mitigate these effects. Modifiedin 1997, the plan sets three levels

Matter reaches 195 ug/m3 .Level two (2) is pre-emergency, or Index 300, when the concentration o f
to restrict emissions. The level one (l), alert, or index 200, produced when the concentration of Particulate

Particulate Matter reaches240 ug/m3. Level 3, Emergency or Index 500, when this reaches 330 ug/m3. It
i s important to note that the last emergency episodes was registered inJuly 1999. Every level has actions
associatedto stop emissions.

The following table resumesthe above information:
                I                                      Concentration
                      Category        I              I      ug/m3        I    Index     I
                III Goodhorm)               0        I      0- 150            0-100     I
                       Regular              0              151 - 194         101-199 I
                         Alert        III    1       II    195-239       III 200-299    I
                    Pre-emergency           2             240 - 329          300 -499
                      Emergency             3                330 +            500 +


At the Alert stage, the circulation restrictions for two digits from vehicles without the green seal are
applied, in the months from March toDecember. In Pre-emergencies, the restriction i s extended to four
additional digits for vehicles without the green seal, and for two with green seal. Also, Industries which
emissions exceeds 32 mdm3 and can not work with double chamber chimneys. These measures are also
completed with the implementation o f a emergency gridcirculation systems.

At the emergency periods, restrictions reaches up to 6 digits for vehicles without the green seal and four
digitswith green seal. A1the steady emission sources with emission exceeding sing 28 mg/m3 have to stop,
the double chamber chimneys can't work, and alternative circulation grid for transportation i s inplace. All
the above is complemented with a message to population, that includes recommendations to reduce acute
exposure to contaminants, especially to the most vulnerable groups, elderly people, children and people


                                                       - 85 -

     with chronic respiratorydiseases.

     The plans respond to extreme situations and have as an objective mitigate the pollution impact and to
     reduce the acute exposure to contaminants. The decontamination o f the Metropolitan Region will be
     achieve introducing structural measures into the system. The last ones have allowed to significantly reduce

.r   the levels o f Particular Matter, to the point that, on the last 12 years, the annual average concentration o f
     PM2,5, the most aggressivepollutant for people, was reduced by 50%, in a context where the economical
     activity have doubled.

     As the above achievements are not sufficient, in order to reach the goals, and based on the need of more
     stringent controls, it i s necessary to adopt more strict actions, to protect local population from days of high
     pollution.

     The predictivemodel

     Between 1989 and 1996, the prediction model worked based on the fact of events conformation. This
     means, once the event happened and was verified, measures to contain the episode were placed. At that
     time, filters were used to monitor local air pollution. These filters were exposed for 24 hours. Lately, the
      filters were driven to labs were after a day of dryness, they were measured. At that moment concentration
      levels were measured after two days. Based on this information, local authorities established exceptional
     measures the day after. In the mean time, since the occurrence o f the event and the implementation of
     measures, three days were passed. The accuracy o f the system, understood as the coincidence between the
     actions o ftakingmeasures of the episodewere extremely low, not overcoming 1%.

     Later after 1997, automatic stations to measure Particular Patter were introduced. The last generation
     monitors provided information of continuous mode, to hourly value. By this way, the Environmental
     authority updates inhourly matters, the mobile average every 24 hours. Based on this, the critic episode is
     verified at the moment when it happens. When the measures to contain the episodes are placed, the delay
     between the exposition and the restriction to emission had one day. The percentage of achievement
      improved, basically due to the fact that the meteorological considerations associatedto pollution events, are
      due to last 3 to 4 days, by which the occurrence o f episodes o f two consecutive days was at that time, a
      frequent situation. Meanwhile actions were delay inrespectto population exposure.

     All the above headed local authorities towards the implementation of an predictive event system, which
      could be capable to anticipate the occurrence of the event and to establish restrictive measures during the
      same day when the high concentrations were produced. In 1997, the first system was established and
      implemented. This systems was adjusted the year after. The forecast operatesbasedon statistical equations,
     that correlates meteorological variables and air quality. Based on current daily information, given by the
     monitoring stations, and a weather forecast, the equations produce the expected concentration value for the
     next day. Based on this assumption, the authority establishesthe restrictionmeasures.

      The applied model has acceptable levels o f success, o f about 80%, with variations from one year to
      another. Although, the levels o f success on critical events o f about 50%. In fact, during 2002, 7
     pre-emergency measures were identified and 17 alerts, this means 24 episodes, of a total o f 170 days,
     between the 1of April and the 17 of September. During2001, only 20 critical episodeswere demonstrated.




                                                           - 86 -

Current Situation




                     - 87 -

                     Additional Annex 13:Global EnvironmentalImpact Calculation
                    CHILE: SustainableTransport and Air Quality for Santiago (GEF)

     ASIF Methodology

     The basic approach to calculate the global environmental impact o fthe project, measuredas reduction of
.r   GHGemissions, is basedonthe so-calledASIF methodology . ASIF is a useful analytical framework for
     analyzing changes inemissions and for confronting possibilities for the future. It stands for Activity,
      Structure, Intensity and FuelChoice. Basically, the methodology principle is the following :

                       Z A Si Ii Fij
                             * * *
      Considerthat G=   i ~ j


     Where G i s the carbon emissions from the particulartransport sector, A is the total travel or freight activity
     (inpassengers-kmor ton-km), Si is a vector of the modal shares, Iiis the modal energy intensity of each
     mode, Fij representsthe sum o f each of the fuels j inmode I, using standardcoefficients to convert fuel (or
     electricity) used into carbon emissions. This equation can be used to study changes in energy use or
     emissions over time.

     Throughout the development o f the project, ASIF will be used to assess the level o f GHG emissions to be
     attained ina medium-to-longterm frame. The project i s aimed at spurring the adoption of measures that not
     only will contribute to abate air pollution, but also to mitigate climate change. However, the measures
      contemplated involve behavioral and structural changes in the transport system, that will show results
      slowly and over a relatively long-period of time. The methodology will help build sound scenarios o f
      success, basedon data that will be available throughout project implementation.

     Estimated Project Impact

     At the preparatory stage, and based on the above referred methodology, some estimates on the project
      global environmental impact can be made. Basically, the approach will calculate emissions reductions
      resulting from induced changes or measures that affect modal composition, as well as types o f technology,
      as per the following equations:

              Erk= (Dijb Fijkb) - (Dijp Fijkp)
                           *               *

     Where Erk= EmissionReductions o fpollutant k
              Dijb = Distance traveled (veh-km) per year for mode Iand technology j for
              Fijb   = Factor ofEmissions for pollutant kfor mode Iandtechnologyj
              p = Project scenario
              b =Baseline scenario

      D already incorporates information on Activity (trips, length, technology, speed), andEfficiency (km/lt of
      fuel), while F includes information on the type of fuel and on the emission effects of the respective
      technology.

      For purposes of estimating the project impact inthe reductiono f C02 emissions, a preliminary estimation

.r    will be made according to the following methodology. During project preparation not only additional
      information will be incorporated into the analysis, but also it will be performed for all the other target


                                                         -88 -

pollutants (NOx, SOX, CO, NH4, and PM). Inaddition, scenarios combining measureswill also be defined
withGoCh; this will enable to estimate more realistic emission reduction scenarios.


TRAVEL OPTIMIUTION.Emissionreductions are obtained, similar to the previous components, from a
net decrease inthe use ofprivate cars. Inthis case, it is through education and associatedbehavioral change
that the trips get bundled and reduced. The experience o f a travel blending program for Sidney and
Adelaide inAustralia have shown net reductions of about 20% inthe number of car-km. For Santiago, and
at this preliminary stage we have assumed a more conservative 10% net reduction inthe number o f private
car-km. This would mean a reduction inemissions of about 340,347 tons C02 per year, equivalent to 2.9
milliontons C02 in20 years (discounted at 10%) or an accumulated 6.8 milliontons C02 at no discount.

BICYCLE USE. Inthis case, the emission reductions are obtained from a shift to a non-motorized mode of
transport. Previous studies show potential reductions inthe trips by private cars o f 3-lo%, trips which are
absorbedby trips by bicycle   .To   estimatethe reductions inemissions for Santiago, we have assumeda 3%
increase inthe use of bicycles accompanied by a 3% decrease in the number of cars-km, and 3% in the
number of taxi-km. This couldbe consideredthe long term effect, and would amount to about 126.000 tons
C02 per year, equivalent to 1.072 million tons C02 in 20 years (discounted at 10%) or an accumulated
2.52 million tons C02 at no discount. A medium term scenario, better related to the project will take into
account the number of trips, modal composition, associated technology, and associated veh-km from Las
Condes, from Providencia, and from Rufioa to the center of Santiago, as well as the trips within these
comunas and amongst them. This estimation will be performedduringproject preparation.

HYBRIDBUSES. The new rules for biddingthe routes in Santiagowill be stringent enough so that cleaner
technologies get promoted. Thus, a bus operator company can have a fleet o f vehicles combining old
emitting buses with new clean ones (hybridor CNG), as long as the minimumemission criteria are met. In
addition, the potential for emissions resulting from the particular fleet composition will be one o f the key
criteria to choose operators. It is expected that the participation o f hybridbuses will start slowly, peaking
up as long as new mandatory fleet replacements are needed. We have calculated the potential of emission
reductions o f C02 resulting from the introduction o f hybrid, comparing the hybridbuses to the baseline
technology which consists inconventional diesel buses (EPA 94 or EURO 11).Emission factors have been
obtained from previous studies in Manhattan and Mexico, aimed at comparing emissions from hybrids
(diesel electric), CNG buses and diesel-powered buses.         Results for 561 show potential C02 yearly
emission reductions of 23,516 tons. This i s equivalent to 200,597 tons C02 in 20 years (discounted at
10%) or an accumulated .709 million tons at no discount. N o effects from modal shifts or growth are
incorporated into the analysis at this stage. Basedon the data from MODEM, other factors like growth, and
specific bus route information will be incorporated into the analysis to enhance the environmental impact
assessment.

23.Schipper, L,andCeline Marie-Liliu,"Transportation and C02 Emissions:Flexingthe link-A Pathfor the
World Bank", WorldBandESSD Series, September 1999.

24.The GdanskBicycle InfrastructureProjectalso funded by GEF estimatesthat the participationof bicycle use in
the city's modalcompositioncanbe increasedfrom 1.5%to 510%. The Metro Manila UrbanTransport
IntegrationProjectestimates anincreaseinthe use of bicycle of 2-3.5%.




                                                     - 89 -

Additional Annex 14:TRANSANTIAGO Preliminaryelementsfor a new publictransport
                                                -
                                          system development
              CHILE:SustainableTransport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

1.       Changestopublic transportplan

Current extended bus routes that runfrom one end of the city to the other will be replaced by a network of
trunk routesand feederlines, which will complementthe metro networkto beextended.

These systems would run on a graded and integrated fare structure, operatedby means o f a magnetic ticket
or smart card (preferably contact-less) and automatic fare collection devices.

The interchange between one mode of transport to another requires the creation o f a series of transfer
stationsto facilitate passenger boarding particularly inintersections with heavy traffic o f different modes of
public transport. (To accommodate the high concentration and constant flow o f people, these transfer
stations could be coupled with shopping centers, converting them into clear opportunities for private
investment).

The new route network would keep public transport off the downtown triangle o f Plaza Italia to Teatinos
street and Alameda to Mapocho streets. In other words, no public transit vehicles would cross the
downtown area. Only one circulator buspreferably using electric technology would runwithin this triangle.
Several streets would be converted to pedestrian walkways. Thus, the quality o f life o f people who carry
out their activities withinthe capital city's civic and commercial center would improve substantially.

Public transportation along the Alameda-Providencia-Apoquindo corridor would be run by one
concessionaireusing electric traction vehicles operating on a fixed-schedule basis in coordination with the
Metro and on a demand-responsiveshort-distance systemduring peak hours.

2.       Change in technology in a significantproportion of thepublic transportfleet

Both interms o f construction (high quality standards) and propulsion (CNG, hybrids, or electrical), as well
as the introduction of alternative vehicle technologies such as trams, light rail, and articulated or O-Bahn
buses along several corridors. This would not only modernize the fleet but also substantially reduce the
public transport system's contribution to the pollution problem inSantiago.

3.      A change in the tenderingmethodology

For public transport services, replacing the current system of "throughout carriage concessions" (crossing
the city from one end to another) to "service area concessions" (i.e. Santiagowould be dividedinto 8 or 10
"service areas" according to existing studies on transport demand. Transport service operators would bid
for a full package o f public transport routes within a specific area along trunk roads, along Metro and
trunk line corridor feeder routes, and along shuttle routes to cover passenger demand in specific zones).
Licenses would be awarded on the basis of the provision of all necessary services, both high and low
revenue generating services (to avoid market "descreme" practices and service deterioration, similar to the
concessionsystemfor telephone services).

4.      Enterprise structurefor bus operators




                                                      - 90 -

Thorough entrepreneurship of public transport operators, mainly through tax mechanisms (from
presumptive incometo real income) and service contract obligations.

Changes in recruitment practices and training programs. Bus companies will have to pay drivers a fixed
salary.
Complete modernizationo f service infrastructure such as terminals, maintenanceshops, etc.
Exclusive operation o f service areas will allow formation o f enterprises subject to varied sources of capital
raising (i.e. stock issuance, limitedand open societies, consortia).

5.      Main changesto small vehiclepublic transport

Competitive tendering to award collective fixed taxi routes integrated preferably to mass public transport
trunk-line corridors, thus greatly reducing the competitionofthese taxis with mass transport vehicles.

Regulate taxicabs, reducing the number o f vehicles in operation and introducing a quota system in
accordance with the city's potential demand and in compliance with strict service quality and security
norms.

Infrastructure and Information Systems. All o f these changes would also produce a series o f additional
improvements in other aspects such as roads construction and passenger information systems using
state-of-the-art informationand communication technologies, etc.

6.      Main changesto other modes of transport of goods andpeople

The intermodal nature of the Plan raises the need to establish distinct and comprehensivepolicies for other
types o f urban motor vehicles. The Plan includes specific proposals regarding other modes o f people
transportation: private cars, shuttle trains, rural and inter-city buses that use urbanthoroughfares, company
buses to transport employees, school buses. A series o f proposals have also been incorporated regarding
urbanand inter-city cargo transportation.

Specific measures to reduce emissions o f air-borne pollutants from these vehicles have also been
considered, such as halting the importationinto the capital o f new light diesel vehicles, introducing stricter
controls and mandatory technical standards for cargo trucks, etc.




                                                      -91  -

AdditionalAnnex 15:Methodologyfor estimating emissionsusing MODEM and ESTRAUS
              CHILE: Sustainable Transport and Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

MODEM

These modelling tools have been developed by the Chilean Government to strengthen the local transport
planning capacity through technical instruments which, when used in combination, provides decision
makers with valuable and reliable information on the impacts of transport planning decisions on a wide
array o f issues such as air quality and landuse patterns.

Inorder to estimatethe levelofemissionsofatmosphericpollutants, MODEMis fedbyESTRAUS, which
forecasts public and private transport flows, which are then "translated" into levels o f emissions through
emission factors that are continuously updated MODEM is basedon a methodology to estimate emissions
which was developed by CONAMA ,on the basis of emission inventories for Santiago and other citiessuch
as Gran Valparaiso ,Temuco, Rancaguaand Concepcion.

MODEM is capable o f providing specific results on pollutants associated with several automotive
emissions, on an hourly, daily or annually basis, either locally or city wide. The information produced by
the system can be seen in GIs Format. The definition o f the Urban Transport Plan For Santiago was
supported by these models. MODEM was developed from October 1999 untilMarch 2000 by Universidad
de Chile, Laboratoriode Transit0 DICTUC and Catholic UniversityinSantiago.

 MODEM includes an economic valuation module, which allows to evaluate, from an economical point of
view , different environmental regulations, aiming at reducing the emission generated by the transport
sector.

The most important elements ofthe methodology to calculate emissions are the emission factors. The model
uses an array of different 1factors according to the type of source, the emission control devices and the
technologies being used. These factors are usually expressed for transport in grams per kilometre and also
depend on average speed. Following this, the system uses 111curves of emission in function of speed, to
determine emissions of seven compounds for each vehicular category.

Regarding this project ,the final analysis i s under way in order to provide the most reliable information.
Final results are expected to be available by March 2003 and will be incorporated during the appraisal
period.


ESTRAUS

ESTRAUS is a set of programs, whose first version was developed in Chile at the end o f the 80's. The
system allows to see several scenarios on urban development, constituting itself in a powerfid tool to
support strategic processes on decision making activities.

Based on the origin - destination surveys, and minimizing cost and travel time, ESTRAUS models the
generation o f trips, attraction, distribution, modal partition and allocation. The last three stages are
modeled with an algorithm of simultaneous balance that, unlike a sequential model, obtains a solution that
considersthe dynamic interaction of the three stages and gives values which reflects the situation o fbalance
among them.



                                                    - 92 -

ESTRAUS allows to make an integral analysis of the urban transport system, modeling to every available
way and all types of users. At the same time, it provides a great flexibility inthe levels with desegregation
of spaces, particularly for the project evaluation of limited influence (i.e. public railway networks public,
etc.), which requires a fine zoning process. ESTRAUS has been used inthe modeling o f UTS in Santiago
with 264 and 535 zones, and also inValparaiso and Viiia delMar, with 200 zones.

Model ESTRAUSconsists of four sub models:

e        Socioeconomic: Itpredicts variables related to the systemo f activities.

e        Generation and attraction: Fromthe previous sub model, for several scenarioso f urban
development, it predicts the generationand attraction o f trips for eachone o fthe zones inwhich they
subdividethe are o f study.

e        Of simultaneous balance: Itjointly solves the distribution, modalpartition and allocation oftrips
to severalnetworks o fpublic and private transport, considering interactions between modesthat use a
common infrastructure.

e        Of economic evaluation: Itmakesanalysisbenefit-cost by meanso f calculation o fthe social net
benefit, considering the willingnessto pay, the benefitofthe operators, the investmentsand the operation
costs, the calculation o f the benefits through the savings ofphysicaltime and resources, and costs like the
value of the investments.




                                                      - 93 -

     Additional Annex 16: Review Of "Project Concept Development:Chile: Sustainable
                                  TransportAnd Air Quality For Santiago
                 CHILE:SustainableTransportand Air Qualityfor Santiago (GEF)

                                                     REVIEWOF
     "PROJECT CONCEPTDEVELOPMENT:CHILE: SUSTAINABLETRANSPORTAND
                                     AIR QUALITYFOR SANTIAGO"

                                                 Project ID PO73985
                                            Global Environment Facility
                                                   The World Bank

                                                  Mark A.BY  Delucchi
                                                    Does Research
                                              5029 Vista del Or0 Way
                                                 Fair Oaks, CA 95628
                                                    (916) 989-5566
                                              madelucchi@ucdavis.edu

                                                          and
                                                  ResearchScientist
                                        Institute of Transportation Studies
                                               UniversityofCalifornia
                                                  Davis, CA 95616

                                                 December 16,2002


    The format ofmyreview
    In the following, Irefer to page numbers in the 45-page "project concept document" (PCD)
    (dated December 8,2002) Ireceivedvia e-mail.

    Generaleditorialcomment
    Becausethe PCD is not yet finished, Ihavenot botheredto make any specific editorial comments.
    Some obvious general editorial comments: the final document ought to have a table o f contents,
    anacronym list, anduniformfont andformatting style.

    Generalcomments
    Allowing that the project description i sjust a draR, it is pretty good at this stage. There i s reasonably good
    background information. Most ofthe proposed components are adequately described ,appropriate, and
    reasonably likely to be at leastpartially effective. Some general ways to improve the proposal:

    An outline or introduction or overview at the beginningwould be helpful,

*   There i s some confusing repetitionof information inseveral sections, particularly inpp. 6-9 vs. 10-19.


                                                         - 94 -

      Ifyouhaven't already, youmightwant to takealookat therecentreport called:

               Transportationin DevelopingCountries:GreenhouseGas Scenariosfor Chile,by Raul
               ORyan (University of Chile) et al., Pew Center of GlobalClimate Change, Arlington,
               Virginia, August (2002). www.pewclimte.org.

      Response/All the abovepoints have been taken in to accountfor thefinal version of the PCD. O'Ryan is
      one of the local consultants hired under the PDF-b component to evaluate technological options.

      This report presentsa lot ofgoodbackground informationontransportation andrelatedproblems in
      Santiago (similar to what you present, but more extensive), and then develops a high-GHGand a low-GHG
      emissions scenario for transportation inSantiago. Some o fthe measures considered are similar to the ones
      you propose, but some are different.

      You mightwant to consider additional GHG- and pollution-reduction measures. Your proposed
rr    components to do not include reducing the fuel use per mile of passengervehicles, or switching from
      gasoline or diesel to low-carbon, low-emissions fuel. One often overlooked but very effective way to reduce
      fuel use per mile is to facilitate the use o f mini-cars, such as are popular inJapan. For safety reasons,
      mini-cars should be segregated from conventional, heavy, high-speedvehicles. This requires careful
      land-use planning and transportation-infrastructure design, but these already are general components o f
      your proposal.

      Response/ Theproject contemplates the analysis of emerging technologies with better fuel consumption
      rates (Hybrids). Also it is decided that, with PTUS implementation in 2005, all the buses circulating in
      Santiago will be Buses complying with the Environmental Standard Euro 111and the Diesel, in the
      metropolitan region to be equal or less than 50ppm of sulfur content.


      Similarly, you might want to look at the freight sector. According to the O'Ryan et al. (2002) report cited
      above, 35-40% oftotal C02 emissions from transportation inChile come from the freight sector, with
      nearly a quarter o f the total coming from freight trucks alone. Evenifone considers Santiago alone, freight
      transport accounts for on the order of 10%o f C02 emissions from transport. Your proposaldoes not
      address the freight sector at all, and so misses altogether the chanceto reduce the significant emissions
      from the sector. Shiftingfreight from trucks to rail can reduce GHG emission per ton-mile by about 75%.
      Convertingdiesel trucks to natural gas can immediately reduce PMand NOx emissions, albeit not GHG
      emissions.

     ResponsdAs theproject states the GEF involvement aims at supporting the implementation of the
      PTUS with its main objective of reorganizing the Public Transport in Santiago. Thefreight sector its not
      being considered at this stage.

      Finally, you ought to at least discuss vehicle taxes, fuel taxes, and parking charges and controls as
      additional measures designedto induce people to use alternatives to single-passenger automobiles. Parking
      controls or parking chargeshave been shown to be particularly effective at reducing single-passenger
      commutingby automobile.




                                                             - 95 -

ResponsdAll these measures will be discussed in more detail during the nextphase of theproject and
with the implementation of the components allocated under the Traffic Calming Measures.

Itwould be niceifyou couldmake preliminaryestimatesofthe GHG-emission impactsofall ofthe
components, and then present them ina single table, along with the component costs. This would give GEF
an idea o fthe cost-effectiveness o f its investments.

Response/ The impact of the measures included in theproject are not always comparable in terms of
reduced GHG emissions, as they differ very much in scope, and implementation timeframe. Also, most
measures depend on the degree of stakeholder participation, as they are indirect, aimed at removing
barriers, not at directly removing GHG emissions.

Giventhat the bus demonstrationprogramis the most costly component ofproposedproject and also
arguably the most pertinent to the GEF, there should be a more extensive technical discussion of the
technology, operation, costs, and expectedemissionsbenefits o f the program. There is by now sufficient
actual experiencewith or good simulation of these technologies to support a more in-depth discussion of
what the project intends to do and what benefits it expects. Inthis regards, the discussion of CNG and
hybridbuses wouldbenefit from the recentand comprehensivebook onbus systems by the IEA:

         Bus Systemsfor the Future, International Energy Agency, Organization for Economic
         Cooperation and Development, Paris, France (2002).

The book discusses hybrid-electric buses, fuel-cell buses, CNG vs. diesel, and other fuels and technologies,
and has case studies for cities Indonesia, Bangladesh, Brazil, India, and Mexico.

Response1 Theproject team has already taken conceptsfrom this book andfrom the experience executed
in New York with Hybrid Buses. Also, the hybrid technology to be tested is Brazilian. The case of Mexico
has been developed inparallel. A more detailed technical discussion will be added to the PAD.

The discussions o froad-pricing and land-use-planning measures should be a little more informedby the
very large literature on these subjects. Major transportation journals periodically have special issues
devoted to these topics; see for example the recent issue of TransportPolicy devoted to roadpricing
(Volume 9, pp. 175 --,2002). The analysis of the interaction between landuse and transportation i s
particularly complex, and not usefulreducedto correlations between density and vehicle ownership or use.

Response/ This has been revised by the Project Team and more information has been added to thefinal
PCD.During appraisal, additional information will be added as needed.

The strategic environmental assessment, travel harmonization, anddecontamination bondcomponentsare
too rudimentary at this point. They should be elaborated more.

Response/ Thesecomponents were developed in more detail on thefinal PCD, and will be complemented
during appraisal.

Finally, some of the discussionso f necessary institutional changes and interactions among agencies and
between the public andprivate sector ought to be more clearly elaborated.

Response/ Thesepoints are more discussedduring the Final PCD. Also during the appraisal phase,



                                                      - 96 -

e




     these will be more discussion in more detail

     Specificcommentspage by page

     p. 2., KeyPerformance Indicators. Ialways havetrouble withthis section ofGEF proposals (!). Iassume
     that what GEF wants are indices that measurethe extent to which project objectives are attained. Ifso, then
     the first problemwith your list i s that you have expressedmost o f the "indicators" as desired outcomes
     (e.g., "non motorizedtransport share of total trips increased") rather than as measures related to program
     objectives (e.g., measures of modal share, which are relatedto the objective of curbing the use of private
     automobile). Second, it i s not clear how items 2.1 iii,2.1 v, and 2.2 iiiare to be expressedas measurable
     indices.

     Response/ Thisnotes have been corrected on thefinal document of the PCD. Both indicators ofproject
     (long-term) and of process (short term)success have been added.

     p. 2-3, part B1. The backgroundfor this sectionneeds to bebetter developed. For example, tell us more
     about the CAS -what it is, and why it is pertinent here.
.-   Response/ This notes have been corrected on thefinal document of the PCD

     p. 3. section 2. Give more background onthe transport system andtravel characteristics. The O'Ryan et al.
     (2002) report referenced above has good information for this.

     Response/ This notes have been complemented on thefinal PCD

     p. 3, bottom. The secondto the last sentence is unclear (syntax muddled; what is a "most preventive
     action?).

     Response/ This notes have been corrected on thefinal PCD

     p. 4, top. I s PMlO a "major precursor for the formation ofPM2.5?" Regarding footnote 3 (ozone), recent
     work has indicatedthat the black carbon component o f PM2.5 contributes significantly too global
     warming; see for example:

              M.Z.Jacobson, "Strong Radiative HeatingDueto the MixingStateof Black Carbonin
              Atmospheric Aerosols," Nature 409: 695-697(2001).

     Response/ This notes have been corrected editedproperly. Wehave also noted the contribution of

e    tropospheric ozone to global warming

     p. 4, secondparagraph: See also:

               J. D. Ortuzar andG. Rodriguez, "Valuing reductionsinenvironmentalpollution ina
              residentiallocationcontext," Trunsporfufion ResearchPurf D 7 407-427 (2002).

     Response/More information has been included on thefinal PCD. Ortwar has been contracted as
     consultantfor thepreparatory studies (PDF-B)




                                                          - 97 -

      p. 4, bottomhalf. Again, the O'Ryan et al. (2002) report has an expandeddiscussion ofthe institutional
      situation.

     Response/More information has been included on thefinal PCD.

     p. 5, "Objectives o fthe Plan," bullet 5. There isno conceivableway that the PTUS will reduceemissions
      of "global pollutants" by 70% compared with the current situation. Indeed, O'Ryan et al. (2002) show that
      even ina "low" GHG emissions scenario, emissionsof GHGsare still likely to increase, albeit at a lower
r.    rate than inthe "high" GHGemissions scenario.

     Response/ It was an error in the text that has been corrected. It refers to local contaminants from
      motorized transport.

     p. 6, section 3, first paragraph. It is not true that all measures designedto mitigate urban air pollution will
     also mitigate climate change. For example, retrofitting dirty diesel buses to burn CNG will reduce
      emissions o f P M andNOx, but not emissions o f GHGs.

     Response/We agree. Theproject aims atfinding less intensive and more fuel efficient technologies to
      reduce emissions of GHG

       p. 7, fn 7. Actually, Idon't think assumingan increaseof 2 percentagepoints for the bicycle modalshare
      i s "conservative". Inthe U. S. anyway, that would be a huge increase for a major city.

     Response/ Agreed, we change the qualijkation as it was. Recent studies have shown that, shares on
     modes of transportation can change up to 3% as seen in Bogotd, city where 270 KM of bikeways will be
      in place shortly. The estimative presented on the project are based on conservatives assumption of the
     changes that might takeplace in Santiago with the construction of the I 9 Kilometersfunded by GEFand
     20 more Kilometers funded by the private sector. Another aspect here is the involvement on the civil

r.   society and NGO's on the design process, sofar these groups have showed a great attitude towards the
      implementation of these components, and will result on the success and the increase of the expected
     results.

     p. 7, Modernizing the bus system. This is one ofthe most feasible and significant measuresinthe whole
     project, and so should be elaboratedmore fully. The TEA book cited above couldprovide ideason how to
     elaboratethis section. [Note: Isee that there is more elaboration inPart C. Perhaps you should combine the
     two section-this one with the bits from Part C -- to avoid confusing disjointedness.)

     Response/Thedocument has been improved to avoid duplication. Additional information on the Testing
     protocol will be added to the PAD.

     p. 7,part (b), busreform, andp. 44, Annex VI. The busreforms should be explainedinmore details. (Or
      else this section should be combined with the similar section from Part C.) Since results from MODEMand
     ESTRAUS are going to beusedinthe GEFproject to evaluate the impacts o f the bus reforms, there should
     be a better write up of these models. Inparticular, we needmore informationon the ESTRAUS model.

     Response/Although thefinal report on the detailsfor the new system is still beingproduced, we have
     added an annex with the key elements of the reform. During appraisal this information will be updated.

     pp. 7-8, part (c). This section shouldbe combinedwiththe "bus renewal" section from Part C. Inany


                                                           - 98 -

event, Idon't follow the reasoninghere. Are you suggesting that the buses displacedby the EPA 94 buses
can either be scrapped, or else deployed incompletely new routes that would serve completely new trips
which inthe alternative (scrapping ofthe buses) would not exist? The latter i s completely improbable. If
the oldbuses are used inother places, they might shift the modal split a bit, and might even generatesome
new net travel, but it i s impossible that all the trips on the old buses would benet "new" trips inthe final
transportation equilibrium.

Response/The reasoning is to avoid that all displaced busesfrom Santiago simply co-exist with much
older equipment in other cities. Theprogram provides an opportunity to not only renew thepublic
transportfleet in Santiago, but also in other cities.

p. 8 (a) school location. What mechanismwill change the location ofthe schools?Legislation? Incentives?
This section here is too spartanto beofuse. Isuggest dropping it and referring the readerto the discussion
o f school location inPart C.

Response/ The document has been modijied to reflect the contribution of theproject, which will be the
assessment of opportunities to coordinateschool zoning policies with sustainable transport.

p. 8 (b) central ring.What simulation models were usedto determine the effects ofthis (component?
MEPLAN?Inany event, more details of the proposed simulation and evaluation methods are needed,
because this is simultaneously one ofthe most potentially important long-term actions, and also the most
difficult to model.

Response/ The model used is MUSSA (http://www.mussa.cl/) ,which is a recent developed land
management model tool developed by Chilean authorities. More details have been added to the
document.

p. 8 (c) housing policy. Ibelieve that the there are a lot moreenergy and emissions-relevantdifferences
between infilland peripheral development thanjust the average length of trips. Withintransportation alone,
one has to consider mode choice, destination choice, numbero f trips, and more. But there are
non-transportation effects, too, relatedto heating and cooling, infrastructure, and telecommunications. I
recallreading at some point that not all of these differences favor infillover peripheral development, which,
ifcorrect, meansthat acomprehensivemodelofmulti-sector energyuse, transportation, landuse, and
more, i s neededto properly tease out all o fthe effects. Furthermore, housing location i s not the only
pertinent planning variable; one can and should simultaneously plan for the locationof industry, commerce,
services, and infrastructure. Put another way, one shouldn't compare peripheral with infillhousing
development; rather, one should compare two optimally designed complete alternatives, one featuring
intelligent multi-modal peripheral development, the other featuring central-city infill.Although this greatly
complicates the comparison, it i s realistic, and at least ought to be considered.

Response/Comments taken and will be incorporated into TOR during appraisal


p. 8 (d) city center. Howwill measures suchas traffic calming reduce trips by a full 50% (which really is
quite a lot)? And what happensto any trips no longer made by car inthe city center?Do some o f themjust
go elsewhere? [I   see that there i s a bit more elaboration inPart C. The two sections should be combined.]

Response/Text has been corrected; the reduction of 50% had been included as hypothetical scenario to
show relevance of GHGemission reductions associated with the measure. More specijk information will


                                                         - 99 -

 be added on this sub-component during appraisal.

 p. 8-9 roadpricing. There is no doubt that one can manipulateprices insuch a way as to discouragepeople
to use cars, and probably even reduce GHGemissions. This does not mean, however, that such a scheme is
 economically "rational" inthe sense of maximizing social welfare. Indeed, a truly "rational" pricing scheme
requires long-run marginal social-cost everywhere inthe society -notjust on cars, not evenjust on all
transport modes, buteverywhere (although with limited substitution between transportation and
non-transportation sectors, it might be sufficientjust to price all transportation modes correctly). You must
price buses, trains, public infrastructure -everything-correctly, accounting for pollution, infrastructure
 (or congestion) costs, accident costs, service costs, and so on. As part of doing this, you must estimate full
 lifecycle emissions for public transportation operation, including the metro.

For details on my arguments about pricing, see:

          M.A. Delucchi"Should We Try to Getthe PricesRight?," Access, Number 16,
          University of California Transportation Center, Berkeley, pp. 14-21, Spring (2000).

  For lifecycle GHG analysis applied to transportation options inChile, see the O'Ryan et al. (2002) report
mentioned above.

You ought to consider a broader set of economic/pricingmeasures. Inparticular, measuresthat affect the
cost and availability ofparking can have a dramatic impact mode choice. (See any number of articles by
Error!Bookmarknot defined. ofUCLA.)

This section should be combined with the similar section inPart C.

Response/ Weagree with this statement, and considerations will be added to TOR development during
appraisal.

p. 9, strategic assessment. This is a worthy but probably overly ambitious goal. Such a unified suite of
models is difficult to achieve. Isuggest either devoting a lot more serious attention to this, or dropping it
altogether.

Response/ For the development of the PTUS the introduction of the environmental variable is a priority
at the government level. Not only the introduction of climatefriendly measures arepursued, it also looks
for a more comprehensive approach on how to integrate development and environment, seen as the
perspective of the transportation sector. Other changes have been introduced on thefinal PCD.

p. 9, travel harmonization. What exactly is this? What are the Australian examples? Ifthis really is a
cost-effective way to reduce GHGemissions, it should be elaboratedupon.

Response/ Experience not only in Australia but is Santiago itself has shown that rationalization of trips
always results in a reduction of trips length and more efficient trips. This can be achieved by education
certain groups of thepopulation and introducing these measures as a sustainable plan. The concept has
even beenpatented as "Travel Blending      ".

p. 9, decontamination bonds. Isthis apropositionto study apossible C02 emissions trading scheme
(incorporated into an existing emissions trading scheme for urbanair pollutants)? Ifso, you needto say
more than "we will study" this. A lot has beenwritten about this already, and you should acknowledge this


                                                      -100-

and give us a better idea of how you might implement the scheme and what you mightexpect fiom it, with
particular attention to the institutional, economic, and industrialcharacteristics o f Santiago. An example o f
recent literature is:

          International Energy Agency, International Emission Trading,from Concept to Reality,
          Organizationfor Economic Cooperation andDevelopment, Paris, France (2001).

Response/ Comments taken and text improved. Additional information will be added during appraisal.

p. 10, promotionof bicycle use. Onwhat basis do you expect that significant numbers o fpeople who own
cars will choose to ride bicycles instead?Iunderstandwhy you target areas of highcar ownership -
becauseo fthe theoreticalpotential to eliminate a lot of car pollution -but against this theoretical potential
one must recognize that the propensity to ridebicycles is a decreasing fbction o f wealth, vehicle
ownership, and the qualityo fthe roadnetwork for cars. Maybe it i s more socially beneficial to provide
infrastructure insupport o f cycling where it is more of a necessarymode rather than a luxurymode.
Moreover, as far as Iknow, the only safety "strategy" that really makes cyclists feel secure (and hence has
any chance o f attracting people away from cars) i s complete grade separation of cars and bicycles. After
this, what seemsto matter next isthe provisionofconvenient, safebicycle parkingor storage, and facilities
for changing clothes. Isuspect that next to these, educational campaigns and the like accomplish very little.
(Of course, they cost relatively little, too...)

Response/On regards to this component a comprehensiveplan is under developmentfunded by the GEF
under the PDF-b Studies.Afinal outcome of this study will be ready at mid March 2003, which will be
added to the PAD during appraisal and certainly to develop TORS.Along with building a bikeway
network, with high specifications (defined as an investment of I00.000per kilometer built), aplan to
address issues as safety and security are alsopart of the Project. Specific measures are been identified
and on thefinal PCD and the appraisal stage all these information will be availablefor analysis and
development. The experiences in Bogota and Manila have shown that an increased use of bicycles in the
order of 1.53% of trips ispossible under comprehensive schemes (Le.promotion, good infrastructure,
safe@).

p.11-13, busprogram. See my comments above. Also, you ought to consider usinga Euro V bus, because
these can have emissionsbenefits similar to those o f CNG(see the IEAbus report mentioned above). The
discussiono f emissionstesting i s good, but there is nothing said about what costs are going to be estimated
and how. Do you intendto project lifecycle capital plus operating costs, under some future conditions? If
so, tell us more about the expectedmethods and data o fthe analysis.

Response/ Currently, legislation in Chile requires Euro IIbuses; with the implementation of PTUS it
has been decided that all the new buses have to comply with Euro IIIstandards. Buses with other
enhancepollution control systems are not available in the countiy, nor it is thefuel. On the economical
analysis, the testprotocolfor the Bus Test currently under development contemplates the analysis of the
economical variable, which is consistent with the requirements of the abovepoint. The text has been
improved to reflect this.


p. 12, busreform. This section should be mergedwith the similar section earlier inthe report (p 7, part (b),
so that all o f the informationi s inone place. As it stands now, the earlier section has insufficient
background, andthis section i s missingsome useful bits from the earlier section.



                                                      - 101-

     Response/Text improved to reflect comments.

     p. 12-13, renewal of bus fleet. Again, this sectionshouldbe combined withthe similar earlier section (pp.
      7-8, part (c)). See my commentson that section.

     Response/Sections have been combined.

     pp. 13-14, central ring. See my commentsonthe similar section earlier inthe report (p. 8 (d) city center).
      Also, the order o f sectionshere should follow the order used earlier ("central ring" after "school location"),
.r    unless the sections are merged (which is the best idea).

     Response/This has changed signiJicantly since thefirst draft. Comments have been taken into account in
      thefinal version of the PCD.

     p. 14-15, school location. The discussionof school location seems excessiveand out ofproportionto the
      GHG-reduction benefits that it is likely to provide. Itwould benice to have some indication o f the likely
     magnitude of the benefits.

     Response/This has changed significantly since thefirst draft. All comments have been included on the
     final version of thePCD.

     p. 15, housing policy. See mycommentsonthe similar section earlier inthe report (p. 8 (c), housing
     policy).

     Response/Comments addressedabove.

     p. 15, fns. 13 and 15. Eliminate the duplicate.

     Response/Ok, Will do this of thefinal version of the PCD

     p. 16, city center. See my commentsonthe similar section earlier inthe report (p. 8 (d), city center.) The
     two sections should be combined.

     Response/nis has changed significantly since thefirst draft.All comments considered on thefinal
      version of the PCD.

     pp. 16-17 roadpricing. See my comments onthe similar section earlier inthe report (p. 8-9 roadpricing).
      Refer also to the recent issue of TransportPolicy (volume 9, pp. 175 --,(2002)) on roadpricing. The
      sections ought to be combined.

     Response/ Weagree with this statement, and the changes are reflected on thefinal PCD

     p.17, strategic assessment. See my comments onthe similar section earlier inthe report (p. 9 strategic
     assessment). The sections ought to be combined.

     Response/Sections combined.

     pp. 17-18, travel harmonization. See my comments onthe similar section earlier inthe report (p.9 travel
      harmonization). The sections ought to be combined.


                                                          - 102-

Response/Sections combined.

p. 18, decontamination bonds. See mycommentson the similar sectionearlier inthe report (p.9
decontamination bonds). The sectionsought to be combined.

Response/Sections combined.

p. 19,2.1. What is the nature ofthe reformthat is to be sought here?

Response/PTUS implementation, in particular the restructure of thepublic transport system.

p. 19,2.2. What legislative changes specifically are needed?

Response/ Roadpricingprinciples.

p. 21, D.Project Rationale. Seemy"general comments" at the beginning ofthis review. A specific question
here: why were fuel-cell buses rejected?The GEF i s interestedinthem, and the O'Ryan et al. (2002) report
on sustainabletransportation inChile includes them inits analysis.

Response/From theperspective of project implementation and economical analysis on the
implementation of the PTUS,fuel cell buses are not being considered due to its high capital cost and the
willing of the government. Also, GEF has stopped considering this option.

pp. 21-22, relatedprojects. Ijust skimmedthis section.

Response/ This has been completed on thejnal version of the PCD

p. 24, bikeway construction. Iagree withthis (see mycomments above. p. 10promotionofbicycleuse),
but wonder why it is imagined that "cultural change" is likelyto be effective, or evenpossible. Idon't know
o f any evidencethat this sort of enlightenment campaign can do anything to overcome the effects o fwealth
and concems about safety and convenience.

Response/ See commentsabove.

p. 26-28. These sections seemincomplete. Iskimmed them.

Response/ This has been completed on thejnal version of the PCD.

p. 29, travelharmonization. Iagree that once a person becomesmore informed, he or she will make
decisions on the basis o ftheir new enlightenment rather thantheir previous ignorance. But eachnew
generation will have to be educatedinorder for the behavior to be sustainedacross generations.

Response/ Thefinal version of the PCD contains a more detailed scope of this component.

p. 29, bicycle use. What do you meanwhen you say that "this component is likely to sustainitselfafter
completionof the GEF project".

Response/ Once theproject is implemented, a communication andpromotion campaign will have taken


                                                   - 103-

place, and the modal shift will be expected.Normally,potential bikers thatface favorable conditions will
maintain theirpreferences.

p. 29, hybridbuses. There are two other key andrelatedfactors: economic and operational viability ofthe
new systems. They won't beexpandedor evensustainedfor long ifthey prove too costly or difficult to
operate.

Response/ Weare aware of the situation, this is the main reasonfor to have a Lab Testand a Field test,
in order to evaluate the operational and capital cost of the technologies under evaluation.

p. 30, rationalizationoftrips. Iwould addthat the sustainability ofland-usepatterns depends greatly onthe
permanenceandeffectiveness o fthe policies and economic forces that govern landuse. And here Ithink is
a weakness inthis proposal: Ibelieve that strong central planning i s neededto ensure sustainable land
development, and Ididnot see any indicationthat this sort of planningwill bepursuedinSantiago.

Response/ Thefinal version of the PCD contains a more detailed scope of this component.

p. 30-31.Ithink that the potential problems withthe bicycle component are serious. Puttingbicycleroutes
inhigh-densitycorridors, inorder to maximizevisibility, isnot likely to work ifthe bicycles must mix in
any way with road traffic.

Response/l%e designs will avoid thatpotential mix and willfavor complete segregation over pavement.
Final designs will be appended to the PAD.

p. 31, roadpricing. There may be a bit ofwishfbl thinkinghere, but perhapsthat is OK!

Response/ Weagree

pp. 32-36, Annex I. secondcolumn should be called "performance indicators or generalevaluation
                     The
guidelines," and init should have indicators or guidelines or measures but not desired outcomes.

Response/Theseare the guidelinesfor PCD development at the WorldBank

The right-hand columns are not labeled clearly. It looks like what you have inthe rightmost columns are
simply goals. Isuggest callingthemthat.

Response/ This has been taken care at the final version of the PCD

pp. 39-41, Annex IV. The emission factors, Fij, should not be end-use carbon emission factors, but rather
fbll fbel-cycle COZequivalent emissions. Inother words, one must consider all the linkedsources inthe
transportation fbel and vehicle lifecycle (not just end use), and all GHGs, notjust C02. The analysis must
be done for all modes, includingthe metro, intercity trains, andthe like. An application ofthis full fbelcycle
analysis to transportation scenarios inChile i s given inthe O'Ryan et al. (2002) mentionedabove.

Response/Allfactors considered are IPCC-consistent and take into accountfull fuel-cycle emissions.I n
any case, all calculations will be checkedduring appraisal.

pp. 42-43, Annex V. This is useful information.
    ,




                                                    - 104-

p. 44, Annex VI. See my comment above, p. 7, part (b), busreform.

Response/see above




                                               - 105-




