                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                              Report No: AC188
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08/01/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CHILE                                              Project ID: P073985
Project: Sustainable Transport and Air Quality for          Task Team Leader: Juan Lopez-Silva
Santiago (GEF)
Authorized to Appraise Date: August 29, 2003                IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 15, 2003                             IDA Amount ($m):
                                                            Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 6.98
Managing Unit: LCSEN                                        Sector: Roads and highways (50%); Sub-national
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)          government administration (50%)
Status: Lending                                             Theme: Climate change (P); Civic engagement,
                                                            participation and community driven development (P)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
1.1.    To help reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) from ground transport in Santiago through a promotion
of a long-term modal shift to more efficient and less polluting forms of transport, and adoption of
sustainable low-GHG transport measures. To that end, the project will support the implementation of the
2000-2010 Urban Transport Plan for Santiago (TRANSANTIAGO, formerly known as PTUS), a
comprehensive multi-sector plan, which is consistent with the overall objectives of the GEF operational
program on sustainable transport. The plan's specific objectives are to (i) maintain share of public
transport (60% of total trips); (ii) promote rational management of transport demand, internalizing all
costs from car travel; (iii) promote land-use policies that take into account environmental and transport
dimensions helping reduce the average trip length; (iv) promote better coordination between agencies
dealing with transport related policies and issues; and (v) reduce air pollution from public transport by
70% (from 2000 levels). A major outcome of TRANSANTIAGO will be the restructuring of the city's
transport system starting in 2005; the system of bus routes and the concession process will be modified,
allowing substantial gains in efficiency and profitability for the bus operators. Section B.2 and Annex V
provide additional information about the plan's genesis, programs, and preliminary measures.

1.2. To help improve Santiago's air quality, through reducing emissions of air pollutants like SOx, CO,
PM, and NOx (which together with VOCs contribute to the formation of smog or tropospheric ozone
(O3)).

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The project will strive to accelerate the implementation of TRANSANTIAGO, by concentrating on 7
components, each one contributing to abate GHG emissions with different degrees of intensity, and with
different implementation periods. Preparatory studies under GEF funding (PDF-B) have helped specify
the activities under certain components.

                                                      2
                                                                                                        ISDS




1.1     Promotion of bicycle use

The objective of this pilot program is to promote the use of bicycles as a mode of transport and aims at
diverting travelers from motorized modes, especially private cars, thereby having a direct effect in
reducing GHG emissions, as less fuel would be burnt per traveled km.

The project will include (a) 21.94 km of GEF-funded bikeways connecting the Comunas of Santiago,
Providencia, and Ñuñoa ; (b) 21.2 Km of bikeways about to be built in the same Comunas with
government funding and 11.6 Km recently built or currently under construction, (c) the implementation
of a promotional strategy aiming at changing travel behavior to achieve a sustainable modal shift to
bicycles; (d) a safety strategy to minimize bicycle accidents and to maximize personal security, and (e) a
process to monitor and evalute the results of the pilot program.. As the primary aim is to reduce air
pollution and GHG emissions, the component targets existing and potential car users ­ the number of
which is rapidly increasing with generally favorable economic growth ­ and thus focuses on zones with
relatively high car ownership; this in contrast to similar bikeway programs elsewhere, such as Lima,
which primarily address the transport needs of the low-income population. On the other hand, the project
will help catalyze future investments and raise bicycle use in other parts of the city.


1.2     Modernizing the bus system

This component will support the development of the new bus system for Santiago, which will not only
provide a more efficient use of buses (reducing bus fleet, higher bus occupancy, and higher average
speed), but also will provide an opportunity to renew the bus fleet both at the city level (through the
introduction of proven clean bus technologies), and at the national level. The component is structured in
3 sub-components:

1.2.1 Technical assistance for evaluating the economic and environmental impact of clean
technologies for buses

This component will provide technical assistance to compare technical and environmental performance
and associated costs of hybrid-electric buses with CNG and diesel ones. The project will allow the
economic and environmental evaluation of the potential introduction of the hybrid diesel-electric
technology to Santiago's public bus fleet. As emissions reduction benefits and related costs will be
determined, regulators will have the relevant information needed for the establishment of more stringent
emission standards for Santiago. CGTS is in the process of allocating the contracts for bus operation
along the major Santiago corridors under a newly restructured public transport system; in this respect, the
outcomes from this project will allow the regulators to determine emission standards requiring operators
can be obliged to have bus fleets with a mix of conventional and cleaner vehicles.

1.2.2 Implementation framework for bus reform

In order to complement the building of segregated busways, , technical assistance under this component
will support a review of management and business organization measures that are required to effectively
operate the new corridor infrastructure, including a system of business organization, the concessions for
specific bus line operations, and the structuring of integrated fares. It will also fund the formulation of a
program to retrain existing bus drivers that would leave the public transport business, and to assist them
in inserting them in other sectors of the economy.          Moreover, this component will support the
establishment of a framework to monitor the environmental, social and operational effects of the new
system.

                                                       3
                                                                                                          ISDS



1.2.3 Renewal of the bus fleet

The project will finance a strategic study to define ways of synchronizing and coordinating the removal
of "not-so-old" buses from the streets of Santiago, which will be displaced by the new articulated EURO
III. buses which will run in the trunk lanes. The study will identify options for ensuring a national
modernization of the bus fleet to rationalize public transport capacity.

1.3      Assessment of land-use incentives and policies to reduce motorized travel

This component aims at rationalizing the location of centers of activity, reducing trip lengths, improving
traffic flows, and promoting modal shift. The component will be structured in 3 sub-components:

1.3.1 Developing the Central Ring of Santiago (Anillo Central)

The project will fund studies to calculate the environmental impacts of urban development policies
aiming at spurring the development of housing projects located on the Anillo Central, based on potential
policy options. Thus, the study will help decision-makers to better evaluate the development of currently
available central sites according to the expected impact on transport, air pollution and global warming.

1.3.2 School Location

The GEF grant will fund studies to assess the economic and environmental impact of locating new school
facilities so that the average school related trip length can be reduced. This is key now that the full school
day (Jornada Escolar Completa or JEC) is being established, requiring schools to expand to attend a
double student load before 2010 nationwide. In addition to this, secondary education was recently made
compulsory, which further increased higher capacity requirements.

1.3.3 Housing Policy

The project will provide technical assistance to the authorities in charge of housing policies and
regulations, so that the transport and environment dimensions can be better integrated into policy making.
Recommendations would be aimed at the reduction of the average trip length, and at a modal shift to less
polluting transport modes.

1.4      Improving Traffic Flows


1.4.1 Traffic Calming at City Center

This subcomponent consists of studies to identify sound traffic calming measures to reduce car traffic in
at the historic center of Santiago, including a diagnostic phase, a design phase, stakeholder consultation,
and integrating the need for GHG emission reductions into the specific engineering designs for the civil
works.

                                                       4
                                                                                                       ISDS



1.4.2 Road pricing

This component aims at reducing and rationalizing the use of private motor vehicles, by means of road or
congestion pricing measures which would internalize external costs imposed on society by car drivers.
Pricing would not only help reduce traffic volumes, but could also generate additional sources of finance
for transport improvements. The grant will fund a study to investigate the likely social, environmental
and economic effects of various forms of road pricing, the conditions under which it is likely to be
acceptable, and the best mechanism for its implementation.

1.5     Strategic environmental assessment

The project will fund advisory work to ensure coordination of sector policies, programs, and projects
(ppp) dealing with transport, urban development, and environment. To that end, the project will help
develop tools to integrate environmental management within the scope of the development of urban
transport plans and policies, including land-use pattern changes, pricing, and tariff schemes.

1.6     Travel Harmonization

The project will support a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of implementing a large scale program to
make a rational use of private cars and integration of travel modes in family groups, including the
identification of private entities interested in co-financing and/or participating in the implementation of
the overall program; and the implementation of a medium scale pilot phase. The project will draw from
the successful experience of 1997 carried out by SECTRA in Santiago for a small number of households.
The objective is to reduce travel frequency and time, based on the systematic record of travel needs and
practice. Using the private car more efficiently according to pre-established travel plans will allow
important reductions in fuel use, travel time and emissions.

1.7     Decontamination Bonds

The project will fund a study to evaluate options for promoting further local investment in sustainable
transport by integrating GHG emission reductions into the new Decontamination Bonds Program to cap
emissions in Chile. The initial setup will be focused in Santiago, considering that most of the transport
related emissions in the country are generated in the city. This program, currently being established by
CONAMA, will allow emission reductions resulting from sustainable transport measures, to compensate
emissions from existing polluters exceeding the norms, and/or from new polluters required to compensate
for adding new emissions into the system. The system has been devised to enable NOx and PM
reductions. GEF incremental support would also help raise the awareness of the opportunities for
emission off-set investments in sustainable transport, and ensure that the program can also take into
consideration the additional green house gas benefits of these investments (provide extra "credit" or
incentives for investments that include additional global benefits).

To help the system become operative, the project will provide technical assistance to assess needs and
options for including the tranport related greenhouse gas benefits into the permit clearinghouse; further
support for devising methodologies to measuring carbon reduction benefits in the transport sector;
address aspects of integrating the transport sector into proposed financial mechanisms; and studies and
awareness raising activities that promote the sustainable transport market potential. The expected result
is an impact assessment in terms of potential CO2 reductions in the transport sector, a strategy for
building a solid local carbon market; the identification of pilot sustainable transport projects; and
technical assistance support for early transport demonstration pilots

                                                        5
                                                                                                          ISDS



Components:

Promotion of Bicicle Use
Modernization of Bus System
Assesment of Land Use Incentives and policies to reduce motorized travel
Improving Traffic Flows
Strategic Environmental Assessment
Travel Harmonization
Decontamination Bonds
Project Management
Contingencies



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

This project is located in Santiago and its Metropolitan Region, Chile and will have impact in the entire
region. However, most of the components will be implemented in the central area of the city. The 21.94
Km of Bikeways will be built in the Comunas of Santiago, Providencia y Ñuñoa. The areas where the
bikeways will be build are areas where there have been previous development and human intervention.
Most of the Bikeways will be segregated from streets and walkways. Also there will not be any human
resettling activities, historical sites intervened nor construction on green areas.


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments:

The project will involve relatively minor works to insert 22 Km of bikeways into existing streets, and thus
no settlements will be affected. Nonetheless, the construction will follow construction guidelines from
SERVIU( Servicios Urbanos), along with its environmental regulation, to ensure that materials, noise, and
traffic flow get well managed. The bikeway design have been under an independent safety audit, and the
construction contract will involve an environmental assessment and management plan, along with
supervision of civil works. As to the rest of the project, there will be environmental benefits. To mitigate
these impacts, the project will follow environmental guidelines for construction prepared by SERVIU. The
field test will take place on operating routes. The rest will be studies with indirect benefits in the future.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                       Policy                                         Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                           Yes   No

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                   Yes   No

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                    Yes   No

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      Yes   No

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                  Yes   No

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                   Yes   No

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                          Yes   No

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              Yes   No

                                                      6
                                                                                                        ISDS



    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes   No

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes   No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
On the establishment of 21.94 Km of Bikeways, there will be construction works associated to this
component. An environmental management plan and its implementation guidelines will be designed to
meet the requirements of the local authorities and the project

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The project will have positive impact in the long term. This is due to the reduction of global and local
emissions, as CO2, Particles, Nox, SOx and other contaminants currently present in Santiago's
Metropolitan Area. The reduction will be directly linked to the reduction of the length of trips per person
per day and the change of mode of transportation.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.



II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
On the analysis of the construction of Bikeways there are not alternatives to the current design.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental guidelines for the development and construction of 21.94 km of Bikeways will be
followed.




II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders are, The executive Commission for Transportation in Santiago - CGTS, CONASET,
SECTRA, CONAMA, NGOs ( Ciudad Viva, Ciclistas Furiosos, others). From the preparation phase,
stakeholders have been consulted, and SECTRA's website has been used as a channel for consultation.
Also, as part of the preparation activities, two workshops to discuss the project components have had
taken place and several consultantion within the consultants approach and the stakeholders have been
taking place during project preparation.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
          in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are

                                                    7
                                                                                                 ISDS



        technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
        similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
        safeguard issues.

                                                   8
                                                                                                  ISDS




F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                          Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                             Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                    Juan Lopez-Silva                                   8/1/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                                       8/1/2003
Sector Director                      John Redwood                                       8/1/2003

