                                                Document o f
                                              The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   ReportNo. 41772-BD


                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                            PROJECTPAPER

                                                  FORAN

  EMERGENCY2007 FLOODRESTORATIONAND RECOVERYASSISTANCEPROGRAM

                                      FINANCEDTHROUGHTHE

    PROPOSEDCANCELLATIONINTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 15,800,000 (US$25MILLION
 EQUIVALENT) GRANT FROMTHE WATER SUPPLYPROGRAMPROJECT(H1010) AND
     REALLOCATIONTO THE SOCIAL INVESTMENTPROGRAMPROJECT(CR.3740)

                                                    AND

    PROPOSEDCANCELLATION INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 28,400,000 (US$45MILLION
      EQUIVALENT) CREDIT FROMTHE LOCAL GOVERNANCESUPPORT PROJECT
                                                 (CR.4193),
     THE POST-LITERACYAND CONTINUING EDUCATIONPROJECT(CR 3467), AND
               THE WATER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT(CR4359)

                                                    AND

         REALLOCATIONTO THE MUNICIPAL SERVICESPROJECT(CR. 3177) AND
                  THE RURALTRANSPORTIMPROVEMENT PROJECT(CR. 3791)


                                                     TO

                            THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                            December 21,2007




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture andRuralDevelopmentSector Unit
SouthAsiaRegion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                             Bangladesh
       Emergency 2007 FloodRestoration and RecoveryAssistance Program (FRRAP)


                                   Acronyms and Abbreviations


ADB                Asian Development Bank          NGO               Non-Governmental
AUSAID             Australian Agency for                             Organization
                   International Development       O&M               Operations and Maintenance
BWDB               Bangladesh Water                OPEC              Organization for Petroleum
                   Development Board                                 Exporting Countries
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy     PDO               Project Development Objective
DCA                Development Credit Agreement    PKSF              Palli Karma Sahayak
DFID               Department for International                      Foundation
                   Development (U.K.)              P M R             Project Monitoring Report
DMF                Disaster Management Fund        P M U             Project Management Unit
DPHE               Department o f Public Health    PO                Partner Organization
                   Engineering                     RTIP              Rural Transport Improvement
DSC               Development Support Credit                         Project
EU                EuropeanUnion                    SA                SpecialAccount
FCD               Flood Control and Drainage       SDF               Social Development Fund
FCDI              Flood Control, Drainage and      SIPP              Social Investment Program
                  Irrigation                                         Project
FMR               FinancialMonitoring Report       SOE               Statement o f Expenditure
GOB               Government of Bangladesh         SWAP              Sector Wide Approach
HNPSP             Health, Nutrition and           UN                 UnitedNations
                  Population Sector Program        VGF               Vulnerable Group Feeding
IDA               International Development        WARP0             Water Resources Planning
                  Association                                        Organization
PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy      WMIP               Water Management
                  Paper                                              Improvement Project
LG                Local Government
LGED              Local Government Engineering
                  Department
LGSP              Local Governance Support
                  Project
MOFDM             Ministryo f Food and Disaster
                  Management
MSP               Municipal Services Project
NCB               National Competitive Bidding




     Vice President                           Praful Patel
     Country Director                         Xian Zhu
     Sector Directormanager                   Constance BernardAdolfoBrizzi, SASSD
     Team Leader                              Masood Ahmad and Mohi uz Zaman Quazi, SASSD




                                                ..
                                                11

                                                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                          TABLE OFCONTENTS


      A. INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................................      1
      B.    BACKGROUND .................................................................................................................... 2
         Social, Environmental and Economic Impact ofthe Floods.......................................................                      3
         Recovery andFinancingNeeds ..................................................................................................      4
       C. The ProposedPost-FloodRecoveryApproach and Program.................................................                               5
      D. ProgramImplementation ........................................................................................................      8
         ProcurementArrangements........................................................................................................    9
         FinancialManagement Arrangements ......................................................................................            10
         Disbursement Arrangements.....................................................................................................    10
         Environmental and Social Safeguards Policies.........................................................................              11
      E. ProgramBenefits andRisks..................................................................................................         11




      ANNEXES

      ANNEX 1:Program Cost and IDAFinancingby Component.....................................................                                13
      ANNEX 2: ProgramOutcomes and Outputs................................................................................                  17
      ANNEX 3: LivelihoodRestoration ..............................................................................................         19
      ANNEX 4: DescriptionofProjectsmakingpart of2007 FRRAP...............................................                                 23




      MAPIBRD:35841




I                                                                                                                                                 I
 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
 their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                               ...
                                                               111


Country: Bangladesh                                 Sector Directormanager: Guang Zhe Chen
Project Name: Municipal Services Project            Country Director: Xian Zhu

Borrower: People's Republic o f Bangladesh
Responsible agency: Local Government Engineering Department




Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes[If applicable]

The PDO is: to improve urban environment, infrastructure and services, and, to that end, to:
(a) strengthen the institutional capacity o f selected municipalities and city corporations; (b)
improve resource allocation and fiscal discipline; and (c) support governmental efforts to
reduce urbanpoverty and improve the environmental conditions o f urban communities.

Additional financing o f $25 million will be usedfor rehabilitationo f urbanroads, bridges,
culverts, and drainage channels inflood-affected municipalities. The project development
objective will not change. The project activities will be scaled up and targets will be revised to
help address the impact o f the 2007 floods. Formal restructuring o fthe project will not beneeded.

Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? No
                                     For Additional Financing
[ 3 Loan   [XI Credit    [3 Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing $25 million
        Proposedterms: 40 years to maturity, including a grace period o f 10years

                                      Financing Plan (US$m.)
                     Source                            Local           Foreign            Total
Borrower                                                  6.3                               6.3
IBRD/IDA                                                25.0                              25.0
Others




                                                 iv

Country: Bangladesh




Borrower: People's Republic o fBangladesh
Responsible agency: Local Government Engineering Department




policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?
                   _ _                                                 oYes oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Revised project development objectives/outcomes [Ifapplicable]




                      Source                          Local    Foreign     Total
Borrower                                                5.O                 5.O
IBF2D/IDA                                              20.0                20.0
Others
Total                                                  25.0                25.0




                                                V

Country: People's Republic o f Bangladesh           Sector Directormanager: Adolfo Brizzi
Project Name: Social Investment Program             Country Director: Xian Zhu



Responsible agency: Social Development Foundation




Revised project development objectives/outcomes [Ifapplicable]

Project development objectives will not change. The objective o f the project i s to develop
effective and efficient financing and institutional arrangements for improving access to local
infrastructure and basic services through the implementation o f community-driven small-scale
infrastructure works and social assistance programs.

The additional financing o f US$25 million IDA Grant funds will support speedy recovery o f the
flood affected population, particularly the poor and vulnerable. Existingproject activities would
be expanded into neighboringdistricts with US$10 million (out o fUS$25 million) being used to
carry out livelihoodrestoration o f communities directly affected by the 2007 Floods. The
remainingUS$15 millionwould be transferred to PKSF to support 2007 Floodrestoration
activities. PKSF will administer the micro-credit program through the Disaster Management
Fund(DMF)and its PartnerOrganizations (POs) which willprovide the low interestloans to
eligible families. Project targets will be defined over next few months and project documents will
be revised accordingly, formal restructuring will not be needed.

-
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
                                     For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan    [ 3 Credit   [XIGrant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
         Total Bank financing: US$25million.
         Proposedterms:




IBRD/IDA
Others




                                                 vi


A. INTRODUCTION

1.        This memorandum submits for your approval proposed restructuring o f seven projects listed
below, including additional financing o f SDR 44,200,000 (US$70 million equivalent) to three o f the
projects (Social Investment Social Investment Program Project (Cr. 3740), Municipal Services Project
(Cr. 3177) and Rural Transport Improvement Project (Cr. 3791). The additional financing will be used to
support the Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance Program (2007 FRRAP) in
Bangladesh. These funds are made available by cancellations from four IDA Credits as shownbelow:


    CreditNameandNumber fromwhich                    Amount              CreditNameandNumberto
           Fundsare to be Cancelled                     million
                                                     Equivalent        whichFundswouldbeAllocated

  Water Supply ProgramProject, H l O l O                 25.0         Social Investment ProgramProject,
                                                                      Cr 3740
  Local Governance Support Project,
  Cr. 4193                                               20.0
                                                                      Municipal Services Project, Cr. 3177
  Post-Literacy and Continuing Education
  Project, Cr 3467                                        5.O

  Post-Literacy and Continuing Education
  Project, Cr 3467                                       12.0         Rural Transport Improvement
  Water Management Improvement Project,                               Project, Cr. 3791
  Cr 4359                                                 8.0

                        Total                            70.0

2.        The proposed restructuring o f above-referenced projects, including the additional financing,
would form part o f the larger IDA support package o f US$122.2 million for 2007 FRRAP, which also
includes US$52.2 million in funding embedded in the ongoing projects mentioned above and two other
credits (Health, Nutrition andPopulationSector Program, Cr.4052, and Primary EducationProgram11,Cr
3857. The credit closing dates o f three Credits (Cr. 3177, Cr. 3791 and Cr. 3740) will be extended to June
30, 2011. Bangladesh was hit by severe floods in 2007. The 2007 Floods directly affected over 13
million people in47 districts, caused over 1,000 deaths, affected over 2 million acres o f agricultural land,
and damaged infrastructure, social and educational facilities and private assets, including housing, crops,
livestock, and fisheries. Bank i s supporting a two part flood assistance strategy, budget support and
restoration o f infrastructure and livelihoods to help the country cope with the flood emergency. The first
part o f the strategy consisted o f a quick-disbursing US$75 million budget support operation approved by
the Board on September 27, 2007 as additional financing for the Fourth Development Support Credit.
The proposed additional financing credits (lJS$70 million) will be used for infrastructure rehabilitation
and restoration o f livelihoods under the proposed Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery
Assistance Program (2007 FRRAP). In addition, US$52.2 million are made available from seven
ongoing credits for the Program. The total estimated cost o f FRRAP i s about US$152.4 million with IDA
credit o f US122.2 million.

3.        The Emergency 2007 FRRAP consists o f two components: (A) infrastructure rehabilitation
covering (i)rehabilitation o f secondary, regional, and rural roads, (ii)    reconstruction o f bridges and
culverts (iii) rehabilitationo f urban roads, bridges and culverts, and drainage facilities in municipalities,
(iv)rehabilitationofhealthfacilities, (v)rehabilitationo f flood embankments, flood control and drainage,
and irrigation schemes, (vi) rehabilitation o f water supply and sanitation facilities, and (B) livelihood

restoration through low interest loans and community projects. The flood restoration works will support
sectors where the Bank i s currently financing regular investments. Concerned Government o f Bangladesh
(GOB) line ministries and departments will be accountable for their respective infrastructure
rehabilitation within the framework o f ongoing projects.         This ensures overall rapid and effective
implementation without major amendments to each project design.



B. BACKGROUND

4.       Overview of the Floods. Bangladesh is one o f the world's most vulnerable countries to natural
hazards such as floods, droughts, cyclones, and earthquakes. Eighty percent o f the country consists o f
floodplains created by over 300 rivers and channels, including three major rivers: the Ganges, the
Brahmaputra, and the Meghna. At the same time, Bangladesh is only a small part o f a large hydrologic
regional system, as less than 10 percent o f the basin falls within the national temtory. The floodplains are
also home to a large population --most o f which i s rural and poor --whose life i s intricately linked to the
flooding regime. Annual regular flooding has traditionally been beneficial, while high magnitude floods
can have devastating impacts on the livelihoods and the economy. Recent major floods occurred in 1978,
1988,1998,2004 and 2007.

5.       The 2007 Floods consisted o f two waves. The first wave o f floods started during the last week o f
July and ended in early August affecting 40 districts of the country. The second wave started early
September and ended in late October affecting 27 districts (6 o f which were new districts). The 2007
Floods directly affected over 13 million people in 46 districts, caused over 1,000 deaths, affected over 2
million acres o f agricultural land, and damaged infrastructure, social and educational facilities and private
assets, includinghousing, crops, livestock, and fisheries.

6.       Government Response. The Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) did a commendable job in
responding to the flood emergency and assisting the affected population. The Ministry o f Food and
Disaster Management (MOFDM) activated emergency response committees at the district, Upazila, and
Union levels and established an operations center in Dhaka to coordinate relief activities. Military
personnel were deployed to assist with the rescue operations and the distribution o f food and relief
services. To assist the flood-affected households, the GOB also expanded the Vulnerable Group Feeding
(VGF) program from August 2007 onwards by targeting about 3 million families.                 By the end o f
September, over 130,000 metric tons o f rice had been allocated for this program. The GOB has also
distributed clothing and bundles o f conugated iron sheets, along with cash grants and house building
grants, totaling around Tk760 million (approximately US$11 million).           The Ministry o f Health and
Family Welfare procured emergency supplies worth US$1.57 million using Health, Nutrition and
Population Sector Program (HNPSP) SWAP (Sector Wide Approach) Funds. The Bank had allowed for
national/international shopping to speed up delivery o f the commodities.

7.       Community, NGO and InternationalResponse. Affected communities rapidly started to repair
and rebuild their housing and to find ways to restore their livelihoods. Non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) provided food, health supplies and services, water, and other basic necessities to thousands o f
flood affected families throughout the country.

8.       UN agencies also supported the Government's relief efforts.         The UN mobilized US$19.46
million for immediate recovery that i s followed up by an appeal for about US$40 million for extended
recovery period o f six months from October 2007 till March 2008. Several bilateral donors, including
Saudi Arabia (US$50 million), DFID (US$4 million), India (US$lO million), EU and International Red
Cross (US$3.4 million), China, AUSAID, Kuwait, IDBand OPEC Fund,have also made contributions.



                                                     2

9.        Bank Response. Responding to the Government's request for assistance, the World Bank
established a cross-sectoral Flood Response Team. The Bank has agreed to implement a two part flood
assistance strategy to help the country cope with 2007 Flood Emergency. The first part o f the strategy
consisted o f a quick-disbursing US$75 million budget support operation to reduce fiscal pressure arising
from non-programmed flood related spending and any unforeseen pressure on the foreign exchange
reserves that may be arising as a result o f emergency imports, particularly those related to food imports.
These resources, among other things, will help restore part o f the non-wage operation and maintenance
(O&M) budget o f several Ministries that was being used for flood-related restoration and rehabilitation
activities. This interventionwas incorporated as additional financing for the Fourth Development Support
Credit approved by the Board on September 27,2007.

10.       The second part, which consists o f restoration and rehabilitation activities associated with the
2007 Floods, i s planned to be financed by reallocating resources from the existing Bank projects that face
imminent cancellations and/or have disaster management components built into their design. For this
purpose, Bank's cross-sectoral Flood Response Team, jointly with the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
carried out in September/October 2007 damage and needs assessment related to the floods, and helped
formulate a recovery program. Each institution also discussed with the Government the ways in which
assistance would be phased and financed. The assessment, which was carried out in close collaboration
with GOB, included field visits to a sample o f affected districts and consultation with NGOs, donors,
academics and the private sector. The joint World Bank-ADB Report was shared in draft with the
Government. This report includes detailed social, economic, environmental and sector-specific
assessments.

11.       The overallpost-floodBank assistance has been agreed with GOB on the basis o fthe damage and
needs assessment. The initial program, described below, will be supported through the reallocation o f
existing credits funds, following OP 8.0 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies). Bank assistance i s
underpinned by a long-term and comprehensive hazard risk management approach, building upon and
directly supporting (a) national capacity for immediate post-disaster response and recovery, and long-term
multi-hazard risk management; (b) donor initiatives developed over the years to complement government
and civil society's efforts; and (c) Bank experience in supporting post-disaster recovery and hazard
management inBangladesh and inother countries.


SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMICIMPACT OF THE FLOODS
                                  AND

12.       Preliminary estimates indicate that the total impact o f the floods, including asset and output
losses, was about US$1.lbillion', constituting about 2 percent o f GDP. The country suffered the most
damage inhousing, transport infrastructure, crops, fisheries, livestock, schools and education centers, and
individual and community water and sanitation facilities. Public sector accounts for 36 percent o f asset
losses. Most o fthe output losses were experiencedby the private sector, due primarily to the impact o f the
floods on the agnculture sector.

13.       Social Impact. Nationwide, more than 13 millionpeople across 46 districts were directly affected
bythe floods. Households living inareas o fnortheast Bangladesh (near the major rivers) experiencedthe
longest and generally the most severe floods. Women and children were particularly vulnerable duringthe



  Estimates include output losses from agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors. Output losses for transport,
industryand whole sale and retail trade were not estimated due to lack ofdata. These losses estimated about 20%
total losses during 2004 flood. Usingthe same basis the total losses during 2007 floods could be about US$1.41
billion. See Annex 5 for full details.


                                                           3

floods, facing, among others, challenges to ensure their physical security in urban shelters and adequate
nutrition. Two million acres o f agricultural land were affected. Inrelative terms, the overall incidence o f
diarrheal disease, following the flood, shows a declining trend as compared to 1998 and 2004. However,
urban slum dwellers, living in poorly-drained areas, suffered from long periods o f standing water that
increasedthe risk o f diarrheal disease, especially among children. Flood waters also reduced income and
employment opportunities o f many households, who generally resorted to informal loans at higher
interest rates in order to cope with the flood emergency. More specifically, about 2 million workers,
including the rural poor, farmers, day laborers, rickshaw pullers, small traders, and fishermen, lost work
for an average o f 47 days. Factory workers and day laborers also suffered income losses due to disruption
o f industrial activities inmany districts.

14.      EnvironmentalImpact. The floods exacerbated, and often triggered, riverbank erosion, soil
erosion, water logging, and water contamination that increased health risks. Riverbank erosion and soil
erosion were exacerbated, especially along major rivers. Water logging, which was often contaminated,
contributed to healthrisks, particularly inthe flood-prone urban areas.

15.      Economic Impact. Past experience suggests that floods tend to: (a) reduce GDP growth, in
particular by dampening growth inagriculture, construction, small-scale manufacturing, and transport and
communication; (b) increase inflation, particularly by increasing food prices as a result o f supply shock
and disruptions in transportation; (c) reduce export growth, increase remittances and imports (the latter
resulting from the emergency need for food and items needed for reconstruction); and (d) increase fiscal
deficits by depressing revenue growth and increasing unforeseen expenditures.           Past experience also
shows that these adverse effects are temporary. The Bangladesh economy has time and again proved its
resilience inrecovering from the effects o fnatural disasters inreasonably quick time.

16.      On the other hand, the budget deficit inFY08 i s likely to expand. The relief effort, expansion in
food-assisted safety nets, repairing damage to public property, and the impact o f floods on economic
growth are likely to put pressure on both public expenditure and tax revenues. Given these
multidimensional needs, revenue expenditure may overshoot the original FY08 budget target despite the
provisions that exist in the FY08 Revenue Budget and the Food Account. Historically, growth inrevenue
collection declines, in the flood year. Combined with expenditure increases, this could lead to the FY08
budget deficit to be higher than the pre-flood 3.6 percent projection.


RECOVERY AND FINANCINGNEEDS

17.      The projected financing needs o f the public sector, related to rehabilitation and reconstruction o f
physical infrastructure, i s about US$600 million, depending on the level o f improved standards that are
applied during implementation. Financialresources, which are more difficult to estimate, are also needed
to help the poor and vulnerable recover from the floods, and ensure speedy recovery o f the agriculture
sector.

18.      It i s estimated that GOB has reallocated Tk22 billion (roughly US$324 million or about 3.4
percent o f total) from the revenue budget for addressing the floods needs this year, including funds to
ensure livelihood restoration, agnculture rehabilitation, and rapid repair o f critical infrastructure and
facilities. Some o f the activities undertaken include implementation o f a comprehensive agnculture
rehabilitationprogram to assist farmers with recovery o f losses through provision o f free seeds, seedlings
and fertilizer, as well as provision o f cash grants to affected families. Actual cash transfers for housing,
through the Ministryof Food and Disaster Management, amounted to TK 625 million (US$9.1 million).




                                                       4

19.       It is important to note that the resources redirected by GOB from the revenue budget to
implement unexpected immediate rehabilitation needs have reduced the funds allocated for O&M o f
infrastructure and other assets. Specifically, line ministries redirected funds from their FY08 allocations
for regular O&M to carry out repair and immediate rehabilitation o f the damaged facilities and
infrastructure. It i s necessary to help close this gap within this fiscal year, as expeditiously as possible, in
order to ensure sustainable recovery, which requires ensuring continued maintenance o f existing assets in
addition to reconstruction o f critical infrastructure and facilities to improvedhazard-resistant standards.



C. THE PROPOSEDPOST-FLOODRECOVERY APPROACHAND PROGRAM

20.       The proposed recovery program takes into consideration short-term rehabilitation, medium-term
reconstruction and recovery, and long-term, multi-hazard risk management needs of the country. The
initial program (up to 36 months) will be financed through the reallocation o f US$122.2 million from the
proceeds o f nine Credits, as proposed inthe Memorandum o f the President (see Table below for details).
Of these seven Development Credits Agreements (DCAs) will be amended canceling funds from some
credits and reallocating to others. About 91% o f the funds (US$111 million) would come from four
credits: Local Governance Support Project (Cr. 4193, US$30 million); Water Supply Program Project
(H1010, US$30 million); Water Management ImprovementProject (Cr. 4359, US$34 million), and Post-
Literacy and ContinuingEducation(Cr. 3467, US$17 million).

       Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance Program FundingProposal



           Project Name




  a/ consisting of IDA Grant, IDA Credit, cofinancingby Government of The Netherlands for Water Management Improvement
Project, fundspooledbyHNP Sector ProgramandPrimaryEducationSWAPpartners andcounterpartfunds by GOB.




                                                           5

21.      As shown inthe above Table, funds from seven credits (about US$52.2 million) is made available
for flood restoration activities within the same project. The flood restoration works fit into the projects'
overall objectives and they already have components allowing flood restoration and rehabilitation
activities without major amendments to the project design.       Funds would be cancelled from the Water
Supply Program Project (H1010, US$25 million grant) and allocated to Social Investment Program
Project (Cr. 3740, US$25 million); funds would be cancelled from the Local Governance Support Project
(Cr. 4193, US$20 million) and the Post-literacy and Continuing Education Project (Cr. 3467 US$5
million) and allocated to Municipal Services Project (Cr. 3177, US$25 million); and funds would be
cancelled from Post-literacy and Continuing Education Project (Cr. 3467 US$12 million) and the Water
Management Improvement Project (Cr. 4359, US$8 million) and allocated to the Rural Transport
Improvement Project (Cr. H1010, US$20 million).

22.      The total cost o f the program would be US$152.4 million o f which US$122.2 million would be
funded from the IDA grant and credits, US$6.3 million by the Government o f The Netherlands (under
cofinancing arrangements for the Water Management Improvement Project, Cr 4359), US$1.2 and
US$2.2 by the SWAP partners o f Primary Education Development Program I1and HNP Sector Program
respectively and the remaining US$22.3 million by the Government o f Bangladesh, in accordance with
the financing percentages agreed under various operations. The decisions for use o f funds from Primary
Education Development ProgramI1and HNP Sector Programfor 2007 FRRAP activities will be taken by
the SWAP partners and GOB inthe context o f overall implementation o f these operations.

23.      Rationale for Bank Intervention. Inline with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as well as
Bangladesh's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the proposed program will finance activities
consistent with the long-term disaster risk management, which is critical to sustainable economic growth
and poverty reduction. The program will directly support flood-resistant infrastructure rehabilitation,
livelihoodrevival and vulnerability reduction.

24.      Lessons Learned. The Bank has accumulated significant experience in supporting post-disaster
recovery. This experience indicates, at the general level, that sustainable recovery not only requires timely
implementation o f rehabilitation and reconstruction activities, but also preparation o f a program that
places these activities properly within the longer-term goal o f reducing overall disaster vulnerability, and
approaches them as development activities. Moreover, as cross-country experience also shows, achieving
this objective requires government commitment and community and private sector involvement. In the
medium-term, in a vulnerable country such as Bangladesh, multi-hazard risk mitigation approach should
be mainstreamedthrough the CAS and sector strategies, and throughregular operations.

25.      The success o f emergency assistance program depends on how fast sustainable results are
obtained on the ground. Effective implementation o fpost-disaster assistance activities i s therefore critical.
In this respect, the program is designed by keeping in view the lessons learned from the 2004 Flood
restoration and recovery program, as follows:


    0    Emergency recovery operations should have a simple design, taking into consideration local
         implementation capacity and the fact that this capacity may be strained in the aftermath of a
         natural disaster.
    0    Effective and simple implementation arrangements should be put inplace.
    0    Whenever possible, experienced and properly staffed implementing agencies should be relied
         upon to ensure smooth progress.




                                                     6

         These agencies should be empowered to take decisions in a timely manner, and to be able to
         access funds with as minimum bureaucratic requirements as possible while maintaining
         acceptable fiduciary controls.
     0   Complex multi-sectoral operations, requiring major central oversight and protracted decision-
         malungprocesses, should be avoided.
     0   Short-term rehabilitation activities should be implemented separately from medium to long-term
         hazard reduction activities and institutional capacity building, since these require additional
         preparation (often with inputs from international experts and technical studies) and longer
         implementation period, and are therefore better addressed throughregular operations and AAA.
     0   Close management attention and adequate resources for supervision should be provided.

26.      The major differences in design o f 2007 Flood Restoration Program and 2004 Program are: (a)
selectivity, i.e. support i s provided in sectors where Bank has operations that are performing well; and (b)
funds are moved from credits where surplus funds are available to the relevant credits inthe sectors where
these funds are needed for restoration and rehabilitation activities. This simplifies the implementation
arrangement as the existing relevant agencies are made responsible for implementing the flood related
restoration and recovery activities and also application o f proper procurement and financial management
procedures that are defined inthe credit agreements.

27.      ProgramObjective.The program objective is to support the speedy recovery o fthe country and
o f the affected population, particularly the poor and vulnerable, while emphasizing disaster vulnerability
reductionover the long-term.

28.      Program Description.Total program cost is estimated at US$152.4 million, o f which the IDA
will finance US$122.2 million or about 81 percent o f total. Programcomponents are summarized below
(see Annex 1 and Annex 3 for further details). Outcomes and outputs for the Program are described in
Annex 2. Annex 4 provides description o f projects that are part o f the 2007 Food Restoration and
Recovery Assistance Program.

(a)      Infrastructure Rehabilitation (UW27.3 million) including flood protection embankments,
         urban and rural roads and bridges, primary schools - emphasizing dual use as emergency shelters,
         municipal infrastructure, and flood proofing o f all rehabilitation (especially water and sanitation
         facilities). Inaddition to ensuring reconstruction o f vital assets, the Programwill promote the use
         o f hazard-resistant standards and adequate O&M arrangements.

(b)      Livelihood Restoration (US$25.0 million).           The livelihood restoration program would be
         implemented through two channels: (i)      the Social Investment ProgramProject (SIPP, Cr. 3740);
         and (ii)  the Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), the apex financing organization o f the
         microfinance sector and its Partner Organizations (POs).

         SIPP i s operational in two o f the flood affected districts, Jamalpur and Gaibandha. However, its
         POs have capacity to operate inother neighboring districts as well. Therefore, the program would
         be expanded to the neighboring districts. Under SIPP, the implementing agency would be the
         Social Development Foundation (SDF) facilitated by local communities, and existing partner
         NGOs. SIPP implementation framework would be used in flood restoration works and priority
         would be given to hard core poor and ultra poor families.

         PKSF i s already implementing a program to support livelihood restoration using the funds
         provided under 2004 Flood Restoration program. US$15 million would be made available to
         PKSF under the 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance Program(2007 FRRAP). The



                                                        7

        PKSF program consists o f a micro-credit program to provide low interest loans to disaster-
        affected households. Its POs constitute a large network o f over 200 NGOs providing
        microfinance services across Bangladesh. PKSF i s providing credit at concessionary terms, which
        the recipient can use for post-disaster rehabilitation needs, including consumption, the monga'
        lean season and other major disasters, should they occur. The program will be appropriately ring-
        fenced and targeted to avoid any deleterious impact on the sustainability o f the microfinance
        system in Bangladesh. Social Development Foundation (SDF) will monitor the implementation
        o f PKSFprogram (details are inAnnex 3).

        As indicated earlier, for the livelihood component o f the program, US$25 million would be
        transferred to SIPP from the Water Supply Program Project (H1010) that i s an IDA Grant.
        Initially, US$10 million and US$15 million would be allocated to operations under SDF and
        PKSF respectively. However, adjustments would be made, ifneeded, after one year based on the
        progress made under eachoperation.



D. PROGRAMIMPLEMENTATION

29.     Program Organization and Management. To ensure rapid and effective implementation, the
2007 FRRAP will support sectors where the Bank i s currently financing regular investments. Major
resources (IDA credit o fUS$63.8 million) are allocated to restoration o f municipal infrastructure through
Municipal Services Project (Cr. 3177) and rural and secondary roads through Rural Transport
Improvement Project (Cr. 3791).           Both o f these projects are being implemented by the Local
Government Engineering Department (LGED)which ingeneral has good expertise inprocurement (with
the exception o f few recent incidences o f inappropriate/ collusive biddingpractices at decentralizedlocal
level).  Financial management practices adopted by LGED in Bank funded projects were generally
satisfactory with the exception o f some deviations from Bank rules regarding payment o f retention
money and transfer o f fund from a Special Account to intermediary bank accounts in respect o f 2004
Flood Rehabilitation Program. Strong monitoring arrangements will be in place to prevent such
deviations under this program. The restoration o f flood protection embankments and Flood Control
Drainage and h g a t i o n (FCDI) Schemes would be carried out through the Water Management
Improvement Project (CR. 4359), using about US$37.1 million, for which a comprehensive
implementation and procurement arrangements have been agreed under the project. Similarly for other
restoration works, concerned line ministries and departments will be accountable for their respective
infrastructure rehabilitation within the framework o f ongoing projects. As noted above, the livelihood
restoration programwill be implemented through the ongoing SlPP (for which the implementing agency
is SDF and its POs) and by PKSF, with which the Bank has a long and successful relationship, and
PKSF's Partner Organizations.

 30.    As described above the Program components will be implemented through ongoing projects.
 For that purpose, funds will be canceled from four projects and additional funds will be allocated to
 three projects.     The likely impact o f additional financing and cancellations in each project i s
 summarized inAnnex 1and more details are given inAnnex 4. Fullrestructuring o f the projects will be
 carried out intwo phases. First, through the current package and amendments to relevant DCAshigning
 FAs for additional financing: (a) covering estimated cancellation or additional financing of funds; (b)
 adding any additional activities or institutions which would be implementingprogram activities such as


 The monga lean season generally occurs between October and November inthe Northwest o f the country which is
affectedby the 2007 Floods. This is a period preceding the December rice harvest whenjob opportunities are scarce
and food stocks are low.


                                                         8

 PKSF under SIPP; and (c) application o f latest procurement guidelines for additional financing as
 mentioned above. Further restructuring, where necessary would be completed in the second stage,
 duringnormal course o f supervision (over the next six to nine months) when the task teams will reset
 the targets to be achieved under the projects, performance indicators and outcomes as needed. This may
 require some amendments to the DCAs. Formal restructuring will be necessary only in case o f Water
 Supply ProgramProject (Cr. H1010) that will be submitted to the Board subsequently.

31.      ImplementationPlan. Implementation plans have been agreed for all relevant sub-components.
These plans includepreliminary details o f works and costs, project implementation arrangements, as well
as financial management arrangements and procurement plans. The implementation plans may be
reviewedand updatedperiodically, inagreement with the Bank.


PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

32.      Procurement o f goods, works and consultants shall be undertaken in accordance with the
Procurement Guidelines o f the World Bank (WB), including: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" and "Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers". For procurement of
goods, works and services using additional funds provided to three credit SIPP (Cr. 3740), MSP (Cr.
3177) and RTIP (Cr. 3791) World Bank Guidelines of May 2004 and revised in October 2006 would
apply. Within the context o f the World Bank Guidelines, local procurement o f goods, works, and
consultants services will follow the Government's Public Procurement Regulations 2003Public
Procurement Act 2006 as stipulated inthe Financing Agreements for the respective projects, and in case
o f any conflicts between the two procedures, the WB Guidelines shall prevail.

 33.     The major portion o f the infrastructure rehabilitation comprises works, followed by small
 quantities o f goods, and some consulting services to support implementation. Rehabilitation works
 include secondaryhral roads, municipal infrastructure (urban roads, culverts, drainage facilities, etc.),
 flood protection embankments, and health facilities. Most works contracts are generally small in value
 and scattered throughout the country, which would be procured using national competitive bidding
 (NCB) procedures. Most o f the projects have already recruited consulting services.            However, if
 additional consulting services are needed, due to the emergency nature o f the reconstruction program and
 the related need to minimize the time requiredto engage consultants, consulting services contracts will
 be procured using single-source selection method. Contracts may be awarded to consultants already
 engaged by the implementing agencies for their ongoing works subject to satisfactory performance. The
 terms o freference and draft contracts for consulting services will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

34.      For additional financing, the prior review thresholds for goods, works, and services for RTIP and
SIPP remain unaltered as defined intheir respective Financing Agreements while for MSP the thresholds
will be as follows: (a) for goods, contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more; (b) for
works, contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more; (c) each contract for consultants'
services provided by a firm, estimated to cost the equivalent o f $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for
services o f individual consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent o f $50,000 or more; (e) qualification
and terms o f reference o f individual consultants contract below equivalent o f $50,000; and (f) all
contracts for goods procured under direct contracting and consultants' services procured under single
source selection. The procurement methods and their thresholds will remain same as were in the original
projects except for MSP where N C B will be applicable for contracts value less than US$1,000,000 for
works and US$300,000 for goods.




                                                      9

 35.      Post review o f 2004 flood contracts revealed number o f cases o f inappropriate/ collusive bidding
 practices. In consideration o f the procurement experience o f 2004 flood combined with the nature and
 type o f works inthe present flood 2007, to address the procurement associated risks, following additional
 features will be factored into and agreed with the Borrower: (i)   contract packages will be made as large
 as practicable with due consideration to the nature and type o f work, (ii)         implementation o f the
 procurement risk mitigation framework will be made mandatory for each implementing agency, (iii)
 consultant's representativewill be a mandatory member inthe bidevaluation committee and will oversee
 the bidding process and supervise technical side including certification o f quality and payments, and
 submit quarterly report to GOB and also sharedwith WB, (iv) for the above four implementing agencies,
 all contracts below the prior review threshold will be subject to post review by an independent chartered
 accounting firm (with international affiliation) hired by the WB, and (v) for other implementing agencies
 like SDF, PKSF or unions, the post review or audit will be carried out as stipulated in the respective
 project documents.


 FINANCIAL      MANAGEMENT       ARRANGEMENTS

 36.      Financial management arrangements will comply with the provisions o f the covenants and the
 procedures agreed under the respective credits including those under FAs for additional financing. Each
 o f the implementing agencies will maintain separate books and records for activities under the program
 and prepare a single quarterly Interim un-audited Financial Reports (IUFRs)/ Financial Monitoring
 Reports(FMRs) combining the original project activities and the activities financed under the Program..
 The unified IUFRsLFMRswill be submitted 30 days after each quarter, presenting the information on the
 program in separate columns/ lines. Each implementing agency will prepare unified annual financial
 statements (AFS) combining activities financed under the original project and the program with
 appropriate disclosures for each. Such unifiedAFS will be audited under a single audit arrangement and
 audited AFSs will be submitted within six months from the end o f a financial year. The Comptroller and
 Auditor General will audit all financial statements under the program excepting those prepared for the
 activities implemented under SIPP. The SDF will submit its annual financial statement audited by its
 private auditor and will be responsible for timely audit o f the program to be implementedby PKSF and
 submission o f the PKSF's annual financial statements audited by its private auditor to the Bank.


DISBURSEMENT       ARRANGEMENTS

37.       To implement the livelihood restoration component, the Bank funds o f US$15 million will be
utilized by PKSF on a reimbursement basis over a period o f 36 months from the date o f effectiveness,
under a Memorandum o f Understanding between the SDF and PKSF with terms and conditions,
satisfactory to IDA. Each o f the participating POs will receive funds from PKSF prior to the annual
Mongu season and/or duringnatural disasters. (see Annex 3 for details).

38.       The standard disbursement percentages agreed under each credit would apply. However,
expenditures for FRRAP would be reported separately. Disbursements will be made against Statement o f
Expenditure (SOE) for all contracts below the prior review limits o f the individual credits. Disbursement
under additional financing for MSP will also bereport based aligning with the original Credit for MSP.

39.       Special Accounts/Designated Accounts. Special accounts (SA)/Designated Accounts (DA)
under each credit would be used for disbursing Program funds. Existing Special Accounts under the
original credit will also be `pooled' and used for the additional credit/grant providing additional financing
for MSP,SIPP and RTIP as would be indicated in respective disbursement letter. Currently the existing
ceilings o f the SAs/DAs would remain unchanged, however these will be increased as and when needed
to ensure unhindered cash flow for smooth implementation.



                                                     10

40.     Incase o f PKSF, funds would be disbursed by PKSF to POs from its own resources and it will
then seek reimbursement from IDA through SDF/SIPP. Expenditures would be batched into large re-
imbursement applications andh d scanbe transferred to PKSF through SDF.


ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SAFEGUARDSPOLICIES
                    AND

41.     Inview of the emergency nature of the Program (processed under OP 8.0), and the proposed
areas for Bank financing, a full-fledged Environmental Assessment was not carried out. This i s in
accordance with the provisions o f OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment). Nevertheless, a rapid
environmental assessment was undertaken as part of the damage and needs assessment exercise.

42.     The potential environmental impacts o f the Program are low since it only supports rehabilitation
and reconstruction o f damaged infrastructure and facilities, and no new major construction i s
anticipated. The Bank i s already financing projects in the sectors supported under the Program- rural
and secondary road networks, municipal infrastructure, and primary schools       - which have adequate
environmental and social assessments. Moreover, the program will be implementedthrough the existing
projects under implementation and thus have the necessary experience in meeting the Bank's social and
environmental safeguards requirements.

43.     Reconstruction work under the Program i s not expected to have adverse social impacts either.
Land acquisition and resettlement are not foreseen during this initial stage. The rehabilitation o f
infrastructure will be conducted on the basis o f the environmental and resettlement fkamework already
agreed within the projects; therefore, the same principles, mitigation measures and compensation
package would apply. These principleswould also apply if land acquisition becomes unavoidable.

44.     Ensuring compliance will also be facilitated by the fact that the Bank teams that are currently
supervising the regular projects under each o f the sectors supported by the Flood Restoration and
Recovery Assistance Program would also be supervising the components or sub-components under the
Program.



E. PROGRAMBENEFITSAND RISKS

45.     Benefits. The Program's benefits would come through the restoration and rehabilitation o f
infrastructure, and recovery o f livelihoods. The Programwill build on the relief and recovery measures
already initiatedby the Government, and will be complemented by the assistance provided by the Asian
Development Bank, various agencies o f the United Nations, non-governmental organizations, and the
private sector. The micro-credits will help families avoid costly informal borrowings, and will
strengthen their coping ability after disasters. The infrastructure rehabilitation program will generate
employment, while the rehabilitation o f schools (with emphasis on dual use as adequate emergency
shelters) will help improve disaster preparedness and response. The dissemination o f information and
adoption o f flood-resistant construction i s expected to reduce future damage to assets as well as
production losses.

46.     Risks.  Although the Program i s supporting sectors where experienced implementing
arrangements already exist and therefore, smooth implementation i s expected, slow disbursements,
reflectingweak implementation capacity, i s an ongoing concern inBangladesh. The Programs may also
face some procurement risks in particular inappropriate and collusive bidding practices for which



                                                    11

mitigation measures are introduced as described inprocurement section above. Inthis respect, program
implementation arrangements have been kept as simple as possible, maintaining the decision-making
process and accountability at the level o f the responsible line ministry and implementing agency or
department. Moreover, post-flood rehabilitationactivities will be closely monitored, relying heavily on
country office staff.

47.     Governance issues, especially potential opportunities for misappropriation o f resources or
politicization o f recovery assistance, are o f concern during the implementation o f the emergency
recovery programs. However, the governance situation has improved during the tenure o f the caretaker
Government.      The implementing agencies involved, particularly LGED (which i s using bulk o f the
funds), also have good track recordinterms o fprocurement and financial management. To mitigate this
risk, close follow up is planned, emphasizing due diligence in procurement and independent audits,
coupled with periodic reviews o f accounts, statements o f expenditure, and close monitoring o f the
targeting o f investments under the Program.




                                                  12

                                     ANNEX 1:ProgramDescription
                   Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance

                     ProgramCost andIDA Financingby Component(US$ million)

ActivityISector                              Program         IDA         Credit Name
                                               cost       Financing
ComponentA: Infrastructure
Rehabilitation

Secondary and ruralroadnetwork                 33.8          27.0        Rural Transport Improvement
                                                                         Project (Cr 3791)
Municipal andrural Infrastructure              43.8          37.0        Municipal Services Project
                                                                         (Cr 3177)
                                                                         Local Governance Support Project

HealthFacilities                                5.0           2.0        HNP Sector Program(Cr.4052)
Primary Schools                                 1.4           0.2        Primary EducationDev ProgramI1
                                                                         (Cr. 3857)
FloodProtectionEmbankments and Flood           37.1          26.0        Water Management Improvement
Control Drainage and IrrigationSchemes                                   Project (CR. 4359)
Water Supply and Sanitation facilities          6.3           5.0        Water Supply Program Project
                                                                         (Cr. 4193)
                 Sub-total                     127.4         97.2
ComponentB: LivelihoodRestoration
  Social Investment Program                     10.0         10.0        Social Investment ProgramProject

 Recovery LoanProgramby PKSF                    15.0         15.0        Social Investment ProgramProject
                                                                         (Cr. 3740)
                Sub-Total                      25.0          25.0
                   Total                       152.4        122.2

Program Components

ComponentA InfrastructureRehabilitation(TotalCost: US$127.4 millionIDA Creditof US$97.2
                -
million)

(0        Secondary andRuralRoadNetwork(US$33.8 million)

         The existing PMU o f Rural Transport Improvement Project (RTIP) will implement the activities
         under this sub-component, which include rehabilitation o f secondary and rural roads, including
         rehabilitationand reconstruction o fbridges and culverts. IDA financing would be US$27 million
         for this sub-component.      US$12 million will be transferred from the Post-Literacy and
         Continuing Education Project, CR. 3467 (credit closing date i s December 31, 2007), US$8
         million from the Water Sector Improvement Project, Cr 4359, and US$7.0 million would be
         made available from savings from RTIP. The current closing date of June 30, 2009 for RTIP
         would have to be extendedtoJune 30.2011.

(ii)      MunicipalInfrastructure(US$43.8 million)
         The existing PMU o f Municipal Services Project (MSP) will implement the activities under this
         sub-component which will be supported by funding o f US$30 million; o f which IDA credit will
         be US$27 million. About US$2 million are savings available within the project and US$20



                                                    13

    million andUS$5 million will be transferred from the Local Governance Support (Cr. 4193) and
    Post-Literacy and Continuing Education Project (Cr. 3467) respectively. The sub-component
    includes rehabilitation of urban roads, bridges and culverts, and drainage facilities in
    municipalities. In addition, US$10 million would be available under the Local Governance
    Support Project (Cr. 4193) to rehabilitate infrastructure at the union level through its own
    implementingagencies i.e. local governments. Thecredit closing date of MSP would have to be
    extendedfrom June 30, 2008 to June 30,2011.

     Rehabilitationof Health Facilities (US$5.0 million)
    For rehabilitation o f health facilities IDA credit o f US$2.0 million is made available from HNP
    Sector Program (Cr. 4052). The HNPSP total budget i s US$4.3 billion - US$3.0 billion o f GOB
    support and US$1.3 billion o f development partners support. Of the 1.3 billion, US$750 million
    has been pooled with the Bank. IDA credit i s US$300 million (40% o f pooled funds) out o f the
    US$750 million pool fund maintained by the Bank. Estimateddamage to health facilities i s
    US$5.2 million and this can be financed out o f the pooled funds of HNPSP. The current
    closing date of theproject is December 31, 2010 and this would not require any extension.

     Primary Schools (US$1.4 million)
    These funds would be made within the Pnmary Education Development Program I1Project (Cr.
    3857) which i s part o f a SWAP. IDA allocationwould be only US$0.2 million. Fundswould be
    used for rehabilitation work after reaching an agreement within the SWAP partners. The credit
    closing date is June 30, 2010 and would not require any extension

     Flood Embankments, Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Schemes (US$37.1 million).
    Restoration and rehabilitation o f flood embankments, Flood Control, Drainage (FCD) schemes
    and Flood Control, Drainage and h g a t i o n (FCDI) schemes would be carried out by the
    Bangladesh Water Development Board using the fund provided under Water Management
    Improvement Project (WMIP, Cr. 4359) under Component 2 which i s primarily aimed at
    carrying out operation andmaintenance o f FCDI schemes. Rehabilitation o f flood embankments
    and rehabilitation o f FCD and FCDI schemes fits very well within the overall Project objectives.
    An IDA credit of US$26 million will be allocated for this component; US$6.3 million are
    expected to be financed by the Government of The Netherlands and US$4.8 million by the
    Government o f Bangladesh. The credit closing date is December 31, 2014 and would not need
    any extension.

     Water supply and sanitation facilities (US$6.3 million).
    Restoration and rehabilitation where needed, would be carried out under the Water Supply
    Program (CR. H1010) by the Department o f Public Health Engineering (DPHE). An IDA credit
    o f US$5.0 million i s allocated for the activities. The credit closing date of April 30, 2010 would
    not need any extension.

Component B Livelihood Restoration (Total Cost: US$25.0 million, IDA Grant of US$25 million)
            -

(i) Under SIPP the implementingagency would be Social Development Foundation(SDF) facilitated
    by the local communities, and existingpartner NGOs. SIPP implementationframework would be
    used in flood restoration works and priority would be given to hard core poor and ultra poor
    families. Initially, US$10 million) are allocated to SIPP. US$25 million would be transferred to
    SIPP from Water Supply Program Project (Cr. H1010) which i s an IDA Grant. US$15 million
    would be made available to PKSF. Current SIPP closing date of September 30, 2009 would have
    to be extendedto June 30, 2011.



                                                   14

(ii)     PKSF will administer the micro-credit program through the Disaster Management Fund (DMF)
         and its Partner Organizations (POs) will provide the low interest loans to eligible families.
         Initially the program will consist o f US$15 million to provide loans to poor households affected
         bynatural disasters and/or bythe annualMonga season. Average loans o f about Tk 1,500 will be
         provided to eligible beneficiaries for rehabilitationneeds. Recovered funds will be available for
         re-lending in successive years as part o f the revolving fund. This component will be financed
         with funds from SPP. As indicated above, funds would be transferred to SPP from the Water
         Supply Program (Cr. H1010). After one year, based on performance o f SDF and PKSF
         programs, necessary adjustments would be made in allocation o f funds to the two sub-
         components.

Impact of cancellation and reallocationof Fundson Component Projects.

As described above the Program components will be implementedthrough ongoing projects. For that
purpose, funds will be canceled from four projects and additional hnds will be allocated to three
projects. The likely impact o f additional financing and cancellation in each project i s summarized
below and more details are given inAnnex 4.



           ProiectName                        PDO                     ProiectTargets andoutcomes
ProiectsDrovidedwith AdditionalFinancing
                                                              Project activities and targets will be scaled
Municipal Services Project, Cr.       PDOs will not
3177                                  change.                 up,project documents will berevised. Formal
                                                              restructuring will not be necessary.
                                                              Project activities and targets will be scaled
Rural Transport Improvement           PDOs will not           up,project documents will be revised
Project, Cr. 3791                     change.                 subsequently, formal restructuring will not be
                                                              necessary.
                                                              Project activities will be expanded, districts
                                                              affected by floods, and restoration activities
Social Investment Project             PDOswill not            will be a scaled up. Project document will be
Program, Cr 3740                      change.                 revised, complete restructuring will not be
                                                              necessary. PKSF will be added as an
                                                              implementing entity under the project.
Projectswith CancellationofFunds
                                                              Project activities and targets will be scaled
Water Supply ProgramProject,          PDOswill be             down. Project restructuring has been
H l O l O                             revised.                initiated. Restructuredproject will be
                                                              submitted to the Board subsequently.
                                                              Projecti s closing, activities have been
Pnnt-1.iteracv & Continuing           PDOswill not            completed, savings inthe project will be
                                                              cancelled. Project documents do notneed
                                                              any revisions.
                                                              Project activities and targets will be kept
                                                              same as original. Additional financingwill be
Local Governance Support              PDOswill not be         provided inyear four o f the project to meet
Project, Cr. 4193                     changed                 the targets ifthe project implementation
                                                              Droceeds well.
Water Management                    I PDOSwill not            Project activities may change marginally.



                                                     15

ImprovementProject, Cr 4359         change.                 Project will not require a formal
                                                            restructuring. Additional financing can be
                                                            providedinyear six o fthe project if
                                                            implementationproceeds well.

Fullrestructuring of the projects will be carried out in two phases. First, through the current package
and amendments to relevant DCAs: (a) covering estimated cancellation or additional financing o f funds;
(b)adding any additional activities or institutions which would be implementingprogramactivities such
as PKSF under SIPP; and (c) application o f latest procurement guidelines for additional financing as
mentioned above. Further restructuring, where necessary would be completed in the second stage,
duringnormal course o f supervision (over the next six to nine months) when the task teams will reset
the targets to be achieved under the projects, performance indicators and outcomes as needed. This may
require some amendments to the DCAs. Formal restructuring will be necessary only in case of Water
Supply Program Project (H1010) that will be submitted to the Board subsequently.




                                                    16

                              ANNEX 2: ProgramOutcomesand Outputs
                   Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance

ProgramObjective                 To support the speedy recovery o f the country and o fthe affected
                                 population, particularlythe poor and vulnerable, while emphasizing
                                 disaster vulnerability reductionover the long-term.

Outcomes                      Sub-             Agency           LineMinistry Output by sub-
                              component                                          component
InfrastructureRehabilitat n
Infrastructure and facilities Secondary        LGED             Local            Rehabilitationo f Upazila
reconstructedwith             and rural road                    Government       roads, culverts, bridges.
improved standards            network
                              Municipal and LGED and            Local            Rehabilitation o furban
                              rural            Local            Government       roads, bridges, culverts,
                              Infrastructure   Governments                       and drainage channels in
                                                                                 municipalities
                              Health           Local Health     Health and       Restoration o frural
                              facilities       institutions     Family           healthfacilities in
                                               withhelp o f     Welfare          affected Upazillas
                                               LGED
                              Primary          LGED             Primary and      Repairs and/or
                              Schools                           Mass             reconstruction o f
                                                                Education        schools, as well as
                                                                                 provision o f furniture.
                              Flood            BWDB             Water            Repairs to embankments,
                              embankments,                      Resources        FCD and FCDI schemes
                              FCD, FCDI                                          inaffected districts.
                              schemes
                              Water supply     DPHE             Local            Rehabilitation and
                              and sanitation                    Government       restoration o f water
                                                                                 supply and sanitation
                                                                                 facilities inaffected
                                                                                 districts
Livelihoodrestoration
Livelihood o f very poor      SIPP             SDF and its      MOF              The number of flood
people affected by floods                      Pos                               affected hard-core poor
i s restored and chronic                                                         andpoor families
indebtedness i s reduced                                                         organized into
and they have better                                                             "Livelihood groups"
capacity to cope with                                                            andbenefiting from
future disasters
                                                                                 revolving emergency
                                                                                 assistance funds; and
                                                                                 improved
                                                                                 income/emplop e n t
                                                                                 generated through
                                                                                 community
                                                                                 infrastructure activities;
                                                                                 skills development and



                                                     17

                                     income generating
                                     activities.
I    Micro-credit PKSF and itsMOF    The number o f flood
     program      POS                affected families linked to
                                     the micro credit and are
                                     accessing funds from the
                                     micro-credit institutions
                                     for income generation
                                     activities.




                     18

                                   ANNEX 3: LivelihoodRestoration
                      Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance

 1.        Objective. The objective i s to provide quick financial assistance to poor families to help them
 cope with and recover from disasters. Specifically, the component will help prevent the poor households
 affected by disasters from selling advance labor, becoming indebted to unscrupulous money lenders,
 and having to sell valuable assets on a distressed sale basis, and enable them to smooth out
 consumption, which will also help mitigate long-term nutritional consequences o f disasters and ensure
 speedy recovery.

 2.        The above objective will be achieved through the ongoing Social Investment Program Project
 (SIPP) which i s currently being implemented in two districts affected by 2007 Floods, Jamalpur and
 Gaibandha, and also expanding its activities inthe neighboring districts. The implementing agency (the
 Social Development Foundation) o f the on-going SIPP will monitor the overall program under this
 component in all affected villages in the flood affected districts. The component would consist o f two
 sub-components: (a) Livelihood restoration under SIPP and would be implemented through SDF; and
 (b) Livelihoodrestorationunder PKSFprogram. PKSF has a proventrack record o f delivering micro-
 credit services on a sustainable basis to the poor, including programs financed by the World Bank.
 PKSF has already been operating in the 2007 Flood affected districts under the assistance provided
 following 2004 Floods.

 3.        The overall accountability and responsibility o f the component will lie with SDF as the
 implementing agency o f the SIPP. SDF and PKSF will enter into a partnership arrangement through a
 MOU, and funds will be disbursed form SDF to PKSF inthe form o f grant. The MOUwill clearly spell
 out the responsibilities o f SDF and PKSF including the reporting obligations.

Sub-component A: Livelihood Restoration under SIPP (US$lO million).

3.    Operational Plan. The implementing agency (the Social Development Foundation) o f the on-going
SIPP will implement, coordinate and monitor the overall program in all affected villages in the flood
affected districts. Facilitation would be done by the local level government representatives (Union
Parisads), LGED and the existing Partner Organizations (NGOs) o f              SDF). SIPP implementation
framework would be used in flood restoration works and priority would be given to hard core poor and
ultra poor families. The primary focus o f the strategy should be immediate assistance to the flood
affected communities, particularly the extreme poor and vulnerable, for livelihoods restoration. However,
the other objective would be post-flood rehabilitation o f small scale community infrastructures, primarily
to address some urgent connectivity needs. The objectives will be achieved by providing the community
with livelihood development funds to improve income, and flood assistance funds to provide support in
health, water and sanitation and to rehabilitate small scale infrastructures. Inorder to meet the immediate
livelihood needs, it would be important to implement the strategy in a phased manner-that includes
emergency and short-term activities as well as medium and longer-term livelihood promotion. About
150,000 flood affected families will get direct benefit from the livelihood support activities. However, the
infrastructure rehabilitationwork will indirectly benefit the whole community o f all target villages (about
2-3 million).

4.         Strategy /Approach: Considering the livelihood patterns o f the affected people, the strategy
would include the following elements: (a) priority for the hard core poor and ultra poor families because
o f their inability to regain their livelihood without targeted interventions; (b) empowering the poor
especially women by giving them decision mahng role and enabling them to reflect their priorities; (c)
buildingand strengthening o fthe poor such as small groups as "livelihood groups" and helping them with
savings mobilization; (d) special targeted intervention for vulnerable groups that cannot immediately


                                                    19

engage ineconomic activities; (e) ensuring transparency and accountability at all levels; and (f) building
partnerships with micro-credit agencies, public sector programs; and the private sector.

5.         Sub-component/Activities: The livelihood restoration would consist o f two main activities:
(a) FloodAssistance Program to provide emergency assistance to help the most vulnerable flood-affected
families to meet their immediate consumption needs and to rehabilitate and repair the community
infrastructures that have been severely damaged by flood this year. The rehabilitation work will also
provide employment opportunities to the flood-affected families soon after the monsoon i s over; and (b)
Livelihood Development to restore the livelihood o f the flood affected communities through appropriate
skills development trainings, revolving financial assistance and linkage with the market. The livelihood
development activities are an integral part o f the existing project to be funded by the Village
Development Fund(VDF).

6.   Implementation Arrangement: The success of livelihood restoration would depend on the active
involvement and participation o f affected people to ensure effective utilization o f funds, timely delivery,
proper targeting and transparency. Therefore, the SIPP institutional framework would be followed: (a)
SDF's Partner Organizations wouldbe engaged to mobilize the affected families into "livelihood groups"
and would provide necessary facilitation and shlls needed for the groups and community to plan and
implement their activities and manage funds; (b) the affected families in the community would play a
leading role at the community level; and would have the primary responsibility for planning and
implementing o f community level activities; and managing and monitoring o f the funds. All rules for
beneficiary selection and fund management will be defined by the communities; (c) POs would facilitate
linkage o f the livelihood groups   to the micro-credit agencies and other local government programs to
benefit from on-going programs and funds for medium term livelihood promotion; and (d) SDF would
monitor the program- check compliance with the core principles, ensure that funds are managed
transparently by the communities andproper guidance and technical assistance i s providedby the POs.

7.       Fund Flow and Arrangements: Current community level procurement and financial
management arrangements are workmg well under the on-going SIPP; and these would be adopted for the
implementation o f the livelihood component. For community level livelihood activities, funds would
flow directly from SDF to the communities; the POs would be hired by SDF through a competitive
process; and their role would be to facilitate the communities and linlung them to other micro-credit
agencies andprograms.

Sub-componentB:LivelihoodRestorationunderPKSFProgram(US$l5 million)

8.       OperationalPlan.         SDF will utilize the services o f PKSF, the country's apex microfinance
agency with which the Bank has a long and successful partnership, as the administrator and financial
intermediary to manage development assistance proceeds, monitor lending and recovery performance,
and exercise due diligence inthe use and application o f the proceeds. PKSF will enter into a MOU with
SDF where PKSF and the Partner Organization will be responsible for implementation and SDF will be
responsible for overall monitoring. PKSF management will provide regular reports on the program to
SDF and its GoverningBoard, composed o frepresentatives from the Government, private sector and civil
society. Further details will be specified inthe MOUbetween the SDF and the PKSF, satisfactory to IDA.

9.      PKSF activities under 2007 Floods livelihood restoration would be the same as the program for
the 2004 Floods. The Bank will make available grant o f US$15 million to SDF to disburse to PKSF to be
administered through the Disaster Management Fund (DMF) o f PKSF, w h c h will be operated as a
revolving facility. PKSF will on-lend the h d s to its network o f Partner Organizations (POs) in the
designated vulnerable areas, for lending to eligible beneficiaries. PKSF operates its microcredit financing
through over 200 POs who have extensive grass roots contacts with communities. The POs will assess the


                                                     20

needs o f the affected or vulnerable families, and provide loans for post-disaster rehabilitation, in
accordance with agreed guidelines and terms and conditions.

10.       The initial grant i s estimated to be adequate to provide about 670,000 micro-credit loans, at an
average loan size of Taka 1,500 each. As such, the loan will be o f a small size relative to regular micro-
credit loans, which usually range from Tk 6,000 to 7,000. Annual interest rates are not expected to exceed
4 percent and the typical loan term will be between 12 to 24 months. Further details will be defined ina
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between PKSF and POs, satisfactory to IDA. The program will only be
activated as a response to disasters, and limited to (i)  flood prone areas; (ii) perennially distressed areas;
(iii)river-erosion affected areas; (iv) Char lands; and (v) marginal areas, such as the area affected by
Monga annually.

11.       The POs will be the vehicle to identify, and make loans to beneficiaries for activities eligrble for
support (see below). These POs will use 'their knowledge, experience and grassroots contacts with
communities to assess requirements and repayment capacity. POs will also assess the needs, verify
eligibility criteria, explain the terms and conditions o f the loans to beneficiaries conclude the loan
documents, and set in motion the loan recovery procedure. This program will be in addition to the POs
regular micro-credit operations that are designed for income generation activities. Through their social
mobilization activities, the POs will ensure that the credit culture they have strived to promote i s
maintained.

12.        Flow of Funds. For 2007 Flood Program, the Bank will make available to SDF, through the
Ministryo fFinance US$15 millionto disburse to PKSF inthe form o fgrant. This fundwill be channeled
through the Disaster Management Fund(DMF) operated by PKSF. PKSF will on-lend the funds to POs
charging an interest rate o f about 0.5 percent. POs will be selected according to their location in 2007
Floodaffected regions on the basis o f a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA.POs will on-lend
the funds to beneficiaries, and recover the funds, which will be remitted back to PKSF for deployment in
subsequent years. Following the passing o f funds to individual POs, and submission o f a reimbursement
application with appropriate documents according to the accounting procedure agreed under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the SDF will disburse the funds to PKSF. PKSF will submit semi annual
progress reports o f the operation o f the DMFto the SDF and the Association. However, overall audit o f
this component, includingthe DMF,will be carried out under the SIPP, no later than six monthsafter end
o f the financial year. The existing financial arrangement under SIPP will be applicable for funds
administrated by SDF and also for funds administrated by PKSF.

13.       EligibilityCriteria for Use of DMF.The programwill support post-disaster rehabilitationneeds
o f affected households. Eligible activities include, inter alia, repair o f houses, sinking or replacing
tubewells, repair or replacement o f latrines, and other post-disaster needs, including consumption. The
latter i s critical to mitigate long-term nutritional consequences o f disasters, minimize health risks related
to lack o f adequate nutrition, and ensure quick recovery o fvulnerable householdmembers.

14.       Responsibilitiesof FinancialIntermediary.The responsibilities o fthe PKSF are to: (a) on-lend
the funds to the eligible Partner Organizations (POs), which are part o f its network for managing micro-
credit funds, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (b) decide on the POs that are eligible to receive DMF
allocations, and the amounts o f funds to be disbursed to the POs each year, based on their experience and
any criteria that PKSF will develop; (c) maintain a separate account for operations o f the DMF; (d) cause
all POs to maintain separate accounts o f receipts, lending and loan recovery performance; (e) monitor on-
lending activities by POs to ensure conformity with lending criteria; (f) monitor repayment performance
and take necessary action to ensure that POs maintain a satisfactory recovery performance; (g) submit
semi-annual progress reports o f the operations o f the DMF to SDF and the World Bank; and (h) keep the
SDF Board and PKSF Board appraised o f developments concerning the DMF.


                                                       21

15.    Responsibilities of SDF. SDF will (a) monitor the DMF activities coordinated by PKSF to
ensure conformity with eligible criteria for use o f DMF; (b) be responsible for overall monitoring; (c)
submit to the World Bank annually audited financial statements o f the livelihood component, including
the DMF part, including the opinion o f the auditors, no later than six months after end o f the financial
year. Further details will be specified inthe MOUbetween the SDF and the PKSF, satisfactory to IDA.

16.     Responsibilitiesof POs. The POswill recover the loans and remit the recovered funds to PKSF,
based on the terms of their Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The POs will be responsible for recording
disbursement o f loans given to poor and vulnerable clients and the recoveries, and for reporting these to
PKSF.

17.     As noted, PKSF will prepare a consolidated report, indicatingactivities o feachPOand will
furnishthat to SDF quarterly. BothPKSFandPOswillbe answerable to audit queries.




                                                    22

                         ANNEX 4: DescriptionofProjectsmakingpart of
                 Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance Program


Municipal Services Project (MSP) (Cr. 3177) Project ID: PO41887

                                                                               Board Approval: 0311611999
                                                                                  Closingdate: 06/30/2008
                                                                                            Age: 8.5 years
                                                     Amount Reallocated to the Program: US$25.0 million
                                                          Original Commitment Amount: US$137.9 million
                                                                      Undisbursed balance: US$23.1 million
                                                   Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Satisfactory
                                                             Overall ImplementationProgress: Satisfactory

Project Development Objective:
To improve urban environment, infrastructure and services, and, to that end, to: (a) strengthen the
institutionalcapacity o f selected municipalities and city corporations; (b) improve resource allocation
and fiscal discipline; and (c) support governmental efforts to reduce urban poverty and improve the
environmental conditions o f urban communities.

Impact of Reallocation:
Project development objectives will not change significantly due to additional financing. The project
activities will be scaled up and targets enhanced. The project i s performingwell. Project implementation
was affected, inter alia, by delays in getting Bangladesh Municipal DevelopmentFundcreated under the
project off the ground, but good progress has beenmade recently. The implementing agency, LGED, has
good performance record. The implementing agency has capacity to implement additional works under
the 2007 Floods which are perfectly coherent with the project activities. The Government has requested
additional funds to cover additional expenditures related to flood damage restoration to the municipal
infrastructure. Additional funding o f US$25million will be provided to the Project. The Credit closing
date would have to be extended to June 30, 2011. The Bank Team has started worlung with the
implementingagency in defining detailed work plans defining targets. These will be finalized over next
two months and changes will be introduced into the project documents as necessary. Amendment would
be made to D C A subsequently ifneeded.




Rural TransDort ImDrovementProiect (Cr. 3791) Proiect ID:PO71435

                                                                               Board Approval: 06/19/2003
                                                                                  Closing Date: 06/30/2009
                                                                                            Age: 4.2 years
                                                     Amount Reallocated to the Program: US$20.0 million
                                                          Original Commitment Amount: US$190.0 million
                                                                    Undisbursed balance: US$112.6 million
                                                   Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Satisfactory
                                                 Overall Implementation Progress: Moderately Satisfactory




                                                     23

Project Development Objective:
The development objectives o fthe project are to provide rural communities with improved access
to social services and economic opportunity, and to enhance the capacity o f relevant government
institutions to better manage rural transport infrastructure.

Impact of Reallocation:
Project development objectives will not change significantly due to additional financing. The project
activities are likely to be scaled up and targets will be revised. The project is performing well. The
implementing agency, LGED, has good performance record and has capacity to implement addition
works under the 2007 Floods. The Government has requested additional funds to cover additional
expenditures related to flood damage restoration to the rural roads under this project. US$7 million are
available from the savings. Additional financing o f US$20 million will be allocated to the Project under
disbursement category 1 works. The Credit closing date would have to be extended to June 30, 2011.
The Bank mission has started workmg with the implementing agency in defining detailed work plans,
and targets. These will be finalized over next two months. The changes will be introducedinthe project
documents ifnecessary along with the amendments to DCA.



Social Investment Program Project (Cr. 3740) Project ID: PO53578

                                                                                  Board Approval: 03/18/2003
                                                                                      Closing date: 09/30/2009
                                                                                                 Age: 4.8 years
                                                        Amount Reallocated to the Program: US$25.O million
                                                              Olginal Commitment Amount: US$26.2 million
                                                                         Undisbursedbalance: US$12.6 million
                                              Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Highly Satisfactory
                                                                 Overall ImplementationProgress: Satisfactory


Project Development Objective:
The objective o f the project i s to develop effective and efficient financing and institutionalarrangements
for improving access to local infrastructure and basic services throughthe implementationo f community-
driven small-scale infrastructure works and social assistance programs.

Impact of Reallocation:
Project development objectives will remain the same. The project activities will be scaled up and targets
will be revised. The project would be allocated US$25 million IDA Grant funds that would be cancelled
from Water Supply Program Project (disbursement category 1, community infrastructure sub-project
(small scale). The project area i s Jamalpur and Gaibandha districts, which rank among the highest in
poverty incidence, both interms o f income and human development. The project i s implemented through
SDF and its POs. The project activities would be expanded into neighboring districts as well and US10
million (out o f US$25 million) will be used to carry out livelihood restoration o f communities directly
affected by the 2007 Floods. The remaining US$15 million would be transferredto PKSF to support 2007
Flood restoration activities. The project team has started working with PKSF to define the activities in
the flood affected areas. The scope o f project activities and targets would be revised over the next three
months. Project closing date would be extended to June 30,201 1.




                                                       24

Water Supply ProgramProject (H1010) Project ID: PO41887

                                                                                Board Approval: 06/17/2004
                                                                                   Closing Date: 04/30/2010
                                                                                              Age: 3.2 years
                               Amount to be Cancelled and Reallocated to the Program: US$25.0 million
                                                           Onginal Commitment Amount: US$40.0 million
                                                                      Undisbursed balance: US$40.6 million
                                   Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                              Overall Implementation Progress: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Project Development Objective:
The development objective o f the proposed project i s to contribute to Bangladesh's efforts to achieve the
Millennium Development Goals in water supply and sanitation by 2015. Specifically, the project will
pilot innovative measures to scale up the provision o f safe water supply free from arsenic and pathogens
in rural areas and small towns. This will take place by (i)promoting rural piped water supply with
private-sector participation, (ii)
                                 promoting private-sector participation in water supply in municipalities
(pourashavas), (iii)implementingarsenic mitigation measures inarsenic-affected villages, (iv) supporting
development o f adequate regulations, monitoring, capacity building and training, (v) supporting the
development o f a local credit market for village piped water supply, and (vi) implementing a monitoring
and evaluation system for the project.

Impact of Reallocation:
The project implementation has not taken o f f well. The project i s beingrestructured, project objectives
and targets will be revised. A mission to start restructuring o f the project was undertaken during October
2007.   Meanwhile, GOB has requested the cancellation o f the grant funds and allocation to the Social
Investment ProgramProject (Cr. 3740) for livelihood restoration component o f the 2007 FloodProgram.
Some funds (about US$5.0 million) can be used for restoration o f water supply and sanitation facilities
within the project. US$25 million will be cancelled from the Project and re-allocated to SIPP. Funds
would be cancelled from disbursement categories 2 an 3 Subproject Rural and Subprojects Urban US$8
million respectively, 4 consulting services US$1.7, 5 Training and Studies US$1.5, 8 credit markets
(sub-loans) US$2.6 million and 10 unallocated US$3.2. The project will be restructured fully over the
next few months and project documents will be submitted to the Board subsequently.




Local Governance Support Project (Cr. 4193) Project ID:PO98273

                                                                                Board Approval: 06/15/2006
                                                                                    Closing date: 06/30/2011
                                                                                              Age: 1.3 years
                                                   Amount to be Reallocated to Program: US$20.0 million
                                                         Original Commitment Amount: US$111.5 million
                                                                     Undisbursed balance: US$112.6 million
                                      Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Overall ImplementationProgress: Moderately Satisfactory


Project Development Objective:



                                                     25

The project development objective (PDO) o f the Local Governance Support Project (LGSP) i s to develop
accountable Local Governments (LGs) providing services that meet community priorities, supported by a
predictable and transparent fiscal transfer system. Achievement o f the PDO will be measured in terms o f
maintaining a significantly scaled-up level o f basic service provision at the Upazila levels, as compared
with previous years. Indicators to monitor progress will be (i) o f LGs receiving block grants; (ii)
                                                                  95%
95% o f LGs having annual audits; (iii) o f LGs holding open budget consultations; and (iv) 30%
                                          95%
increase inpeople satisfied by UP activities over the baseline.

Impact of Reallocation:
The project implementation i s just starting. The project development objectives will not be changed.
GOB has requested cancellation o fUS$20 million from this project andreallocation to the MSP for 2007
Flood Program. At this stage project would not face shortage o f funds and project activities will not be
curtailed. Ifproject implementation accelerate and inyear four o f the there i s any short o f funds, needed
funds will be providedthrough Additional Financing.

US$20 million are proposed to be cancelled (from disbursement category 1 Subgrants for subprojects
under Part A o f the Project) for and allocated to the Municipal Services Project (Cr. 3177) for
rehabilitation o f municipal infrastructure damaged during 2007 Floods. In addition, US$lO million
would be allocated within the project for 2007 Flood Rehabilitation(from category 1).

Water Management ImDrovement Proiect (Cr. 4359) Proiect ID: PO40712

                                                                               Board Approval: 09/17/2007
                                                                                  Closing date: 06/30/2015
                                                                                               Age: 0.1 years
                                                       Amount Reallocatedto the Program: USS8.0 million
                                                         Original Commitment Amount: US$136.7 million
                                                                   Undisbursed balance: US$136.7 million
                                                Latest ISRRating: Progress Towards PDO: ISR not created
                                                         Overall ImplementationProgress: ISRnot created

Project Development Objective:
The primary Project Development Objective (PDO) o f the proposed project i s to improve national water
resources management by involving the local communities to play an expanded role in all stages o f the
participatory scheme cycle management, from planning and design to operations and management. The
secondary objective i s to enhance institutional performance o f the Country's principal water institutions,
particularly BWDB and WARPO. This i s expected to result in reduced vulnerability and enhanced
livelihood opportunities for the beneficiaries, and will also create a favorable environment for improved
water resources management by the core water institutions, in partnership with the beneficiaries. The
PDO would be achieved by gradually changing a centralized top down approach to a more decentralized
and participatory water sector management approach for efficient and sustainable operations and
management o fthe existingFCDRCDIschemes.

 Impact of Reallocation:
 Project development objectives and project activities will not change. US$S million will be cancelled
 (from disbursement category 10 unallocated) and re-allocated to the Rural Transport Improvement
 Project (Cr. 3791).    In addition, US$26 million would be used within the project to rehabilitate
 embankments, FCD and FCDI schemes (from disbursement categories l a and lb). Repairs to the
 embankment and FCD, FCDI schemes would be carried out by the BWDB. This a seven year project
 with two mid-term reviews. The project team has already started discussion with implementing agency



                                                     26

regarding the use o f funds for 2007 FRRP. Cancellation of funds is not likely to have a significant
 impact on the project activities. If project implementation proceeds better than planned, then any
 shortage o f funds inlater years o fthe project can be addressed by providing additional financing.




Post-Literacy andContinuingEducation(PLCE) Cr. 3467 ProjectID:P050752

                                                                                Board Approval: 02/27/2001
                                                                                   Closing Date: 12/31/2007
                                                                                                Age:6.8 Years
                                  Amount to be Cancelled and Reallocation to the Program: US$17 million
                                                           Onginal Commitment Amount: US$53.3 million
                                                                     Undisbursed balance: US$23.9 million
                                        Latest ISRRating: Progress Towards PDO: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Overall ImplementationProgress: Moderately Satisfactory


ProjectDevelopmentObjective:
 Support the neo-literate inmaintaining literacy slulls andproviding slulls training to strengthen their
 capacities to earn income and improve their standard o f living.

 Impactof Reallocation:
 The project i s closing on December 31, 2007. The project activities have been nearly completed and
 there are estimated savings o f US$12 million that would be cancelled and reallocated to the 2007 Flood
 Programto the Rural Transport Improvement Project (Cr. 3791) and US$5 million will be cancelled and
 allocated to the Municipal Services Project (Cr. 3177). US$3 million will come from category 2 and
 US$14 million will come from category 3. The cancellation will have no negative impact on achieving
 project development objectives.




Health,NutritionandPopulationSector Program(Cr. 4052) Project ID:P074841

                                                                                 Board Approval: 04/28/2005
                                                                                     Closing date: 12/31/2010
                                                                                               Age: 2.6 Years
                                                        Amount to be used for the Program: US$2.0 million
                                                               Total amount o fthe Program: US$4.3 billion
                                                          Original Commitment Amount: US$300.0 million
                                                                   Undisbursed balance: US$168.3 million
                                     Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                               Overall ImplementationProgress: Moderately Unsatisfactory

ProjectDevelopmentObjective:
The project assists GOB inthe implementation o f its 2003-2010 Health, Nutrition and Population Sector
Program. It i s doing so incooperation with a large group o f development partners through a SWAP. Five
development partners have pooled finances with the Bank for a total of US$750 million including the
IDA credit o fUSD 300 million. The mainpurpose o fthe Project is to increase availability and utilization


                                                      27

o f user-centered, effective, efficient, equitable, affordable and accessible quality services, be it the
Essential Services Package, improved hospital services, nutritional services or other selected services. To
achieve these objectives, the program will focus on three major reform areas: (I, Strengthening Public
Health Sector Management and Stewardship Capacity, through development o f pro-poor targeting
measures as well as strengthening sector-wide governance mechanisms;                  (ii)Health Sector
Diversification, through the development o f new delivery channels for publicly and non-publicly
financed services; (iii) Stimulating Demand for essential services by poor households through health
advocacy and demand-side financing options.

Impact of Reallocation:
 Project development objectives have not been significantly affected by the reallocation. The project is
 performing well. Funds will be used for rehabilitation o f health facilities affected by the 2007 Floods
 (disbursement category 4 works), in consultation with the development partners participating in the
 SWAP. In case o f additional funding needs (commodities, operations and rehabilitation) the MOHFW
 can reallocate within its budgets to meet these needs. HNF'SP Apex Governance body i s the National
 Steering Committee (NSC) that has authority for reallocating finances o f upto Taka 50 crore (USD 7m).
 This i s chaired by the Health MinistedAdviser and has representatives from the Finance, Planning, ERD
 and IMED.



Primary EducationDevelopment Project I1(Cr. 3857) Project ID:PO74966

                                                                               Board Approval: 02/24/2004
                                                                                  Closing Date: 06/30/2010
                                                                                             Age: 4.0 years
                                                       Amount Reallocated to the Program: US$0.2 million
                                                             Original Commitment Amount: US$lSO million
                                                                       Undisbursedbalance: US$95 million
                                        Latest ISR Rating: Progress Towards PDO: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Overall ImplementationProgress: Moderately Satisfactory



Project Development Objective:
The objective o f the project i s to improve quality, equitable access, and efficiency in primary education
through a sub-sector program approach.          Specifically, the program will assist the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) to: (a) improve the quality o f teaching and learning and raise student achievement; (b)
increase access to schooling for the disadvantaged; and (c) strengthen planning and management o f
primary education, including establishing a national monitoring and evaluation system for primary
education.    The Primary Education Development Program 11(PEDPII) covers only Government and
govemment-supported schools. However, GOB i s committed to finding means to extend Government
support to other schools, includingNGO learning centers.

Impact of Reallocation:
Only US$0.2 million will be allocated for rehabilitation o f schools affected by 2007 Floods. Funds
would be used for rehabilitationwork after reaching an agreement within the SWAP partners. The credit
closing date is June 30, 2010 and would not require any extension




                                                     28

TeamLeader        Masood Ahmad           Lead Water Resources Specialist
                  Mohi U z Zaman Quazi   Sr Transport Engineer, SASDT
Country Unit        hamedA. Toure            erations Advisor, SACBD
                                                tions Analyst, SACBD
Macroeconomy
RuraYAgriculture                              ter Resources Specialist ,SASDA


                                             gation Engineer, SASAR
                                              ior Economist, SASDA


F.Management       urhanuddin Ahmed         Financial Management Specialist, SASFM
                                          ead Financial Management SP. SARFM
Procurement                               ead Procurement Specialist, SASPS
HumanDev.
                                              Operations Officer, SASHD


                                            Urb.Specialist, SASDU



                                          onsultant, SASDA




                   .M.RezwanU1Alam
 isasterManagement hristopher Pusch
                  E                         gional Coordinator, Disaster Management
                   ishor Uprety             Counsel, LEGMS
 oan              phau-Ching Shen        ISr. Finance Office, LOAFC




                                      29


                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 35841

                                     89                                              90                                       91                                         92
                           Tista                                                                                              BANGLADESH
                    Panchagar   R.                                                   EMERGENCY 2007 FLOOD RESTORATION
               PANCHAGAR                                                              AND RECOVERY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
      THAKURGAON
26                                                        R.
      Thakurgaon           NILPHAMARI                                                          % OF AFFECTED                                                                                       26
                                Nilphamari  LALMONIRHA
                                                     Dharla


                                                                                                 POPULATION              % OF AFFECTED AREA                               DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                      TLalmonirhat                 R.
                                                                                                                                          0 - 15                          DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                              KURIGRAM                                 0 - 10

                  DINAJPUR                                                                                                                15 - 30
                                         Rangpur        Kurigram                                       10 - 20                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                          30 - 45
                      Dinajpur             RANGPUR                      Brahmaputra                    20 - 30                            45 - 60                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                       30 - 40                            60 - 80                         DIVISION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                       40 - 55                            UNAFFECTED                      INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                            BOUNDARIES
                                                  Gaibandha
                                                     GAIBANDHA

                                    JOYPURHAT                                          SERPUR
                                         Joypurhat
                                                                                                                                        Sunamganj
25                 NAOGAON
                          R A J S H A H I                                                Serpur                                                                                                    25

                                                                     Jamalpur                                  NETROKONA                                                 SYLHET
                   Naogaon                       BOGRA                                                                Netrokona               SUNAMGANJ                   Sylhet
                                                       Bogra         Jamuna   JAMALPUR
                                                                                                       Mymensingh
   NOWABGANJ                                                                 R.                                                                     S Y L H E T
                                                                                                   MYMENSINGH
           Nowabganj                                                                                D H A K A
                                                                                                                            Kishorganj
   Ganges                                                                                                                                                         MOULVI BAZAR
                 RAJSHAHI                                  Serajganj
                                         Natore                                       TANGAIL                                                   HABIGANJ           Moulvi
         R.          Rajshahi                           SERAJGANJ                                                        KISHORGANJ                                Bazar

                                      NATORE                                          Tangail

                                                                                                       GAZIPUR                  MeghnaR.            Habiganj



                                                 PABNA
                                           Pabna                                                       Gazipur    NARSINGDI
24                                                                                                                                   BRAHMAN                                                      24
                              KUSHTIA                                                                                                    BARIA                                 I N D I A
                                  Kushtia                                                                           Narsingdi           Brahmanbaria
                                                                      Manikanj               DHAKA
                    MEHERPUR                                               MANIKGANJ
                     Meherpur                           RAJBARI   Rajbari                    DHAKA        NARAYNGANJ
                                Chuadanga
                       CHUADANGA                     Madhumati                                                Naraynganj

                                        Jhenaidah             R.              Faridpur                                    COMILLA
                                                        Magura                                                 Munshiganj
                                                                                                 MUNSHIGANJ
                                    JHENAIDAH                        FARIDPUR                     Padma                        Comilla

                                                  MAGURA                                                   R.
                                                                                                    SARIATPUR      CHANDPUR
                                                          Narail                       MADARIPUR     Sariatpur    Chandpur                                            KHAGRACHHARI

      I N D I A                      Jessore                                             Madaripur                                                                           Khagrachhari
                                        JESSORE            NARAIL
23                                     K H U L N A                     GOPALGANJ
                                                                             Gopalganj                                                              Feni                                           23

                                                                                                                    LUXMIPUR                        FENI
                                                                                                BARISAL                  Luxmipur

                                                     Khulna                                                                        NOAKHALI
                                                                                                                                        Noakhali
                                        Satkhira    KHULNA                                             Barisal                                      C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                     PEROJPUR                    Bhola hna R.
                                                                                                                      Meg
                                     SATKHIRA                                                   Jhalukathi
                                                               Bagerhat                                                                                                              Rangamati
                                                                                           JHALUKATHI
                                                                  BAGERHAT             Perojpur                                                                                     RANGAMATI

                                                                                                 B A R I S A L                                                 CHITTAGONG              R.

                                                                                                     Patuakhali                                                              Karnaphuli
                                                                                                                   BHOLA                                    Chittagong
                                                                                                     PATUAKHALI

                                                                                             Borguna                                                                                   Bandarban
                                                                                         BARGUNA
22                                                                                                                                                                                                22




                                                                                                                                                                            COX'S      BANDARBAN


                                                                                                                                                                            BAZAR


                                                                                                                                                                  Cox's Bazar

                                                                  Bay                                        0       25        50          75      100

                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS


                       BANGLADESH                                   of                                                                                                                   MYANMAR
                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   21
                                                                Bengal                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                      90                                       91                                         92

                                                                                                                                                                                         DECEMBER 2007

