Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3177-1-BD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Municipal Services Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 7, 2008  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3177-1-BD 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 7, 2008, entered into between 
PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined by cross-
reference in the Appendix to this Agreement
)
to help in meeting the Recipient’s increased 
funding requirement caused by the impact of floods that hit the Recipient’s territory in 
August 2007.  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Original Financing Agreement (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
fifteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 15,800,000) (
“Additional Credit”) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02.    The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Additional Credit in accordance 
with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Additional 
Credit Balance shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Additional Credit shall be repaid in accordance with 
the repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or 
any Joint Secretary, or Deputy Secretary, or Senior Assistant Secretary, or 
Assistant Secretary, or Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief, or Senior Assistant Chief, or 
Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
642226 SETU BJ 
 
88028113088 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. The 
Assoc
iation’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By 
/s/ Md. Aminul Islam Bhuiyan
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Xian Zhu 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve urban environment, infrastructure and 
services, and, to that end, to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of selected 
municipalities and city corporations; (b) improve resource allocation and fiscal discipline; 
and (c) support governmental efforts to reduce urban poverty and improve the 
environmental conditions of urban communities.  
 
The Project consists of the Original Project.
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination 
 
The provisions of Schedules 5 and 6 to the Original Financing Agreement are 
incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis mutandis
.
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
one (1) month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works, shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Procurement of Goods and Works through the Recipient’s Procurement 
Regulations
.
Within the overall context of the Procurement Guidelines, local 
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per contract, and 
works estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000 per contract, will follow the 
Recipient’s Procurement Laws. The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement to be used in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Laws. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used:
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding  
(b)  
Shopping 
(c) Direct 
Contracting 
3.
 
For the purpose of National Competitive Bidding, the following shall apply: (a) 
post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any 
other bidder; (b) bids should be submitted and opened in public in one location 
Page  8
-
7
-
immediately after the deadline for submission; and (c) rebidding shall not be 
carried out, except with the Association’s prior agreement. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants
’
Services 
 
Within the overall context of Consultant Guidelines, local procurement of 
services of firms (for which the shortlist may be comprised entirely of national 
consultants) estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, and services of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract will 
follow the Recipient’s Procurement Laws. The following table specifies methods 
of procurement, to be used in accordance with the Consultants’ Guidelines for 
services procured internationally or the Recipient’s Procurement Laws for 
services procured locally. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)   Quality-based Selection 
(b)   Fixed Budget Selection 
(c)   Consultants Qualification 
(d)   Single Source Selection 
(e)   Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  (a) 
for goods, contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more; (b) for 
works, contracts estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more; (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for services of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (e) qualification 
and terms of reference of individual consultants contract below equivalent of 
$50,000; and (f) all contracts for goods procured under direct contracting and 
consultants’ services procured under single source selection.  
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
E. Other 
Undertakings 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (i) implement the Procurement Risk Mitigation Framework 
(PRMF
); (ii) include the consultant’s representative as a mandatory member in 
each bid evaluation committee; (iii) submit to the Association consultant’s 
quarterly report covering the bidding process, implementation of PRMF, and 
quality of works. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall: (i) prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, 
furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, and in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines, a 
procurement plan, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable procurement procedures;  (ii) update such 
plan at least every twelve (12) months during the execution of the Project always 
covering the next eighteen (18) months, and furnish each such updating to the 
Association for its review and approval; and (iii) carry out the procurement of all 
goods and works in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Additional Credit 
 
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Additional Credit in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Credit (“Category”), the 
allocations of the amounts of the Additional Credit to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each 
Category: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Category 
Amount of the Additional 
Credit Allocated  
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1) Civil Works (for flood 
damage rehabilitation 
works) 
13,840,000 80% 
 
(2)  
Consultants’ services and  
training 
 
630,000 80% 
(3) Unallocated 
 
1,330,000  
 
TOTAL 
     15,800,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Additional 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 1 and August 1: 
 
commencing February 1, 2018 to and 
including August 1, 2027 
 
1% 
commencing February 1, 2028 to and 
including August 1, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Additional 
Credit to be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to  
Section 3.03(b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
All definitions contained in the Original Financing Agreement at Article I, 
Section 1.02 are incorporated by reference in this Additional Financing Agreement, and 
shall apply 
mutatis mutandis
 to the Additional Financing Agreement.  
 
Section II.  
Other Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006, and apply to the selection and employment of 
consultants using the proceeds of the Additional Credit. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Municipal Services Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
April  26, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 3177-BD). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October, 2006, and apply to the procurement of goods, works and non consultant 
services using the proceeds of the Additional Credit. 
8. 
“Procurement Act” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act of 2006. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, to be prepared 
by the Recipient in accordance with paragraph E.2 of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
10. 
“Procurement Regulations” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement 
Regulations dated October 1, 2003. 
11. 
“Procurement Laws” include collectively the Recipient’s Public Procurement 
Regulations dated October 1, 2003, and the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act 
2006. 
Section III.
 
The modification to the General Conditions shall be as follows
:
1. 
The term “Credit” in paragraph 15 of the Appendix shall be deemed to also 
include this Additional Credit, and all references to “Credit”, throughout the 
General Conditions, shall be deemed to be references to this Additional Credit.  
 
