                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                        Report No: 54137-BD




                                     PROJECT PAPER

                                            ON A

                           PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.8 MILLION
                            (US$42 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                           FOR A

                            MUNICIPAL SERVICES PROJECT




                                        May 26,2010




Sustainable Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,20 10)
                       Currency Unit    =   Taka (Tk)
                          Tk69.075      =   US$1
                        US$1.51112      =   SDRl

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 - June 30


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA    Analytical and Advisory Activity
ADP    Annual Development Program
BMDF   Bangladesh Municipal Development Fund
FDR    Flood Damage Rehabilitation
FM     Financial Management
LGED   Local Government Engineering Department, MLG
MLG    Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MSP    Municipal Services Project
MSU    Municipal Support Unit, LGED
O&M    Operation and Maintenance
PPA    Public Procurement Act, 2006
PRMF   Procurement Risk Mitigation Framework
TA     Technical Assistance
ULB    Urban Local Bodies




                      Vice President:       Isabel Guerrero
                    Country Director:       Ellen Goldstein
                     Sector Manager:        William Kingdom
                   Task Team Leader:        Songsu Choi, Zahed Khan
                                                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                       PAPER
                                                                 PROJECT


                                                                Table of Contents



         Project Paper Data Sheet                     ............................................................................................    ...
                                                                                                                                                      111



         I.         Introduction          .........................................................................................................    1
         11.        Background and Rationale for Additional Financing                             .....................................                1
         111.       Proposed Changes ...............................................................................................                   3
         IV.        Appraisal Summary ............................................................................................                     4


              Annexes
         1. Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators                              ....................................................              7
         2.    Project Description .................................................................................................                  10




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                11
                                   PRCNECTPAPERDATASHEET
Date: May 26,2010                               Team Leader: Songsu Choi, Zahed Khan
Country: Bangladesh                             Sector Director: John H. Stein
Project Name: Municipal Services                Country Director: Ellen A. Goldstein
Original Project ID: PO41 887                   Environmental Category: B
AF Project ID: P 1 17740                        O W rating: N/A
Borrower: Government of Bangladesh
Responsible agency: Bangladesh Municipal
Development Fund (BMDF) & Local
Government Engineering Department (LGED)




Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                 o Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                o Yes o No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 o Yes X N o
                                                                        I

Revised project development objectives/outcome: Not applicable


Does the project trigger any new safeguard policies? No

                                   For Additional Financing
 [ ] Loan [ XI Credit [ ] Grant For
 Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 42.0
        Proposed terms: 40 years maturity including 10 years grace
                              Financing Plan (US$m.) (AF)
               Source                                            Total
BorrowerRecipient (Participating Municipalities)                            4.0
IDA      .                                                                 42.0
Total                                                                      46.0
                         Financing Plan (uS$m.) (Original project + AF)
              Source                                               Total
BorrowerRecipient                                                        15.4
TDA                                                                     166.0
   -New                                                                  42.0
rota1                                                                  223.4




                                               ...
                                               111
I. Introduction
1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
credit in an amount of SDR 27.8 million ( U S 4 2 million equivalent) to the Municipal Services
Project (Credit No. 3 177-BD).

2.      The proposed additional credit would help finance the scaling up of improvements in
urban infrastructure and the municipal financial and management capacity. The Project has so far
financed the rehabilitation or construction of urban infrastructure in about 130 municipalities (and
the repair and rehabilitation of flood-damaged infrastructure in 195 towns), as well as a capacity
strengthening program of 92 municipalities. These activities have been carried out well and
resulted in significant benefits as well as strong demand for additional support. The proposed
additional credit would help extend the partial financing of urban infrastructure improvements to
some 170 towns, and extend the municipal capacity strengthening program to about 142
                   '


municipalities, out of 3 15 urban local bodies (ULBs) of Bangladesh. Further, the additional
financing would support the development of a next generation of urban improvement programs.

3.      The proposed additional financing would be the second one to help scale up the core
components of the Project. In recognition of the good early implementation record under the
Project, an additional financing of $25 million was approved in 2008 to help rehabilitate the
damages to urban infrastructure as a part of the Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery
Assistance Program.

II. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing

4.      Bangladesh has been urbanizing rapidly since Independence. The urban population has
doubled since 1990, now representing about 26% of the national total population. The number
of municipalities has nearly tripled from 110 in 1991 to 3 16 now. The earlier urban growth,
driven mainly by rural displacement by social and agricultural transformation, was even faster
and overwhelmed the limited fiscal and managerial capacity of the government, resulting in rapid
deterioration of living conditions and the environment for urban residents.

5.       The Municipal Services Project (MSP) was conceived in this situation with the objective
to improve urban environment, infrastructure and services, and to that end, to (a) strengthen the
institutional capacity of selected municipalities and city corporations; (b) improve resource
allocation and fiscal discipline; and (c) support governmental efforts to reduce urban poverty and
improve the environmental conditions of urban communities.

6.     The credit of SDR 100 million (then equivalent to US$ 138.6 million, actual
disbursement of US$14 1.5 million) approved in March 1999 financed the following components:

       (a) Urban infrastructure construction and rehabilitation, planned and implemented by
       municipalities, financed through the Bangladesh Municipal Development Fund (BMDF);

       (b) Urban infrastructure construction and rehabilitation in about 20 municipalities
       planned and carried out before BMDF's establishment;

       (c) Rehabilitation of urban infrastructure damaged by floods; and

                                                 1
       (d) Institutional Development for creation and operation of BMDF and a Municipal
       Support Unit (MSU) under the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED).

7.      LGED has been responsible for preparing the project and implementing the components
(b), (c), and part of (d) above. In view of its demonstrated implementation competence, $15
million of the credit was reallocated from the BMDF component (a) of the Project, along with
$1 1 million from another project, to the flood damage rehabilitation (FDR) component (c) after
the 2004 floods. After another severe flood in 2007, the Project was allocated an additional
credit of SDR15.8 million (now,equivalent to US$24.5 million, Cr. 3177-1-BD) for FDR works.

8.      The creation and development of BMDF has been an important aim of the Project, to
improve the efficiency and sustainability of municipal investments. Its establishment - jointly
by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives - was delayed by more than three years, resulting in a significant delay in the entire
project as well as the reallocation of the credit to the FDR mentioned above. Since then,
however, it has developed into a competent project appraisal and management entity, supporting
urban infrastructure investments in 11 1 municipalities so far, including over 200 km of drains,
over 160 km of water supply lines, 23 bus and truck terminals, and over 100 public toilets. The
subproject financing consists of 10% by the beneficiary municipality, and the rest by the IDA
credit of which 10% is repaid to BMDF over 20 years.

9.      For institutional development of municipalities the Project also supported the creation
and operation of MSU, a unit within LGED. It has provided technical assistance and training for
the development of management information systems and revenue enhancement measures in 133
municipalities including four City Corporations so far, including 4 1 municipalities, TA for which
has been financed recently by Asian Development Bank. The capacity building measures
supported include: computerization and improved management of Holding Tax bills and records,
municipal accounts, water supply bills and records, Trade License records; development of
Infrastructure Inventory and preparation of base maps; and support for community mobilization.

10.     While the Project implementation started out slowly, the overall Implementation Progress
(IP) has become satisfactory and progress towards achievement of the Development Objective
(DO) has also been rated satisfactory. There are no problem flags and all key credit covenants
are complied with. The closing date was extended along with the additional credit for the 2007
FDR, to June 30, 201 1. All credit has been disbursed except US$4.07 million of the credit 3 177-
1 for the 2007 FDR by the end of 2009.

 11.    In general, Bangladesh municipalities generate little own revenues (less than $4 per
capita) and depend entirely upon central government grants or programs for the meager
infrastructure investments (about $7 per capita). Practices adopted under the Project for
municipal institutional and infrastructure development represent significant improvements:
greater authority and responsibility of the municipalities in selecting and implementing the
investments with matching operational and financial plans, substantial self- and loan-financing
requirements, improved project evaluation and management, improved municipal management
and revenue systems. Extending these advances remains an important challenge, along with the
evolution of policy frameworks for local governance and urban development. The Bank Group
is currently assisting the Government for developing these policy frameworks, and part of the
additional financing proposed here would be allocated to the development of an improved urban
investment and capacity building program.
                                                2
12.    In the meanwhile, it would be highly beneficial to continue the Project's successful
program of infrastructure and capacity building support, for which there is a large unmet
demand. While several bilateral agencies as well as the Asian Development Bank are providing
considerable aid for urban development, their programs are targeted to a small number of pre-
selected municipalities.

111. Proposed Changes

13.    The Project's development objectives, project design, and implementation arrangements
would remain unchanged, except some tightening up of fiduciary controls as detailed in the next
Section. The main proposed changes consist of the scaling up of the urban infrastructure and
capacity building programs as follows:




14.     In addition to the extension of the support for the 40 newly participating municipalities,
the BMDF proposes to provide follow-up financing to 16 municipalities which have made a
particularIy good use of the first financing and can carry out hrther investments. MSU would
also provide continued trouble-shooting to the 133 municipalities which have received the
package of capacity building supports.


       Component                                   Existing Additional              Total
                                                   Credit * Financing
       Urban infrastructure financing through BMDF      62.5     40.1               102.6
       BMDF project management                            1.5      1.5                3.0
       Urban infrastructure investment by LGED          47.3         0               47.3
       Flood damage rehabilitation*                     55.7         0               55.7
       Support for municipal capacity building           2.5       1.6                4.1
       Other Technical Assistance                        6.2       1.9                8.1
       Incremental Operating cost (LGED & BMDF)           1.7      0.9                2.6
       Total                                           177.4     46.0               223.4




                                                3
IV. Appraisal Summary

Institution a1

 15.    The Project is being executed by participating municipalities through two central
agencies, LGED and the BMDF. The former is a Department under the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLG), and the latter is a government-
owned company under the Ministry of Finance. The Board of Directors of the BMDF is chaired
by the Secretary of the Local Government Division of the MLG and includes members
representing the Ministry of Finance and the ULBs. These executing agencies have developed
and demonstrated their effectiveness in implementing the respective parts of the Project, and will
continue to carry out the same responsibilities with the additional financing. LGED will carry
out the additional component - technical assistance for development of an improved urban
infrastructure and capacity development program.

16.     Consistent with the Project's focus on developing the municipal capacity, the
participating municipalities would be required to prepare and carry out an adequate Financial and
Operating Plan as a condition of the infrastructure financing.

Economic Analysis

17.     An analysis of a sample of subprojects at the time of the initial project appraisal
demonstrated an average economic rate of return of 26.4%. While similar analysis has not been
performed for the new batch of the subprojects proposed, it is expected that similarly high
economic return would continue since the substantial under-provision of public infrastructure
persists, especially in the municipalities receiving BMDF financing for the first time, whereas
the demand has increased with the growth of population and incomes.

Procurement

 18.    Procurement for the proposed additional financing would be carried out in accordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
May 2004 (Revised October 2006 and May 2010); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 (Revised October 2006 and May
2010), and the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement. Within the overall context of
Bank's Guidelines, local procurement of goods (less than US$300,000 per contract), works (less
than US$5,000,000 per contract) and services (firms for less than US$200,000 per contract for
which the shortlist entirely consists of national consultants and individual consultants for less
than US$50,000 per contract) will follow the Government's Public Procurement Act 2006 (PPA),
with the following exceptions applicable to national competitive bidding (goods and works):

       (a) post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other
       bidder;
       (b) bids should be submitted and opened in public in one location immediately after the
       deadline for submission;
       (c) rebidding shall not be carried out, except with the Association's prior agreement;
       (d) lottery in award of contracts shall not be allowed;
       (e) bidders' qualification / experience requirement shall be mandatory;
       (f) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage above or below the estimated cost
       and contract award shall be based on the lowest evaluated bid price of compliant bid from
       eligible and qualified bidder; and
       (g) single stage two envelope procurement system shall not be allowed.

19.     In case of any conflict between the Bank Guidelines and the PPA or ambiguous or
confusing interpretation in their provisions, the Bank Guidelines and the Association's
interpretation shall prevail.

20.    For each contract to be financed by the additional financing, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and
timeframe are agreed between the implementing agency and the Bank in the Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan will be updated as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs and institutional capacity.

21.    The following key arrangements have been put in place and prove effective to improve
governance in procurement activities and mitigate the procurement associated risks:

          i. Implement the Procurement Risk Mitigation Framework (PRMF) including
             quarterly report on procurement performance indicators. There are 45 procurement
             performance indicators including Fraud & Corruption (F&C); and
         ii. Service of a full time procurement officer under BMDF with sound knowledge in
             national and international procurement.

22.    In addition, the following measures will be carried out before the first procurement starts:

         i. Each participating municipality shall have a procurement focal person with
             appropriate training on national procurement; ind
         ii. BMDF will retain the services of a consultant team including at least one
             procurement specialist, who shall participate as a member in each bid evaluation
             committee.

Financia1 Management

23.      FM capacity and systems: The project under additional financing will be implemented
by the two agencies - LGED and BMDF - that have been implementing the original project. The
financial management (FM) arrangements used in the original project, which are satisfactory,
will be used under the additional financing with strengthened internal control on field level
transactions. LGED has been using the project-based FM systems, while BMDF has been using
its entity FM systems for financial management of the project. Use of computerized accounting
systems by both agencies provided greater assurance on the timeliness and accuracy of financial
reporting. During implementation to date, the financial management teams of both the agencies
have acquired significant experience in IDA procedures and requirements.

24.    FM systems of the municipalities: Many municipalities which the project has been
supporting for institutional strengthening still have some deficiencies in Financial Management
capacity and systems. Computerized accounting system, implemented by MSU with consultants
and support to strengthen FM capacity and monitoring in selected municipalities, has not yet
                                                5
delivered the expected results. The municipalities would require authority to fill in the vacant
FM positions and the Local Government Division's approval to maintain accounts under the
double-entry system and directives to use computerized accounting system implemented by
MSU. Internal control system on municipal revenue collection to achieve sustainability has not
progressed as expected. Monitoring and evaluation of service delivery and implementation by
the municipalities needs continued strengthening. Scope of audit will be extended with adequate
provision of audit fees to include municipal audits on a sample basis.

25.     Disbursements and Flow of Funds: IDA funds will continue to be channeled through
the existing Dollar Special Account (DOSA) of LGED and Convertible Taka Special Account
(CONTASA) of BMDF being operated under the original Credit. LGED will continue to use
report-based disbursement; in addition, BMDF will also use report-based disbursement in place
of the currently used transactions-based disbursement.

26.     Audit: Audit arrangement in place for the original credit will be applicable for additional
financing. BMDF has been submitting the external audit reports of the entity covering the project
transactions within the due dates. However there was scope of improvement in the entity audited
financial statements in terms of providing analytical information on project transactions and
balances. Audit reports for the LGED portion were received on time from the Government
auditor. Such audit reports contained findings of weak internal controls on field level
transactions. This weakness would not affect additional financing which would not finance
LGED only for technical assistance managed centrally.

27.    FM Risks: From the fiduciary perspective, the overall FM risk for the Additional
Financing is assessed as Substantial. This is composed of high inherent risk at country level and
substantial to moderate control risks at the project level.

Safeguards

28.     The activities under the proposed additional financing will not trigger any new safeguard
policy or change the environmental category of the project. The framework for environmental and
social safeguards has proven effective, with appropriate revisions, during the course of the Project
implementation. To reflect the evolution of the Bank's safeguard policies and the increased role of
the municipalities in urban infrastructure subproject preparation and implementation, the social
impact management framework was updated and revised in August 2007 and the environmental
impact management framework in April 2010. These will continue to apply under the additional
financing. No exception to any Bank policies is required.




                                                6
li:   v)
      e,




           00
4
?




    u
    W

    8




    .-
    0
     C

     u
    +a


    B
    .-
    m
    +a
    c/J
                                                                                         Annex 2

       Bangladesh: Municipal Services Proiect - Additional Financing (Cr. 4761-BD)

                                      Project Description

1.       The Municipal Services Project (MSP) is being implemented to support urban
infrastructure as well as municipal capacity building in over 150 municipalities through the
following main components (with initial allocation of the credit total $138.6 million):

       (a) Urban infrastructure construction and rehabilitation, planned and implemented by
           municipalities, financed through the Bangladesh Municipal Development Fund
           (BMDF) - $70 million;
       (b) Urban infrastructure construction and rehabilitation in about 20 municipalities
           planned and carried out before BMDF's establishment - $40.1 million;
       (c) Rehabilitation of urban infrastructure damaged by floods - $16.2 million;
       (d) Institutional Development for creation and operation of BMDF and a Municipal
           Support Unit under the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) - $12.3
           million.

2.      LGED was responsible for preparing the project and also implementing the latter three
components, and it has established a strong track record of implementation from the project
beginning in 1999. BMDF was established as a new company under the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (LGED's parent ministry) and the Ministry
of Finance, but after a long (3-year) delay. As a result, when major flood damages occurred in
2004, LGED was asked to expand its urban flood damage rehabilitation (FDR) work taking $15
million from the BMDF component, as well as another $1 1 million under another project. `

3.      Urban Infrastructure Financing. After the initial delay, however, BMDF has been
performing well, introducing improvements in the selection, design, and management of
infrastructure investments. It has fully disbursed the credit of $55 million to 111 municipalities,
and it has a pipeline of subprojects in 56 municipalities (33 of which would be first-time
beneficiaries) which it has appraised. These, listed in Table A2.1 below, include construction or
upgrading of roads, water production and distribution facilities, pump house, drains, street
lighting, kitchen markets, community centers, office buildings and slaughter houses. Each of the
subprojects is expected to be completed within a year. With some adjustments of details, this
pipeline would be the main target of the proposed additional financing ($36 million). The
financing parameters will remain the same: 10% of the costs financed by the beneficiary
municipality; of the rest financed with the IDA credit through BMDF, 15% would be repaid to
BMDF over 20 years or less including up to 3 years grace.

4.     The additional credit would also finance the consultant services and training for BMDF
for subproject supervision and assistance, at an estimated cost of $1.5 million; and BMDF
incremental operating cost of up to $1 50,000.




                                                10
                                            Table A2.1
                    Bangladesh: Municipal Services Project - Additional Financing
                                 Urban Infrastructure Subprojects




*OHT=Over Head Tank, PH=Pump House, R=Road, D=Drain, KM=Kitchen Market, CC=Community Centre,
SL=Street Light, WS=Water Supply, PL=Pipe Line, PT=Production Tubewell, OB=Office Building,
SH=Slaughter House.

                                                 11
5.      Municipal capacity building component of the project was implemented by the LGED
through its Municipal Support Units (MSUs) located at its headquarters and in six regions. The
MSU undertook the implementation of its `four minimum program' activities: computerization
and improved management of tax records and water billing, computerization and improved
reporting of accounts records, inventory assessment and mapping of municipal infrastructure,
and community mobilization support to municipalities. The MSU has provided relevant training
along with the requisite hardware to municipal officials and staff, and has covered 133
municipalities satisfactorily. Many of these municipalities, for example, have attained 90%
collection of holdings tax. These activities will be continued and extended to at least 50 more
towns, as well as continued trouble shooting support for others. Detailed costs of these
additional activities are as follows:

       Consultant and other services:    $1,000,000
       Computers and other equipment       $470,000
       Incremental operating costs of MSU $370,000
             Total                       $1,840,000

6.      Preparing an improved program of urban infrastructure and institutional
development. It is necessary to improve the sustainability, efficiency and equity of urban
investment and institutional development in the face of the continued growth in number,
population and economy of Bangladeshi cities and hence demand for municipal services and
infrastructure. Therefore it is proposed that studies and consultation are carried out to develop an
improved program of urban infrastructure and institutional development, better integrated with
the evolving policy framework of local governance, public finance, and urban development.
This program could then become the basis of projects to be funded by the Bank group or other
agencies. The proposed technical assistance to develop such as program is outlined below:

   Obiective and Approach: To prepare a program of urban infrastructure and institutional
   development over a medium term (2012-2017) to remove critical impediments to the quality
   of the life and productive activities in municipalities of Bangladesh, which is financially,
   socially, and environmentally sustainable and feasible. Given the limited resources, potential
   interventions have to be evaluated on the basis of demonstrated developmental needs,
   demand, and financing feasibility, including participatory processes, new financing measures
   such as beneficiary financing, new local assessments, and the private financing.

   Scope and Outputs: The TA will consist of the following related tasks:

   A. Establishing an improved framework for selecting, designing, and implementing priority
      interventions for municipal development;
   B. Preparing overall infrastructure and institutional development programs for different
      types of urban development situations in a sample of about 20-25 municipalities;
   C. Assistance for preparing detailed plans for infrastructure and institutional development
      subprojects in about 25 cities and towns for initial implementation, according to the
      framework set out in A and B.




                                                12
A.
- Framework Development, to establish a set of criteria, methodology, procedures and
   guidelines to evaluate, plan, and implement municipal infrastructure and institutional
   development programs. It will focus on evaluating options for sustainable and efficient
   financing including the right blend of local, national, beneficiary, and private financing;
   institutional options to balance the need to develop local autonomy and capacity against the
   need to ensure efficiency; and establishing guidelines for the development programming and
   subproject planning (TA packages B and C below), and evaluating and financing the
   subprojects.

    This will be based on the assessment of various types existing programs in terms of
    financial envelope and sustainability, legal and policy framework, institutional set-up,
    stakeholder participation, results on the ground, etc. The programs to be examined will
    include: municipalities' own programs, Block Grant provisions of the central government,
    Annual Development Program, and various development projects and programs like the
    Municipal Services Project, Urban Governance and Infrastructure Improvement Project,
    Urban Partnership and the Poverty Reduction Project, and existing or potential public-
    private partnership.

    These reviews will draw on the national-level information as well as the local information
    generated under Package B described below.

    This will also draw on international models and experiences.

   This Package will be carried out from about August 2010 to about May 201 1 at a cost of
   about $300,000. A preliminary version of the framework will be developed by about
   December 2010, along with the recommend sample of 25 cities, and finalized by May 201 1
   incorporating the findings and experiences under Package B.

B.
- Urban Development Assessment and Programming will produce assessment of urban
   development, improvement needs, and potential resources, and a strategic municipal
   development plan for the medium term (2012-2027) for a sample of about 25 municipalities
   representing Divisions, different sizes, and different growth profiles. This will involve the
   following activities, broadly in accordance with the preliminary framework produced under
   Package A above but also suggesting modifications to the latter:

(a) Analyze the demographic and economic profile of the city and its development over the
    period 2001-2010;
(b) Identify inventory of core public facilities including water supply, roads, public
    transportation, drainage, parks, markets, transportation terminals, community centers;
    assessment of their operation and maintenance;
(c) Assess other municipal services such as registration and civil defense;
(d) Compare the infrastructure and service levels with similar cities in the country;
(e) Evaluate demand for facilities and services based on contingent valuation and participatory
    consultation including interested investors;
(f) Assess available public financial resources including local revenues, national grants,
    external aids and their prospects;


                                               13
 (g) Assess the potential for beneficiary or investor financing, user charges, and self-assessment;
 (h) Assess urban plans, and their realism; past, on-going, and planned projects;
 (i) Review the on-going and recent past municipal development investment and capacity
     building activities, including the different types of programs identified above as well as the
     `minimum program' of the Municipal Support Unit (MSU), focusing on their effectiveness;
     and
 (j) Identification and evaluation of high priority investment and institutional development
     measures, their approximate costs and benefits, financing options, and sequence.

      The work will be carried out in two parallel consultant packages, at an approximate cost of
      about $350,000 each, one for the eastern part of the country - Dhaka, Chittagong, and
      Sylhet Divisions - and another for the western part - Rangpur, Rajshahi, Khulna, and
      Barisal Divisions, from about December 2010 to about September 20 1 1.

 C.
 -     Subproject Preparation Assistance to prepare feasibility study and designs for infrastructure   +




      investments and institutional development activities for about 20 cities and towns (not
      necessarily the same as the sample above), in accordance with the principles and criteria
      developed under Packages A and Byat a cost of about $450,000 each for about 20
      municipalities (not necessarily the same as under Package B) in the eastern and western
      parts of the country, from about June 201 1 to February 2012.

7.     The existing Project Management Unit for the entire project, under LGED, will manage
the TA in collaboration with BMDF and other relevant ministries. The additional financing
would include its incremental operating cost of $230,000.

Financing

8.      The additional financing credit by expenditure category is shown below:

            (1) Civil works for Urban Infrastructure Investment              $36,000,000
            (2) Goods (for municipal capacity building)                      $ 470,000
            (3) Services and Training                                        $ 4,400,000
                   a. BMDF                            $1,500,000
                   b. LGED                            $2,900,000

            (4) Incremental operating costs                                  $    750,000
                    a. BMDF                           $ 150,000
                    b. LGED                           $ 600,000
            (5) Unallocated                                                  $    380,000

                Total                                                        $42,000,000.

9.      The credit will finance 90% of the first category, civil works for urban infrastructure
investments, and 100% of the other expenditures including local taxes. The credit for categories
(l), (3)a, and (4)a is earmarked for BMDF; credit for the categories (2), (3)b, and (4)b earmarked
for LGED.


                                                 14
