                                             CONFORMED COPY

                                       CREDIT NUMBER 4761 -BD




Financing Agreement
(Additional Financing for Municipal Services Project)



                      between



    PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH



                        and



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




               Dated August 23, 2010
                            FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated August 23, 2010, entered into between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as
follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        twenty seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 27,800,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the
        project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.
                                          -2-


                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall: (i) cause MDF to carry out Parts A and B.6(b) of the
        Project; and (ii) cause LGED to carry out Part B (except for Part B. 6(b) of the
        Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
        Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
        Charter has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
        affect materially and adversely the ability of MDF to perform any of its
        obligations under the Project.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
        event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

5.02.   For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
        Agreement.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or
        any Joint Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior
        Assistant Secretary, Senior Assistant Chief, Assistant Secretary, or Assistant
        Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Economic Relations Division
                Ministry of Finance
                                         -3-


               Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
               Sher-E-Bangla Nagar
               Dhaka, Bangladesh

               Facsimile:

               88028813088

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable:                   Telex:              Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.

                 AGREED at Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh as of the day and
        year first above written.


                               PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH



                               By: /s/ M. Musharraf Hosain Bhuiyan


                                                          Authorized Representative




                               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                               By: /s/ Ellen Goldstein


                                                          Authorized Representative
                                           -4-


                                      SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to improve urban environment, infrastructure and
services, and, to that end, to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of selected
municipalities and city corporations; (b) improve resource allocation and fiscal discipline;
and (c) support governmental efforts to reduce urban poverty and improve the
environmental conditions of urban communities.

        The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Infrastructure Development

Financing through loans and/or grants to Participating Municipalities of specific
development projects within the municipal infrastructure and services sector for the
following:

    1. Rehabilitation of existing water supply systems in Participating Municipalities,
       including urgent works relating to hydrants, valve chambers and overhead tanks.

    2.   Carrying out of sanitary works, including construction of public toilets in
         Participating Municipalities.

    3. Upgrading and rehabilitation of urban roads and urban drains.

    4. Construction of, and/or rehabilitation of, bus/truck terminals in Participating
       Municipalities and in the city corporations of Khulna and Rajshahi.

    5.   Upgrading and/or rehabilitation of municipal markets in Participating
         Municipalities.

    6. Carrying out of slum improvement works in the city corporation of Khulna and
       in Participating Municipalities, including the provision of improved water supply
       and on-site sanitary facilities, footpaths and street lighting.

    7.   Provision of improved primary solid waste collection facilities in Participating
         Municipalities.

    8. Construction and/or improvement of urban infrastructure to be identified during
       Project implementation in Participating Municipalities.
                                            -5-


Part B: Institution Building and Technical Assistance

1. Establishment of a Municipal Support Unit (MSU) within LGED, consisting of
   A central support unit and six regional units in each of the Divisions of Bangladesh.

2. Establishment of a municipal database and related applications systems.

3.   Preparation of Environmental Management Action Plans (EMAPs) for sanitation and
     solid waste management in the city corporations of Khulna and Rajshahi.

4. Carrying out of a micro-credit study.

5.   Provision of training to MSU, LGED and municipality staff.

6. Provision of technical assistance: (a) to the Participating Municipalities to assist them
   in the preparation of Investment Projects, the implementation of FOAPs and the
   improvement of their institutional and financial performance; and (b) to MDF to
   assist it in appraising and supervising Investment Projects.
                                            -6-


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                    Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Overall Project Implementation and Coordination

        The provisions of Schedules 3 (except for paragraphs 4(c) and 5(b)(i)), 5 and 6 to
        the Original Financing Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and apply
        to the Project, mutatis mutandis.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and shall further ensure that the
        Participating Municipalities carry out Investment Projects in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

C.      Safeguards

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        Environmental and Social Framework.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association. Each
        Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
        furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the
        period covered by such report.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
        prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the
        end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
        covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
                                             -7-


3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.
        The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.      International Competitive Bidding.          Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, goods and works, shall be procured under contracts awarded
        on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. Within the overall
        context of the Procurement Guidelines, local procurement of goods and works
        will follow the Recipient’s Procurement Laws. The Procurement Plan shall
        specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

                Procurement Method
               (a)      National Competitive Bidding

                (b)     Shopping

                (c)     Direct Contracting
                                        -8-


     For the purpose of National Competitive Bidding, the following shall apply: (a)
     post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any
     other bidder; (b) bids should be submitted and opened in public in one location
     immediately after the deadline for submission; (c) rebidding shall not be carried
     out, except with the Association’s prior agreement; (d) lottery in award of
     contracts shall not be allowed; (e) bidders’ qualification / experience requirement
     shall be mandatory; (f) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage above
     or below the estimated cost and the contract award shall be based on the lowest
     estimated bid price of compliant bid from eligible and qualified bidder; and (g)
     single stage two envelope procurement system shall not be allowed.

C.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.   Quality- and Cost-based Selection.         Except as otherwise provided in
     paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
     awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

2.   Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. Within the overall
     context of the Consultant Guidelines, local procurement of services of firms (for
     which the shortlist may be comprised entirely of national consultants) and
     services of individual consultants will follow the Recipient’s Procurement Laws.
     The following table specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and
     Cost-based Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The
     Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may
     be used:

             Procurement Method
             (a) Quality-based Selection

             (b) Fixed Budget Selection
             (c) Consultants Qualification

             (d) Single Source Selection
             (e) Individual Consultants

             (f) Least Cost Selection

D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

     The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
     Bank’s prior review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
     Association.
                                          -9-


E.     Other Undertakings

1.     The Recipient shall: (i) implement the Procurement Risk Mitigation Framework
       (PRMF); (ii) submit to the Association quarterly report on procurement
       performance indicators; (iii) retain the services of a full time procurement officer
       under MDF with sound knowledge in national and international procurement;
       and (iv) include a qualified procurement specialist from MDF’s consultant team
       as a member in each bid evaluation committee.
2.     The Recipient shall, not later than December 31, 2010, cause: (i) each
       Participating Municipality to engage a procurement focal person with appropriate
       training on national procurement; and (ii) the MDF to retain the services of a
       consultant team, including at least one qualified procurement specialist who shall
       participate as a member in each bid evaluation committee.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
       the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
       (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated
       May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
       applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
       Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
       financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the
       amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
       be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
                                              - 10 -



                                                  Amount of the         Percentage of
                                                    Financing        Expenditures to be
                    Category                        Allocated             Financed
                                                (expressed in SDR)   (inclusive of Taxes)
     (1) Civil works under Part A of the            23,820,000              90%
         Project for MDF
     (2) Goods under Part B of the Project               310,000           100%
         for LGED
     (3) Consultant services and training                                  100%
         under Parts A and B of the Project

         (a) For LGED
                                                        1,920,000
         (b) For MDF
                                                        1,000,000

     (4) Incremental Operating Costs
         under Part B of the Project                                       100%

         (a) For LGED                                    400,000

         (b) For MDF                                     100,000

     (5) Unallocated                                     250,000

     TOTAL AMOUNT                                      27,800,000

B.         Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.         Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
           made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2.         The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                        - 11 -


                                   SCHEDULE 3

                                Repayment Schedule

              Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                     (expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 1 and August 1:
commencing August 1, 2020 to and including                        1%
February 1, 2030
commencing August 1, 2030 to and including                        2%
February 1, 2050

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
                                          - 12 -


                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

        All definitions contained in the Original Financing Agreement in Article I,
Section 1.02 are incorporated by reference in this Agreement, and shall apply mutatis
mutandis to this Agreement.

Section II.     Other Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
        Section IV of this Appendix.

2.      “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
        this Agreement.

3.      “Charter” means the Charter of MDF (as defined hereinafter).

4.      “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

5.       "Environmental and Social Framework" means the framework instrument,
        including a social impact management framework dated August 2007 and an
        environmental impact management framework, dated April 2010, adopted by the
        Recipient, and referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which
        sets forth principles and procedures, and mitigation, enhancement, monitoring,
        and institutional measures, to avoid or mitigate potential adverse environmental
        and social impacts resulting from the Project, or reduce them to acceptable levels,
        or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to time with
        the prior written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any
        schedules or annexes to such framework.

6.      "FOAP" means, in respect of a Participating Municipality, a financial and
        operational action plan which identifies the capacity deficits of such Municipality
        and the corresponding measures to address those deficits as formulated based on
        a municipal assessment of such Municipality.


7.      “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended
                                         - 13 -


      through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section III of this
      Appendix.

8.    “Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable operating expenditures
      directly related to the Project incurred by LGED and MDF for implementation
      and monitoring of the Project, including, but not limited to, salaries and
      allowances of contractual and deputed staff appointed for implementing the
      Project, and other administrative costs of transportation, communications, and
      office supplies.

9.    "Investment Project" means a specific development project under Part A of the
      Project to be carried out by a Participating Municipality (as defined hereinafter)
      utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan (as defined hereinafter).

10.   "LGED" means the Recipient’s Local Government Engineering Department; and
      any successor thereto.

11.   "MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund of the Recipient, established as
      a state-owned entity under the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and operating
      under the Recipient’s Companies Act 1994, as amended.

12.   "MSU" means the Municipal Support Unit established under Part B.1 of the
      Project.

13.    “Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for
      the Municipal Services Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated
      April 26, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 3177-BD).

14.   “Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original
      Financing Agreement.

15.    "Participating Municipality" means a municipality or city corporation to which
      the Recipient proposes to make or has made a Subloan (as defined hereinafter).

16.   “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in
      October, 2006 and May 2010.

17.   “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated May 16, 2010, referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines
      and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated
      from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

18.   “Procurement Risk Mitigation Framework” means the framework, dated May 12,
      2010, prepared by the Recipient, setting out measures and actions to mitigate
                                          - 14 -


        procurement related risks in the carrying out of the Project; as the same may be
        modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association.

19.     “Procurement Laws” mean, collectively, the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act
        2006, the Recipient’s Public Procurement Rules 2008 (as amended in August
        2009), and the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act (1st Amendment) 2009.

20.     "Subloan" means a loan or other financing, including a grant, or a combination of
        a loan and a grant, made or proposed to be made by the Recipient to a
        Participating Municipality for an Investment Project out of the proceeds of the
        Financing.
Section III.    Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association,
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:

1.      Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows:

        “Section 6.02. Suspension by the Association

        ...      (l) Ineligibility. The Association or the Bank has declared the Project
        Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the
        Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or
        implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or
        the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that
        the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or
        collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing
        made by the Association or the Bank; and/or (ii) a declaration by another
        financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of
        financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation
        or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as
        a result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity
        has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection
        with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

Section IV. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

        “… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
        imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
                                           - 15 -


        other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
        the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
        a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
        or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
        connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

“… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures
       (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or
       entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity
       ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be
       awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract,
       financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise
       participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other
       project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank
       determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

Footnotes:

        “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
        financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
        Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
        suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
        sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
        Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
        by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
        coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
        financing made by such financier.”

        “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
        government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
        government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
        paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
        1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.”
                                   - 16 -


“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
stakeholders.”
