                                   Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR0000450




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-35800)




                                       ON A

                   LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SRD 3.90 MILLION
                        (USD 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)




                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                     FOR AN

                           ENTERPRISE INCUBATOR




                                  June 25, 2007




Private and Finance Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective 05/31/2007)

                            Currency Unit = Armenia Dram
                                   1.00 = USD 0.002
                           USD 1.00 = Armenian Dram 347.75

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAGR                Compounded Annual Growth Rate
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CIS                 Commonwealth of Independent States
CMMI                Capability Maturity Model Integration
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DO                  Development Objectives
EIF                 Enterprise Incubator Foundation
EIP                 Enterprise Incubator Project
FDI                 Foreign Direct Investment
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
ICT                 Information and Communication Technology
IP                  Implementation Progress
ISR                 Implementation Status and Results Report
IT                  Information Technology
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MOU                 Memorandum of Understanding
MWS                 Managed Workspace Component
MTR                 Mid-Term Review
MWS                 Managed Work Space
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PDO                 Project Development Objectives
PIMU                Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit
PRSC                Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
SAC                 Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights


        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
      Country Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
       Sector Manager: Gerardo Corrochano
   Project Team Leader: Ramin Shojai
     ICR Team Leader: Ramin Shojai

                                             Armenia
                                 Enterprise Incubator Project
                        Learning and innovation Lending (Credit)


                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.................................................6
3. Assessment of Outcomes..................................................................................12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................18
6. Lessons Learned...........................................................................................20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......................21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.....................................................................22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...........................................................................23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis...............................................................24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.......................26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results......................................................................28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..............................35
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................36
Annex 9. Project Monitoring Framework and Actual Indicators compared to Targets...............39
Map

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Enterprise Incubator
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:
                                                                       LIL
Project ID:             P044852                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35800
ICR Date:               06/25/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 0.0M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Enterprise Incubator Foundation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/11/2001    Effectiveness:           06/10/2002        06/10/2002
Appraisal:             05/23/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/29/2001    Mid-term Review:                           02/07/2004
                                     Closing:                                   12/31/2006

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Negligible to low
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of            Moderately
                           No
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA): Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Information technology                                             86                  86
Telecommunications                                                 14                  14



Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for the knowledge economy                              Secondary          Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary            Primary
Other financial and private sector development                    Primary            Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                               Primary            Primary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                 Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Gerardo M. Corrochano               Paul J. Siegelbaum
Project Team Leader:       Ramin Shojai                        Vladmir G. Kreacic
ICR Team Leader:           Ramin Shojai
ICR Primary Author:        Matthew Mitchell/Ramin Shojai


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's overall objective was to pilot innovative private-public mechanisms for providing
business development services to nascent enterprises and continuous education and training to
professionals in the field of information technology (IT). In support of the overall objective, the
project had three interlocking, subordinate objectives associated with each of the project's three
components, which the Bank and the Borrower monitored throughout the project's
implementation period. These objectives were to:



                                                 ii

    (a) provide a demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable business
          environment (employment creation/productivity objective).
    (b) provide a demonstration effect of the positive impact of FDI in IT industry (the FDI
          objective); and
    (c) pilot demand-driven mechanisms for the continuous upgrading of IT skills of
          professionals, third year students, and work force and enterprise managers and employees
          (continuous skills upgrading objective).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

There was no revision to the original objectives.

(a) PDO Indicator(s). The PAD provided no baseline values and the indicators for the most part
were too general for monitoring purposes, particularly given the vague expression of the
objectives. During a Mid-Term Review (MTR), in January/February 2004, the Bank and the
Borrower formally revised the indicators, setting monitorable quantitative targets. A consulting
firm established a very detailed monitoring methodology and for the last two years of the project
and monitored 35 indicators tracking outputs intermediate outcomes and final outcomes. The
following data sheet contains nine key outcome and three intermediate outcome indicators linked
to the project's three subsidiary objectives. The consultant also provided third-party verification
of achievements reported the project's key implementing agency, the Enterprise Incubator
Foundation (EIF) and data sheet includes information on how the consulting company monitored
each indicator. Annex 10 provides a full list of indicators tracked by the consultant.

                                                     Original Target         Formally           Actual Value

   Indicator            Baseline Value                 Values (from            Revised          Achieved at
                                                         approval              Target          Completion or
                                                       documents)              Values          Target Years
Objective 1: Providing a demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable
business environment by accelerating business linkages with foreign companies
Indicator 1        Number of sustained start-up companies
Value
quantitative or    0                               0                         2               3/21
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable                       Not applicable          January 2004 December 31, 2006
                   Achievement compared to target: 150 percent based on reported start-ups and
                   100 percent based monitoring agent's methodology.
                   Monitored by: List of active start ups reported, validated by copies of state
Comments           registration certificates and company interviews
(incl. %           Additional Comments::
achievement)
                   Sourcio CJSC.          Established in 2005, this company has 40 employees and
                   provides open-source information technologies and solutions for small and
                   medium-sized enterprises. In addition to a domestic market, the company has




1 Whilst EIF developed three start-up, the monitoring agency only counted the two start-up companies in which EIP
had direct ownership.




                                                         iii

                 established both external business linkages and markets Austria and Germany.
                 The company has business linkages with the United States as well.

                 AIT CJSC. This company, which has four employees, was established in 2006
                 and is engaged in the implementation and support of large-scale technological
                 systems. Currently its markets are in Europe and India. The company also has
                 established business linkages in the United States. The company was registered
                 with the State on September 20, 2006.

                 ISMOTECH, established in 2006, is involved in the development of mobile IT
                 applications. Its principal market is Austria. The company currently has a staff of
                 6. This third start-up company was initiated by EIF in collaboration with Project
                 Europe representative. Whilst EIF participated and facilitated the formation of
                 this start up, it did not have any ownership in it. Given that the monitoring
                 agency's methodology required direct ownership, the agency did not count the
                 third start-up.
Indicator 2      No. of employees in start-up companies
Value
quantitative or 0                              0                      30              50/43
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable                   Not applicable         January 2004 December 31, 2006

Comments         % achieved: 166 percent based on number of employees in reported start-ups

(incl. %         and 1432 percent based monitoring agent's methodology.

achievement)     Monitored by: Review of employee contracts and payroll lists.

Indicator 3      Number of export/ outsourcing and partnership contracts
Value
quantitative or 0                              0                      14              20
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable                   Not applicable         January 2004 December 31, 2006
                 Achievement compared to target (% ): 143
                 Monitored by: list of signed export/outsourcing contracts, with date of signing
                 and description of services, validated by consultant as necessary.
Comments         Additional comments: Apart from the contracts signed with assistance and
(incl. %         support of its two representatives in Canada and Europe, EIF also succeeded in
achievement)     promoting and support of its start-up company's (Sourcio) marketing activities
                 resulted in gaining additional contracts As of the end of 2006, the value of these
                 contracts totaled USD 0.9 million

Indicator 4      Dollar value of beneficiary sales received due to EIF assistance
Value
quantitative or 0                        0                    USD 300,000             USD307,000
Qualitative)                                                                          (plus U$520,000)
Date achieved Not applicable             Not applicable       January 2004            December 31, 2006



2 New staff of 43 does not include staff at Isomech which has a staff of 6, because EIF does not have direct
ownership. If we include Isomech then the level of achievement will be higher than 166%.




                                                    iv

               Achievement compared to target (%): 102 (273)
               Monitored by:       reports of representatives to EIF, financial reports of the
Comments       beneficiary, and selected interviews
(incl. %       Additional comments: EIF has reported that the monitoring agency did not
achievement)    consider outsourcing projects reported by EIF and its Canadian representative,
                valued at USD 520,000. The figure in parentheses includes the value of these
                additional contracts.

Objective 2     Providing a demonstration effect of foreign investment in IT related
                manufacturing
Indicator 1    Number of foreign investment projects initiated or realized
Value
quantitative or 0                         0                    4              6
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable              Not applicable       January 2004 December 31, 2006
                Achievement compared to target (%): 150
                Reason for change compared to target: Being one of the Armenian IT sector
               main representatives and implementing a major sector development program, EIF

Comments       turned to become a key partner for the foreign investors for initiating their IT

(incl. %       investment projects in Armenia. EIF was approached by and negotiated various

achievement)   investment projects with global international corporations resulted in signing of 7
               MOUs and cooperation agreements.
               Monitored by: List of contact information for the investors; brief description of
               the investment project; selected interviews as necessary

Indicator 2    Total value of foreign investment in beneficiary companies
Value
quantitative or 0                         0                USD 1.80 million USD 1.96 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 0                           0                January 2004       December 31, 2006
                Achievement compared to target (%): 109
               Reason for change compared to target:          An additional investment project
Comments       compared to the target (See below.)
(incl. %       Monitored by: Review of project data, investor information, copies of share
achievement)    registers and bank statements (optional); and selected interviews with beneficiary
                companies

Indicator 3 :  Number of investment projects initiated by EIF for the IT sector
Value
quantitative or 0                         0                6                   7
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable              Not applicable January 2004         December 31, 2006
                Achievement compared to target (%): 117
               Monitored by: list of signed memoranda of understanding and correspondence
Comments       with investors
(incl. %       Additional comments: EIF's reputation as a key partner for foreign investors in
achievement)    initiating their investment projects in Armenia Total investment amounted to
                USD 1.9 million

Objective 3     Piloting demand-driven mechanisms for continuous upgrading of skills



                                                v

Indicator 1:   Number of students enrolled in new university courses developed as joint
               ventures through the project
Value
quantitative or 0                        0                    400            452
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable             Not applicable       January 2004 December 31, 2006
                Achievement compared to target (%): 100
               Monitored by: the number of joint-university/private sector projects for new
               courses and training programs, evidenced by a list of contracts validated by
Comments       review, as necessary, of actual contracts or project documents.
(incl. %       Additional comments: About 1200 university students benefited from these new
achievement)   courses. In addition to the joint projects for new courses, the project supported
               the development of 37 specialized training programs.


Indicator 2    Share of positive feedback on training programs
Value
quantitative or 0                        0                   80%             91%
Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable             Not applicable      January 2004   December 31, 2006
                Achievement compared to target (%): 113
               Reason for change compared to target:
Comments       Monitored by: training evaluation reports and interviews with 20 percent of the
(incl. %        participants
achievement)    Additional comments: Among courses that trainees found most useful and were
               in considerable demand were       IT Project Management, Linux Operationing
               System, Information Network Security, Sales skills Development




                                               vi

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s):

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values     Target Years
               Providing a demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable
Objective 1    business environment by accelerating business linkages with foreign
               companies
Indicator      No. of applications for start-up initiative
Value
(quantitative  0                           0               30                25
or Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable               Not applicable January 2004       December 31, 2006

Comments       Achievement compared to target (%): 83

(incl. %       Measured by: Review of a list of applicants and application forms and contact of

achievement)   applicants for verification if the completed application form was not available.


Objective 2    Providing a demonstration effect of foreign investment in IT related
               manufacturing

Indicator      No. of leads for foreign investments or partnerships reported by EIF's foreign
               representatives
Value
(quantitative  0                           0               40                79
or Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable               Not applicable January 2004       December 31, 2006

Comments       Achievement compared to target (%): 197

(incl. %       Monitored by:      Reports of representatives, contact information for target

achievement    companies, and brief description of foreign partnerships anticipate

Objective 3    Piloting demand driven mechanisms for continuous upgrading of skills

Indicator      Number of new university courses introduced to prepare students for the IT
               industry
Value
(quantitative  0                           0               6 joint projects  6 joint projects
or Qualitative)
Date achieved Not applicable               Not applicable January 2004       December 31, 2006
               Achievement compared to target (%): 100
               Monitored by: the number of joint-university/private sector projects for new
               courses and training programs, evidenced by a list of contracts validated by
Comments       review, as necessary, of actual contracts or project documents.
(incl. %       Additional comments: About 1200 university students benefited from these new
achievement)   courses. In addition to the joint projects for new courses, the project supported
               the development of 37 specialized training programs.




                                                vii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1   12/28/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.00
  2   06/28/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.25
  3   12/19/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.36
  4   06/23/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.52
  5   11/21/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.74
  6   06/07/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 1.22
  7   12/13/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 1.56
  8   04/16/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.16
  9   11/19/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.92
  10  05/25/2006        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 3.70
  11  01/19/2007        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory             5.08



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country background

The Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) for the Enterprise Incubator Project (EIP) took place
during a critical period in Armenia's economic transition to a market economy. The privatization
of state-owned enterprises had been relatively slow in Armenia compared to other countries. At
the time of project appraisal (2001), fewer than 50 of the 210 large private enterprises had been
either sold or liquidated. The country's GDP (USD 490) was only 22 percent of the average for
Europe and Central Asia (USD 2,150). Exports had been stagnant and imports were more than
triple the value of exports. The project supported the primary objective of the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was to "foster the rapid development of the private sector", in
the country. This development was to focus on appropriate enterprises for Armenia's country
situation ­ landlocked with a small (3.8 million) but highly literate (98 percent) population.

Information Technology (IT) Sector profile

Under the former Soviet Union (FSU), Armenia had legacy of specialization in IT development.
However, private sector development in the sector during the 1990s, following the fall of the
Soviet Union, had been minimal. Privatized IT enterprises faced a small domestic market and stiff
competition for foreign markets. IT departments of universities were unable to deliver up-to-date
knowledge to develop a pool of graduates with the skills needed in the rapidly changing IT field.
An unfavorable legal and administrative framework discouraged foreign investment.3 Enterprise
managers often lacked the skills for decision-making and few companies had marketing
specialists. The flow of specialists with marketable skills outside the country was substantial
because Armenian companies were offering a salary range of USD300-$400 per month, which
were significantly lower than what they were offered abroad.

Rationale for Bank involvement

The rationale for Bank involvement in the EIP was its experience working with Armenia on
developing its country strategy and related studies on private sector development. These studies
had indicated that the development of business linkages between the growth segments of the
Armenian economy and the rest of the economy would likely be the most effective way to pull
the economy out of stagnation. The Bank also had experience assisting enterprise development in
Armenia and had prepared two strategy documents that served as the framework for determining
the project's objectives and design: (i) Armenia IT Master Plan and (ii) and the World Bank
Information and Communication Strategy Paper.




3For example, intellectual property law allowed an employee, after 10 years to claim back all of the rights to the
property developed while working for the company.




                                                        1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project's stated overall objective was to "pilot innovative private-public mechanisms for
providing business development services to nascent enterprises and continuous education and
training to IT professionals." The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) also emphasized that the
pilot was to have "a powerful demonstration effect," which would trigger reforms in other sectors
of the economy." In support of this overall objective, the PAD listed three subsidiary objectives,
which were to: (i) provide a demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable
business environment (employment-creation/productivity objective); (ii) provide demonstration
effect of FDI in IT-related manufacturing (FDI objective); (iii) and pilot demand-driven
mechanisms of continuous upgrading of IT skills of students, professors, enterprise managers and
employees (continuous skill upgrading objective).

Table 1.2.1 lists the key indicators for the project's monitoring and evaluation, with outcomes
divided into two categories: skills upgrading and improvements in the participating firms:

Table 1.2.1: Key Monitoring and evaluation indicators in the PAD

Input               Output            Skills development/Skill     Productivity/Firm-level outcome
                                      upgrading outcomes
Days of skills      Beneficiaries per Number of students receiving Business linkages outcomes
development         program           top level placements in the  Exports by firms
activity for                          country
enterprises by      Persons trained                                Production and financial outcomes
types of recipients by type           Students admitted into post-  Productivity
                                      graduate degree programs in   Product quality
                                      the country and abroad        Capacity
                                                                    Delivery times
Days of qualified Firms received      Career positions of students  Backlog
consultants hired, assistance by      and professors trained within Increase in Sales and Financial Profitability
by origin           size              two years of graduation:      (% per employee, % of an international
(national,                             ·    Government              benchmark)
international)                         ·    management in
                                            Armenian companies      Behavioral outcomes
Skills              Professors and     ·    management in foreign  Adoption of ISO 9000 standards
development         teachers trained        companies located in   New products introduced
events (by type                             Armenia                New clients acquired
and agency)         Students trained   ·    career positions abroad
                                            (temporary or          Process (buyer-supplier collaboration)
                                            permanent brain drain) outcomes
                                                                   Number of buyers and suppliers exploring
                                                                   common opportunities
                                                                   Sharing technology among firms
                                                                   Linkages with universities and advisory
                                                                   institutions
                                                                   New IT sector and industry links


Learning hypothesis embedded in the design

Bank reviews of LILs have pointed out that embedded in the rationale for each project is a
hypothesis that the LIL is testing. The hypothesis embedded in EIP's design was the following:

     · The IT sector would likely remain stagnant without an innovative public/private
          mechanism to encourage the company formation and development in the IT sector, with
          particular emphasis on finding means to expand FDI in the sector.




                                                            2

    · The most suitable public/private mechanism for Armenia's IT sector would be a
         combination of a workspace, consulting services for business service development and
         training programs and that any one of these on its own would be necessary but not
         sufficient to improve enterprise performance in the global market for IT services.

Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework for testing the learning hypothesis

Productivity and skill development         Assessed in two groups to be defined during project
                                           implementation: a control group not participating in the project
                                           and beneficiaries
Demand for incubator services and level    For the beneficiary group
of cost recovery for them
Changes in the leverage factor ( total     To test the capability of the incubator to attracted funding from
financing divided by the amount of the     other sources including donors, Diaspora and other investors.
Bank Credit or 7.6/5.0=1.5)                Increasing the leverage above 1.5


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There was no revision to the project's objectives but the key indicators required revision due to
the lack of sufficient specification, as discussed in section 1.7

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

    · Primary target group: existing and potential local entrepreneurs in the IT/software sector,
         who would benefit from the workspace, business development services, and training. (At
         appraisal, the Bank and the Borrower had identified 50 start-up companies that could
         benefit from the project).

    · Secondary target group: the population at large, which would benefit from increased
         employment opportunities resulting from the business improvements of the enhanced
         incubator

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component I: Managed Work Space (MWS) ­ USD2.064 million

This component was to provide telecommunication infrastructure and office space for lease to all
interested IT companies - domestic and foreign, already operating or start-ups.
It was to finance physical rehabilitation and refurbishment of the building and: (i) Local Area
Networks (LAN) with optical cable link to the Internet Service Provider (ISP) and related
communications hardware and software; (ii) hardware, software and services related to distance




                                                    3

learning center; (iii) two classrooms equipped with computers and related teaching aids; (iv)
computers, cubicles and furniture; (v) 100-150 workstations; and (vi) office equipment.                        4



Component II: Business linkages services: Business Services Center -- USD3.507 million

This component was to provide business development services to interested clients, mostly
locally-owned software companies without the necessary management and marketing skills to
adjust to the new market-based economy. The Business Services Center was to promote the IT
industry to potential investors and business partners. Its tasks were to: (i) establish business
connections among local IT companies, foreign investors, and clients; and (ii) counsel managers
and specialists in the development of business proposals and the management of human resources.
The Center also was to manage a "Marshall Plan" type of assistance program, placing managers
and senior specialists of Armenian-owned software companies into similar IT companies and
incubators in more advanced market economies.                 5




Component III: Skill development services: Skills Development Facility -- USD0.906 million


This component was to provide on-demand training for enterprise incubator tenants and other
interested clients, including undergraduate and graduate university students. The primary role of
the facility was to introduce advanced models of continuing IT professional education through
organizing supplementary professional training programs. The models were to ensure a
sustainable and permanent supply of qualified technicians and managers for companies. In
addition, the facility was to provide extensive knowledge support to emerging business entities.
The facility was to give particular attention to companies or work groups organized by young IT
professionals. In this context, the Facility was to cooperate with both state and private training
institutions in Armenia and abroad. The component also was to provide entrepreneurship grants
(including pre-seed money) to IT professionals and students in order to help them turn their ideas
into business ventures.6



4 The project was to make the office space available to companies that met several criteria. First, their ownership was
to be preferably local. Second, the IT/software companies were to have first preference. Third, all companies were to
have a business plan and a workspace exit strategy. The project was to offer the workspace to a pre-selected group of
companies on a first come, first served basis at a rental price in line with market conditions, a level that would make the
workspace financially self-sustainable by the end of the project.

5Specifically, the component was to finance: (a) the cost of consultants to develop the skills of the Business Services
Center's staff in formulating business plans and building a pipeline of orders for Incubator tenants; (b) the operating
costs of the Business Services Center, until such time that it became self-sufficient; and (c) the costs of placing
company managers and senior staff in countries/regions with export-oriented IT sectors.


6The Skills development Facility was to target three groups of clients. Group A was to consist of public and private
training establishments. For this group, EIP was to focus on empowering future young managers and technology
specialists by creating links between groups with different (but related ) professional backgrounds. Group B was to
consist of managers and top level technical staff of local IT companies. For this group, EIP was to provide distance
educational services, under which Western educational institutions were to develop and deliver specific modules for
skills development, selected on the basis of local needs assessment. Group C consisted of qualified technicians with an
IT background and experience not in demand in the local market. Skills development activities were to consist of
training modules, with courses in: algorithmic analysis, computer architecture, professional practice, operating systems
and networking, etc. capstone project.




                                                             4

Component IV: IT Business Surveys (USD0.300 million)

Through this component, the project was to monitor the regulatory environment for enterprises in
the IT cluster on a biannual basis. The purpose was to create constituencies for reform in the
business environment.      The surveys were to cover the need for improvements in business
registration, licensing and premises establishment; import/export regulation; product input and
equipment certification; tax administration; business inspection and patent practices.

Component V: Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (USD 0.200 million)

This component was to set up a unit that was to provide accounting, financial, and procurement
support to the project. It also was to provide administrative support to the enterprise incubator's
units, including assistance in preparing terms of reference, the selection of consultants/experts as
necessary, procurement of goods services, and works; supervision of work progress, and
intermediation in the case of conflict. Also in close coordination with the enterprise incubator,
the Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU) was to be responsible for supervising
loan accounting, procurement, disbursements, financial management reports, arrangements for
annual project audits and transmittal, to auditors, of all the documents and reports necessary to
perform their tasks.

1.6 Revised Components

The project's components remained the same through completion, though there were changes in
allocations of amounts among components as noted in Section 1.7.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

    Design, scope and scale: The Mid-Term Review (MTR) developed quantitative targets for
    assessing project outcome.

    Funding allocations:      An additional $900,000 became available during the project's
    implementation period due to the appreciation of the SDR relative to the US dollar. Primarily
    as a result of these additional funds, as well as higher private sector contributions, the dollar
    value of the project's overall costs increased from USD 7.6 million at appraisal to USD 9.9
    million at the end of the project. EIP used these funds for the design and implementation of
    new initiatives such as (i) the development of the Regional IT Center including the
    establishment in Gyumri center; (ii) the organization of additional training programs and
    events; and (iii) the expansion and promotion of joint projects between universities and the
    private sector.




                                                 5

    Implementation arrangements and schedule: An 18-month extension of the original closing
    date of June 30 2005 (to December 31, 2005) was necessary due to the considerable delay
    experienced in the project during its first 18-months of operation.7


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Background analysis

The background analysis for EIP was extensive and provided the key information necessary to
establish the project's objectives and design its components.                        Several background studies
supported the project's preparation, including a feasibility study of establishing technology
incubators (TIs) in Armenia based on the model of 24 TIs operating in Israel and including both
lessons from these operations and requirements for adjusting the model in application to Armenia.
The PAD also mentions the parallel preparation of the EIP with two strategy documents: (i)
Armenia IT Master plan and (ii) Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Strategy
Paper: Bridging the Digital Divide.

Objectives and components

The project's overall objective -- piloting innovative public-private mechanisms for providing
business development services to nascent enterprises and continuous education and training to IT
professionals--was broad and in line with the Armenia's needs that the background analysis
identified. The main lesson learned from global experience with business incubators, which the
project incorporated, was the effectiveness of the institutional model of an enhanced incubator,
consisting of a workspace with associated business services and training.

The wording of the first subsidiary objective in the PAD seems to have caused some ambiguity
about the main focus of the project during its implementation. Although the overall objective
focused on nascent companies, or companies already in existence needing assistance to grow and
develop, the wording of the first subsidiary objective --providing a demonstration effect of
company formation in an inhospitable business environment-- implied a focus on start-up
companies. At the same time, this statement referred to an initial beneficiary population of 50
start-up companies already in existence, which suggested nascent companies. The statement in
the main text contrasted with the statement of the same objective in the project's design summary,
which used the word development instead of formation, which was more in line with the overall
objective. However, other sections of the PAD, read in combination with the objectives, make it
clear that the project was to focus mainly on nascent companies but was also able to assist start-
up companies. With hindsight, it seemed that the impact of this wording was that reviews of
project's supervision and results seem to have focused more on the physical enterprise incubator




7The extension resulted primarily because of the late provision of the building for the Managed Workspace Component,
providing office and telecommunication services to start-up/nascent IT companies.




                                                           6

facility and start-up companies, whereas the project piloted an enhanced incubator of workspace,
business development services and training, in which start up companies and other companies
occupying the physical workspace were few compared to the overall number of companies
assisted.

Neither the supporting objectives nor the original monitoring framework had sufficient specificity
for evaluating the hypothesis that the LIL was to test. Furthermore, there was no clear alignment
between the key indicators for the objectives with those of the LIL hypothesis. In addition, there
were some inconsistencies within the PAD in the presentation of the project's monitoring
indicators. Table 2.1.1 shows an example of this using the indicator category "productivity and
financial outcome."

Table 2.1.1: Inconsistencies between monitoring indicators under the heading of productivity and
financial outcomes with the PAD
Summary of Indicators in the Main Text              Indicators in the Design Matrix
    · Productivity                                      · Increased exports and FDI
    · Product Quality                                   · No. of contracts signed with foreign
    · Capacity                                               companies
    · Delivery Time                                     · No. of CMMI certified companies
    · Backlog                                           · Increase in sales and profitability
    · Increase in Sales and Financial                   · Adoption of ISO 900 standards
         Profitability (% per employee and % of an
         in international benchmark)

Realism and complexity

The EIP was relatively complex ­ covering a managed workspace, a business development center,
a training center and analytical sector studies--especially for an implementing agency not in
existence at the time of appraisal. Also a timetable of three years to set up, monitor and analyze
the learning experiment was unrealistic given the steep learning curve for the fledgling agency
and the time required for results of technical assistance to take root and show an impact on
performance at both the enterprise and sector levels. Finally, with hindsight, the lack of an
available building for the project's MWS component at the time of project approval seemed
bound to result in delayed project implementation.

Government commitment

As indicated earlier, the EIP, linked to Armenia's IT Master Plan, had strong government
commitment. The preparation of the Master Plan took place under the guidance of a public-
private committee of stakeholders with input from international consultants. Also, in 2000, the
year before the EIP's appraisal, the Government had declared the development of information and
communication technologies as a priority for developing Armenia's economy.

Risk assessment

The assessment of the EIP's risk level as moderate was unrealistic. As discussed in an internal
review of the project's design, the project was inherently risky. Not only was the project to create
a new institution for Armenia but also the institution was to consist of three different facilities and
the project's planned time frame for implementation was only three years. Also there was no
condition of effectiveness requiring the building for the MWS to become available and the PAD
did not even include the delay in the availability of the building as a risk.



                                                  7

Evaluation of quality at entry

There was no formal evaluation of the project's quality-at-entry by the Bank's Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). However, the ICR team has based its evaluation on the harmonized, six-point
rating scale used by QAG, taking account of QAG's comments on the project's preparation and
design during its evaluation of the EIP's supervision in 2005. The ICR team found the strengths
of the EIP's preparation and appraisal were detailed background studies, clearly-defined
components and adequate alignment of the design of the project's components with the
development objective and learning experiment. However the project's quality at entry had three
main shortcomings that precluded a satisfactory rating:

        the EIP's preparation and design did not meet several of the requirements of a LIL--a
        clear, monitorable results framework, a time of preparation of three to six months, and a
        preparation cost of under USD100,000. The EIP's indicators were not specific enough to
        evaluate the project's objectives and learning experiment; the project took ten months to
        prepare; and the cost of preparation and appraisal was more than four times the specified
        cost ceiling for preparing a LIL.

        the project's design did not sufficiently incorporate substantial information from
        background studies, particularly data for the creation of baselines for the monitoring
        framework.

        there seems to have been a lack of quality control in the presentation of the final report,
        including a monitoring framework that did not adequately reflect that of the learning
        experiment and significant inconsistencies between certain indicators in the project's
        design matrix in the main text and those in the log frame matrix.

Although these shortcomings precluded a fully satisfactory rating, the project's quality- at- entry
was not entirely unsatisfactory. Given the two choices of moderately satisfactory or moderately
unsatisfactory, the assignment of higher weights to strategic relevance and institutional
development combined with the strengths of the components' design, resulted in an overall rating
of moderately satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Key Project Changes

    · The Credit for the project became effective in on June 10, 2002, about two and a half
        months after the planned effectiveness date (March 28, 2002). The delay was due to the
        Government's approval process for the project.

    · The project's actual closing date was December 31, 2006 instead of June 30, 2005 due to
        an extension necessary to address an 18-month delay in the project's implementation,
        primarily because of the protracted period for finding a building to house the Managed
        Workspace Component.




                                                8

Key issues and actions taken

The following sections summarize the four key issues that the project addressed during its
implementation:

Issue: Difficulties in securing the MWS (the project's physical incubator facility)

Between the signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), in December 2001, and the
effective date of the project (June 2002) there was hardly any progress in securing a building for
the MWS.        The initial delay caused a time lag in the implementation of both the MWS
Component and the Business Services Component.

Related action and results. In the first Project Status Report (PSR) that the Bank prepared, after
effectiveness (December 19, 2002), the Bank flagged the issue of the delay by downgrading the
rating of the MWS Component to unsatisfactory. At one point early in the EIP's implementation,
in the absence of progress made in securing a building, the Bank considered canceling the MWS
Component entirely and transferring its allocated funds to the Business Linkages and Skills
Development components. However, the supervision team did not downgrade the overall project
rating because two out of the project's three main components were performing well. The EIP's
team continued to rate the MWS component as unsatisfactory until the MWS was in place, which
did not occur until mid-2004, about two- thirds into the project's original implementation period.8

Issue: Downturn in the IT industry and the impact on demand for the project's services.

Visits to IT companies during the project's missions showed that Armenia's IT sector had
experienced substantial changes, attributed to the downturn in the global IT market. This change
prompted concern about how the EIF could meet the IT industry's changing needs.

Related actions and results. A strategy roundtable in 2002 brought attention to the need for the
EIF to diversify and customize its training curricula to match the evolving needs of the IT
industry. Furthermore, in order to develop a comprehensive picture of the changes taking place,
the EIF conducted a broad IT sector needs survey. This survey showed that despite its stable
growth rates, the sector needed a range of interventions to: (i) develop a domestic IT market; (ii)
improve the regulatory environment and access to finance; (iii) develop a skilled workforce; (iv)
attract FDI; and (v) promote local IT capacities abroad and facilitate sales activities and business
development in order to increase Armenia's competitiveness in the global IT market.

Issue: The lack of an adequate M&E framework for assessing the project's impact

As discussed earlier, the EIP's original results framework lacked quantitative indicators for
evaluating the project's progress in achieving its objectives. The Bank's supervision team, which
was different from the team that conducted the Project's appraisal, addressed this issue in the
context of the MTR, during which the Bank also reviewed the validity of the project's objectives.

Related actions and results. During the MTR, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to a set of
desired outcomes associated with the EIP's three objectives, which the Bank was to monitor



8The project obtained space at the premises of Slavonic University but the size of the space was less than anticipated at
appraisal and the cost to renovate it was nearly double the original estimate ­USD 404,000 compared to USD 250,000.




                                                            9

during the project's implementation. Also, following the MTR, the Bank hired a consulting firm
to work with EIF and the Bank in defining quantitative indicators linked to the objectives and a
methodology for monitoring them. The main result was that at the end of the project, the Bank
was able to assess the extent to which the project had met the generally worded objectives
through the specified indicators of outcomes. However, the shortcoming of the MTR was that it
apparently did not: (i) revisit, clarify, or revise the learning hypothesis embedded in the LIL; or
(ii) address the disconnect between the indicators in the PAD's design summary and those
specified elsewhere the PAD, for the evaluation of the learning hypothesis. Thus, with the
original learning hypothesis far in the background and no visible structure supporting it ­such as
the designation of control and beneficiary groups--the EIP essentially operated as regular
technical assistance project with a very detailed monitoring system.

Issue: The financial and institutional sustainability of the EIF

At the MTR, the Bank, in reviewing the projections of EIF's income at appraisal, found that they
were overly optimistic, particularly given the downturn in the IT sector that occurred shortly after
the project's appraisal.9 Also, towards the end of the project, the issue of the appropriate
institutional form for EIF arose. At the end of the project, the EIF was to lose its exemption from
Armenia's Law of Foundations, which it had received only for the implementation of the project.
The EIF's continuation as a foundation beyond the project required compliance with this law
which restricted administrative costs of foundations to no more than 20 percent of foundation's
total revenues. As a result, the EIF faced restrictions on its activities and a potential loss of staff.

Related action and results. The Bank analyzed the potential income from the EIF's services and
found the MWS was the most likely component to be financially sustainable at the end of the
project. User fees from private companies for business services and skills development had turned
out to be only about 10 percent of the original estimate at project appraisal. Therefore the Bank
stressed the need to fully occupy the existing space, smaller than anticipated at appraisal and
secure another space. By the end of the project, the Bank found the EIF's financial sustainability
highly likely with estimated annual revenues of USD$220,000 of which USD 180,000 and USD
36,000, respectively, came from rental fees for the Managed Workspace and consulting service
respectively. On the institutional side, in anticipation of the change in the EIF's requirements
following, the foundation created a spin-off company for its consulting activities so that its
administrative expenses as a foundation would fall within the Government's requirements.

Impact of the Mid-Term Review (MTR)

In 2004, the Bank launched an in-depth, MTR of the project. The MTR found the project's main
objectives worth of support but recommended the introduction of detailed quantitative indicators
for an effective evaluation of the project's impact. The MTR also addressed the issue of EIF's
long-term financial sustainability. It also included an expert on enterprise incubators to evaluate
the development of the EIF in line with international best-practice models. The MTR indicated
that the EIF model was close to the Austrian Academic and Business Initiative, which included
services in addition to a workspace. The experience with this model in Austria had proven highly
satisfactory, increasing employment by 24 percent annually in the first few years. The analysis
suggested that if the EIF were to continue to provide the same services after the end of the project,



9 Projections of EIF's annual income at the end of the project were about USD 1.2 million whereas in reality they were
likely to be more in the order of USD 200,000.




                                                          10

the foundation would likely generate only about 20 percent of its income from user fees and have
to rely on public funds for the rest of its budget. Although the projections of EIF's income at the
end of the project showed that EIF may obtain a higher share of its income from user fees, this
model remains valid given that it is likely that EIF will continue to need donor funding as
indicated.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Following the MTR, the Bank and EIF agreed for a major international consulting firm to act as a
third party monitoring agency for the project. For each of the three objectives in the PAD, the
consultant determined a set of outcomes, of which there were seven in all. These consisted of:
the number of start-ups created and developed; business linkages created; improved business
performance; the development of a viable incubation facility; the amount of FDI attracted to
companies that the project supported; improved technical and managerial competencies; and the
introduction of new practices at universities to improve the relevance of courses offered to the
dynamic environment of the IT industry. Annex 10 provides a full list of output and outcome
indicators that the EIP's project monitoring consultants tracked on a quarterly basis during the
past two years of the project's implementation.

The Bank selectively used the indicators of the monitoring agency in its status reports and in its
dialogue with EIF on future developments. Overall this system was beneficial to evaluating the
outcome of the project and a major improvement over the monitoring framework at appraisal,
which lacked quantitative targets. However, with hindsight, it would have been helpful if the
Bank had directed the monitoring agency to have: (i) given attention to the inconsistencies in the
statement of objectives; (ii) linked the indicators explicitly to the learning hypothesis; (iii)
focused more on the inter-relationships of outputs and outcomes; and (iv) made a distinction
between final outcomes and intermediate outcomes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Not Applicable. There were no major safeguard/fiduciary issues that arose during this project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

During the final supervision mission for the project, the Bank and EIF discussed the post-
completion operation of the EIF's and reviewed financial scenarios. As indicated earlier, at the
end of the project, the EIF had created a spin-off consulting company for business services given
limitations on administrative expenses as a foundation. The spin-off consulting company will
have EIF as one of its clients. Concerning the foundation, the occupancy rate of EIF's MWS is
100 percent, at market rates, and at the present time, the MWS appears sustainable. However, the
sustainability of the consulting company for business services will depend partially on the ability
of EIF, a major client, to raise funds for enterprise assistance. And any future training or
internships will require donor assistance. This public/private funding model is in line with
international practice for business incubators.




                                                 11

According to the consolidated projections for both the foundation and consulting company, total
revenues will increase from about USD 227,000 in 2007 to USD 1.2 million by 2016.
Correspondingly, during that period, the projections show the share of fees from business services
increasing from 15 percent to 55 percent, with the rest of the revenues resulting from the rental of
the MWS. While the increase in income and fees from business services may seem overly
optimistic, given increased attention to the IT sector and current indications of donor support, it
seems possible for EIF to reach its targets. EIF is in the final stages of qualifying for grant
support from Netherlands government with the support of the World Bank. In this context, the
Bank expects EIF to come up with a business plan for its two main business lines ­ the MWS and
consulting/training services.      This plan should highlight actions to ensure the financial
sustainability of the service portion of EIF with clear indicators for progress in meeting the
business plan's objectives. The business plan will also need to define steps for the possible
privatization of the financially sustainable business line (MWS). This business plan, which should
cover the next four years, could serve as a basis for the Bank's assistance, under Dutch trust funds,
in support of the planned Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation project, as well as possible
other donor assistance.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

According to the CAS covering the period FY 2005 to 2008, the promotion of private-sector led
economic growth is one of the three areas of development assistance in Armenia where the Bank
feels it has a comparative advantage relative to other donors. Bank assistance will focus on
improvements to the business environment and financial systems. Given that the development of
the IT sector is a key area of private sector development, it appears that the project remains
relevant in the present CAS context.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Despite shortcomings in project design, EIP met or exceeded all of its objectives based on the key
quantitative indicators established following the MTR. At appraisal the total number of IT
enterprises the Bank and the Borrower expected to benefit from the project was about 50. The
project far surpassed this initial estimation of the client base, providing consulting services and/or
training to 109 IT companies in Armenia, or about 73 percent of IT companies currently active in
the sector. The following sections review the target and actual output and outcome indicators
associated with the project's objectives that the monitoring agency tracked during the period
2004-2006.

Objective 1: Providing a demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable
business environment, by accelerating business linkages with foreign companies.

Outcomes compared to target. The outcomes tracked for this objective were the number of
sales/outsourcing contracts, the value of sales due to EIF's assistance, the number of sustained
start-up companies created and the number of persons employed by the start-up companies. The




                                                  12

EIP resulted in 20 sales/outsourcing contracts, exceeding the target of 14. Sales due to EIF
assistance amounted to USD307,000, slightly above the target (USD300,000).10 The project
focused primarily on assisting nascent companies outside of MWS, amounting to 92 percent of
the total client base of 109 companies. The MWS currently houses nine companies with 120
employees. The development of start-ups was not the main focus of the project, and these
companies currently account for only a third of the companies in the MWS. . Compared to the
target of two start-up companies, the project created three start-ups, according to EIF's evaluation
and two start-ups according to the monitoring agency's evaluation11 . Thus the EIP met its target
for startup companies. The resulted in the creation of 44 jobs, considering two start up companies
and 50 jobs considering three start up companies, compared to a target of 30 jobs. Furthermore,
the overall impact of the project on employment may have been much higher because, the EIP
monitored, at the enterprise level, only the jobs linked to the creation of start up companies and
not those that might have resulted from business services to nascent enterprises, which were
EIF's main client base. However, the project also tracked both employment and productivity at
the sector level, as discussed in Section 3.5.

From outputs to outcomes.             The monitoring agency tracked a combination of outputs and
intermediate outcomes12 of, the project's components for business services and the MWS. The
key outputs for increasing sales were the placement of two foreign representatives to target
business linkages; the organization of events to promote Armenia's IT sector; and the provision
of consulting services to both start-up and nascent companies in order to help them improve
business performance.

The project placed two foreign representatives abroad, one in Canada and another in Europe
(Austria), meeting the target for these placements. The project organized seven promotion events,
more than double the target (three events). The EIF generated a substantially larger number of
contracts for its consulting services than originally planned ­92 compared to a target of 56. The
project received 25 applications to form start-up companies, fewer than the 30 planned but still
met its target for start-up company development.

The project monitored several intermediate outcomes leading to the final outcomes planned.
Foreign representatives followed up on 121 targets for business opportunities nearly the double of
the number of targets planned (60) and developed 79 leads for business compared to 40 planned.
The project exceeded the planned occupancy rate of the MWS renting out 100 percent of the
space, compared to 90 percent planned and at a rate slightly higher than the average market rate
for office space.

Objective 2: Providing a demonstration effect of foreign direct investments in IT-related
manufacturing




10EIF has reported an additional USD520, 000 in sales/outsourcing contracts, claiming that the monitoring agency did
not include two contacts resulting from EIF's Canadian representative.

11The monitoring agency only counted the two start-up companies in which EIP had direct ownership.

12The project's monitoring agency did not distinguish between intermediate and final outcomes. The ICR team has
made this distinction.




                                                         13

Outcomes compared to target. The main outcome indicators for this objective were the number of
foreign investment projects initiated or realized and the total dollar value of investment associated
with these projects. The project resulted in six foreign investment projects (including global
international corporations such as Alcatel, Lycos Europe, Sun Microsystems, HP, FESTO ­
Didactic and others), exceeding the planned target of four. The total dollar value of this
investment amounted to USD 1.97 million, compared to a target of USD 1.8 million.

From outputs to outcome. The main output indicator for the foreign investment outcome was the
number of companies supported to receive foreign investment, which were 18 compared to a
target of 17. In addition, some of the project's outputs that supported the first objective (company
formation and development) such as the placement of EIF's foreign representatives, promotional
events, etc., also contributed to attracting FDI to Armenian companies.

Objective 3: Piloting demand-driven mechanisms of continuous upgrading of IT skills
among IT professionals, enterprise managers and employees

Outcome compared to target. EIP's monitoring consultants tracked the demand for training
through the number of consultations with enterprises that focused on improving managerial skills.
They also tracked the number of participants in various training courses; roundtable discussions;
applications for contests held; and the number of students benefiting from new courses that
resulted from joint projects with universities. EIF held 121 consultations with enterprises targeted
at skills improvement, compared to 99 planned. Training programs had a total of 262 participants
compared to a target of 210, representing 92 companies, nearly double the target of 47 companies.
The number of participants in roundtable discussions was significantly higher than planned, 706,
compared to 560. The target number of applications planned for contests was supposed to be
greater than 500. In total, the project generated 1,438 applications. The number of students
benefiting from new university courses was 452 compared to a target of 400.

From outputs to outcomes. The outputs that the project tracked were the number of training
programs, seminars/roundtables, and contests           held and the number of completed
university/private sector projects completed. The project exceeded the targets for all of these
indicators as follows, with the target in parentheses: 18 training programs (target: 14); 31
seminars/roundtables (target: 23); 10 contests (target: 3). By increasing the number of
opportunities for skills development, the project expanded the outcome in terms of the demand
for training and participation in contests.

Review of the learning and innovation indicators selected at appraisal

The PAD noted three indicators to follow for monitoring the learning process but provided no
targets for any of them and a baseline for one of them. It also did not integrate these with the
project's overall results monitoring framework. However, the ICR team decided to revisit the
experiment with quantitative information available from the project to see how the project
performed from the perspective of the appraisal.

The first indicator was the productivity resulting from skill development under the EIP, measured
for the enterprises assisted by the project and for a control group. However, the project's
implementation prior to MTR never defined a control group. And by the MTR, it was too late.
Furthermore, with hindsight this may not have been necessary since the enhanced enterprise
incubator already had proven effective in other countries. In any case, the test from MTR onward
became not whether the enhanced incubator would be effective but just how effective it would be
in Armenia. The project's monitoring agency did not track productivity development; however,


                                                  14

EIF and the Bank, as part of its monitoring of sector developments, financed a report on the state
of the industry that measure productivity in Armenia against other countries and found that for all
IT enterprises (of which EIF assisted about 73 percent) nominal productivity had increased by 65
percent. However, the country's productivity relative to US standards had declined due to the
appreciation of the US dollar against the Armenian Dram. Given that the project assisted nearly
three quarters of the enterprises in the sector, it is likely the project contributed significantly to
the overall improvement in nominal productivity.

The second indicator was the demand for, and cost recovery of, the incubator's development
services. As indicated above (referring to the outcomes) the demand for the incubator's services
was much higher than expected. Also, Annex 5 provides a brief analysis of service packages that
emerged in this project based on different groupings of enterprises. Furthermore, the project
tracked the income from business consulting services, actual and projected, preparing realistic,
pessimistic and optimistic scenarios. The realistic scenario, as discussed in earlier (in Section
2.2) shows that the share of income from these services in EIF's total income will rise
substantially accounting for more than half of EIF's combined income of its consulting and
foundation activities by 2017.

The third indicator was the co-investment in the incubator by other donors, Diaspora and
investors, as a test of the business incubator's ability to leverage resources, both private and
public. The PAD identified this factor as the ratio of the total project costs to Bank financing.
Given project costs at USD 7.6 million at and Bank financing of USD 5 million, the baseline ratio
was 1.5. The PAD provided no target leverage factor. However, considering that joint ventures
resulting from the project between EIF and donors amounted to about USD3.8 million, the
leverage factor during the project's implementation period increased to 2.3.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The PAD did not include any of the above estimates of efficiency. However, in the section on the
learning and innovation expectations, the PAD mentioned both direct and indirect economic and
financial benefits, though without any quantitative targets. The ICR has evaluated these to the
extent possible in Annex 3.

The direct economic benefit, according to the PAD, was to be the attraction of enough FDI to
increase knowledge exports and reduce the brain drain. The project attracted about USD 2
million in FDI but it is not possible to say definitively how this investment affected either of these
two factors. In terms of exports, the project, as part of its monitoring of sector developments,
produced a report on the state of the IT industry in 2006 showing a 30 percent average annual
growth of exports during 2003-2006, the most active years of the project, which assisted nearly
three quarters of Armenia's IT companies. As an indirect economic benefit, the PAD projected
that the increased economic activity in the IT sector would encourage restructuring in other
sectors of the economy. This type of monitoring was outside the framework of the project's
monitoring system.

The PAD mentioned two expected financial benefits. The direct benefit was to consist of tax
revenues to the Government resulting from the companies housed in EIF. However, the PAD
provided no target figure or monitoring system for assessing this benefit. The ICR cannot assess
this benefit because the Bank does not have access to the tax information of companies housed in
EIF. The PAD also noted an indirect financial benefit expected--that the project would help


                                                  15

launch companies that otherwise might not remain in the information sector without being
accounted for in the tax base. The Bank cannot assess this benefit because it is not in a position
to say which companies might have chosen to pay taxes or not.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR has rated the overall outcome of the EIP as satisfactory because the project: has (i)
remained relevant to the CAS, despite the lack of a follow-up operation; (ii) exceeded or met
most of its outcome indicators; (iii) attracted a significant amount of revenues to the sector and
the Government; and (iv) produced a sustainable institution for delivering multiple services to IT
companies. The rating also takes into account shortcomings such as deficiencies in the design
and monitoring framework at appraisal, and the fact that it did not meet several requirements for a
LIL (as discussed in Section 2.1) as well as the delay in the availability of the MWS. Without
these shortcomings and delays, it is possible that the EIP's performance could have been highly
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

In addition to indicators of performance at the enterprise level, the Bank and EIF, at the
MTR ,established sector-wide targets for increases in exports, the number of IT companies, and
the IT workforce and university graduates employed by the IT sector. Table 3.5.1 summarizes
baseline figures for 2003 and targets for 2004.

                 Table 3.5.1 Baseline and Targets and Actual Key Sector Indicators
Indicator                              Baseline          Target for the Period    Actual for the
                                       (2003)                 2004-2006         Period 2004-2006
                                       (%)                                       Average annual
                                                           (Average annual           growth
                                                               growth)                 (%)
Increase in IT exports                 10               10                      30
Annual growth in the number of IT      5                5                       13
companies
Increase in graduates employed by the  15               20                      15-16
IT sector
Source: Bank Staff estimates and EIP

As Table 3.5.1 indicates, the IT sector substantially exceeded its targets for exports and the
growth of IT companies for the period 2004-2006. However, the growth of the IT work force and
graduates employed in the IT sector, at 15-16 percent was slightly below the target.

As part of its component for sector studies, the project funded a major study of Armenia's IT
industry, which a covers the above indicators and others in more detail. The study also presents a
history of the IT industry; points out Armenia's advantages and constraints; and discusses a
vision for the future. In terms of business development prospects, the study makes a number of
recommendations, which include the need for:           (i) improvements in productivity through
government incentives for companies to invest in the development of their employees; (ii) better
infrastructure, such as high-speed Internet service; (iii) a shift to higher value products and
services; and (iv) the expansion of the domestic IT market.



                                                16

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project did not develop targets for any of the above impacts, although the employment
generated by the project likely has contributed to poverty reduction. Early in the project there
were some indications that woman were under-represented in the IT sector. However, studies
during the period of the project's implementation period showed that this was not the case, at
least in IT education, given the finding that the number of women13 studying IT at universities in
Armenia was higher than the number of men.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

At completion, the PAD envisioned that the IT business incubator would grow into a private
organization; evolve into a "virtual incubator" or "incubator without walls;" and become a
promotional organization for attracting FDI to the IT sector in Armenia. At the end of the project,
EIF seems to already have fulfilled that vision. More than 90 percent of the companies that EIF
had assisted by the end of 2006 were outside the walls of the incubator. Furthermore, as indicated
earlier, EIF has created a spin-off private consulting company, while part of it (EIF) remains a
foundation. Finally EIF has been successful in promoting Armenia's IT sector abroad and has
helped to attract a about USD 2 million in foreign investment for the IT sector. Furthermore,
EIF's reach, in terms of companies assisted, extended far beyond what the project's appraisal had
suggested.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A beneficiary survey was not a requirement for this ICR. However, using data on EIF's client
base, the ICR team decided to prepare a brief analysis of the demand for EIF's services as well as
indications of client satisfaction, in order to deepen the learning experience from this project and
provide EIF with information it could possibly use in its future marketing activities. Based on a
sample of 64 of the 109 companies that EIF assisted under EIP, a variety of services is necessary
to address differing needs of companies based on their size and age. The service package most in
demand seems to be a combination of business services (including business development, sales
and country promotion activities in international markets, FDI promotion, etc.) and training in
both technical aspects of the IT industry and in sales/promotion. The next highest demand is for
business management services and related training. Annex 5 provides the detailed results.




13Larger number of women enrolled in higher education is in part due to compulsory male military service after
secondary school.




                                                      17

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The QAG has rated the sustainability of the project as uncertain. The project team believes that
there is only a negligible to low risk that the project's development outcomes will not be
sustainable. The Government's successful stabilization and structural reform record indicates a
progressively improving policy and business environment, which should support the further
development of enterprises that have benefited from the project as well as future beneficiaries of
EIF's services. The IT sector has become increasingly important to the Armenian economy
(indicated by its share of GDP) and the Government continues to give the sector's development a
priority. The financial sustainability of the project is likely due to income EIF's services already
have generated and the realistic financial scenario that the Bank and EIF have developed.

Despite the anticipated government changes as a result of Parliamentary and Presidential
elections, in 2007 and 2008 respectively, there is limited political risk to the development
outcomes. This is due to the fact that private sector development in general and that in the IT
sector in particular, remain priorities for the second generation of reforms currently in progress.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The ICR has rated the Bank's performance in ensuring the project's quality at entry was
moderately satisfactory.     The project's preparation had substantial background work; its
development objective supported the CAS; and its components were on target in terms of the
enhanced incubator's design.        However the appraisal did not make effective use of the
considerable amount of background material available on the sector to give more specificity to
the definition of the learning experiment or share these materials with the EIF. Also the project
did not meet key requirements of the LIL concerning clarity of monitoring indicators and
cost/timing involved in preparation. Furthermore, the QAG review of supervision called into
question whether the project really qualified as a LIL.             Finally there were substantial
inconsistencies in the PAD, which indicated that there may have been insufficient quality control
in the production of the final PAD. The ICR team's evaluation found that these shortcomings
were significant enough for the Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry not to merit a
fully satisfactory rating but that the strengths of the project's design were substantial enough to
preclude a rating less than moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

The QAG has rated Bank supervision performance as moderately unsatisfactory. The ICR team
has rated supervision as moderately satisfactory, with supervision performance before the MTR
moderately unsatisfactory and supervision from the MTR to the end of the project satisfactory.
The main reason for the lower overall rating by QAG seems to have been: (i) the perceived lack
of sufficient action on the part of the Bank to push the Borrower to provide the building for the
workspace component; and (ii) the lack of appropriate ratings in the project status reports (PSRs)
calling attention to the problem. The ICR agrees with the QAG finding that the project's status
reports before MTR often were repetitive.          And although there is evidence that the early
supervision team called attention to the problem of the MWS, it could have made more of an



                                                   18

effort to improve disbursements, which at the mid point of the project only amounted to about 15
percent of the Credit. Concerning the project's supervision during the second half of the
implementation period, the QAG has noted that the MTR was of good quality. Furthermore, the
supervision team developed a detailed monitoring system and introduced EIF to best practice
models of enterprise indicators to follow in its future development.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR has used the six-point, harmonized quantitative rating system for evaluating, separately,
the Bank's performance in ensuring the project's quality at entry and its supervision. It has used
the ICR's qualitative guidelines for evaluation both dimensions ­quality of entry and appraisal.
Given the rating of moderately satisfactory for quality at entry and supervision, the guidelines call
for an overall rating of moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Except for the delay in providing the building for the project's MWS Component (the physical
incubator), the Governments' overall performance in supporting the project was satisfactory. The
Government provided considerable policy support during the project's implementation period in
the context of the structural adjustment credits (SACs) and poverty reduction strategy credits
(PRSCs). The Government made improvements to the policy environment, which included
reducing the number of steps required to register a business by one third and cutting the number
of Government inspections by half. Also, surveys in Armenia have reported improvements in
enterprise perceptions of the business environment.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The ICR has rated EIF's performance as highly satisfactory because its impact on the IT sector
was far greater than anticipated at appraisal and the agency performed all of its functions under
the project diligently. EIF earned a highly satisfactory rating in the final supervision report, in
recognition of the agency's exceptional ability to overcome earlier project delays and changes in
the IT sector. Ultimately the EIF managed to assist more than double the number of IT enterprises
identified at appraisal. As a result, the project, meant to be a pilot operation, managed to assist
nearly three quarters of Armenia's active IT companies. Due to EIF's high level of initiative, the
project met or surpassed all of its objectives based on major target indicators. Also EIF received a
100 percent positive feedback on its operation of the MWS and related services, verified by the
monitoring agency, compared to a target of 80 percent. Finally, EIF's efforts introduced venture
capital funding to Armenia's IT industry and were instrumental in bringing major global IT
companies, such as Hewlitt Packard, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, and others, to Armenia.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR has used the six-point, harmonized quantitative rating system for evaluating the
Borrowers performance and the Implementing Agency's performance. It has used the ICR's
qualitative guidelines for evaluation both dimensions ­performance of the Government and that



                                                  19

of the Implementing Agency. Based on rating of satisfactory for the Government's performance
and highly satisfactory for the Implementing Agency's performance, the guidelines call for an
overall rating of satisfactory for the Borrower.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Project-specific lessons:

    · The enhanced incubator model tested during the project seems to be an appropriate
        vehicle for addressing the market failures in the Armenia's IT sector given that
        considerable demand emerged not only for the MWS, which had 100 percent occupancy
        at the end of the project but also for business services and training, given that the project
        exceeded target demand levels in both of these areas. In terms of the number of
        companies assisted, the EIF's main role seems to be as a "virtual incubator" given that
        only about eight percent of the companies in the sample are residents in the managed
        workspace that the EIF provides.

    · According to sample company data, the service package most in demand in Armenia's IT
        industry seems to be a combination of business services and training, in both technical
        aspects of the IT industry and in sales and promotion. The next highest demand is for
        business management services and related training. There is considerably less demand in
        the area of financial management, with none of the companies in the sample reviewed
        receiving business services in this area, and only about 11 percent of the companies in the
        sample using training services in the financial field. At the same time, there seems to be a
        significant need for consulting services in the legal field and taxation/customs, mostly for
        nascent companies (developed since 2004) and start up companies.

    · With hindsight, the original design of including a control group to test the impact of an
        incubator enhanced with business services and training may not have been necessary.
        International studies elsewhere already had demonstrated the concept. Furthermore, at the
        time of project appraisal there was a low base of IT companies and as it turned out even
        during the pilot testing, the incubator assisted nearly three quarters of Armenia's IT
        industry.

Lessons of General Applicability

    · A LIL is probably not the most appropriate vehicle for launching any future enterprise
        incubators based on the experience with EIF, particularly since there already has been
        considerable global experience with them. The project's design involved a considerable
        amount of background work. It exceeded the guidelines for LILs in terms of time to
        prepare, lending and supervision costs and implementation period. Given the global
        knowledge base in testing enhanced incubators, a full technical assistance project, might
        have been more suitable.

    · It is better not to define pre-set packages of services in designing an enterprise incubator
        project, due to the diversity of company needs, even within the same sector, and instead
        allow the service packages to emerge from the market place, hiring experts as needed and
        using surveys to assess the needs of potential clients.




                                                 20

    · The usual design of the PAD does not provide enough up-front attention to the learning
       hypothesis and its linkage to the development objectives and monitoring indicators.
       Instead of having it embedded in different parts of the LIL appraisal document, it would
       be better to have the hypothesis explicitly stated upfront after the project's development
       objective with indicators that are specific enough to test and evaluate the hypothesis.

    · The lack of sufficient quality control for a LIL, in the absence of the reviews required for
       Board presentation, essentially transfers the appraisal work to the implementation stage,
       and this can cause delays that may jeopardize the outcome of the project.

    · In defining a monitoring framework, in order to keep the focus on the main objective, it is
       important to clarify the hierarchy and inter-relationships of final outcome indicators and
       intermediate indicators, in addition to their relationship to outputs, especially when there
       are such a large number of indicators (35 in the case of EIP). Also there should be a clear
       link between the monitoring indicators and the learning hypothesis to be tested and not
       just the general overall objectives.

    · Any future incubator project including a building donated or rented by the Government
       should be in place before the start of the project and therefore should be a condition of
       effectiveness.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                        Revised            Actual/Latest
     Components             Appraisal14Estimate                                                    Percentage of
                               (USD millions)          Allocation             Estimate
                                                     (USD million)          (USD million)            Appraisal

MANAGED                                     2.06                1.90
WORKSPACE                                                                              1.68             81.6

BUSINESS SERVICES                                                6.45
CENTER                                      3.51                                       6.25             178.1

SKILLS                                                           1.47
DEVELOPMENT                                 0.91                                       1.43             157.1


IT Business Surveys                         0.30                 0.11                  0.11             36.7
PIMU                                        0.20                 0.45                  0.43             215.0
Total Baseline Cost                         6.98                10.38                  9.90             141.8
Physical Contingencies                      0.49                 0.00                  0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies                         0.10                 0.00                  0.00             0.00
Total Project Costs                       7.57                  10.38                  9.90             141.8
Total Financing
Required                                    7.57               10.38                   9.90             130.3



(b) Financing
                              Appraisal               Revised              Actual/Latest

  Source of Funds             Estimate15              Estimate                Estimate             Percentage of
                                                                                                     Appraisal
                            (USD million)          (USD million)            (USD million
Borrower                0.45                    0.45                    0.46                  102.2
International
Development             5.00                    5.93                    5.47                  109.4
Association (IDA)
Foreign Private
Commercial Sources
16                      2.12                    4.0                    3.97                   184.6
Total                    7.57                   10.38                  9.90                   130.3




14Figures rounded to the nearest USD 10,000.

15Figure for estimate of foreign private commercial sources rounded up to the nearest USD 10,000 for consistency with
project costs estimates.

16These sources were not identified at appraisal.




                                                         22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component/Output Indicator                    Target    Actual
                                                        Achievement
Managed Workspace Component
--No. of start-up companies created           3         2 (or 3 if Isomech
                                                        is included)
Business Services Component
--No. of EIF's foreign representatives        2         2
--No. of events organized                     3         7
--No. of publications                         8         11
--No. of agreements to provide consulting     56        92
Training Component
--No. of managers and other professionals     10        11
participating in secondments.
--No. of training programs/sessions held      14        18
--Number of seminars/roundtables              23        31
--No. of contests                             3         10
--No. of participants in contests             >250      1058




                                           23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)

Learning and Innovation Expectations and Results
Category       Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/ICR Estimate
Overall        Project would facilitate Armenia's    EIF has provided business development services
Learning       entry into the global knowledge-      and training to about 109 companies in the IT

and            based economy and have positive       sector, or around 73 percent of the estimated 150
               direct and indirect benefits.         companies    active    in   Armenia's      IT    sector.
innovation                                           Furthermore, EIF has helped to establish three start-
impact                                               up companies with a total of 50 employees.

Economic Benefits
--Direct       Facilitate company formation and      The project helped established several important
Benefits       growth, and attract enough FDI to     linkages with foreign companies and organizations
               increase knowledge based exports      in support of Armenia's IT development.             By
               and reverse or reduce brain drain     providing training facilities and job opportunities
               due to better opportunities abroad.   these linkages will help to reduce the brain drain
                                                     and build a world class IT capability in Armenia. :

                                                     Cafesjian Family Foundation:         established, with
                                                     EIF, a venture capital firm with statutory fund of
                                                     about USD 1 million.

                                                     LYCOS Europe has committed to provide consulting
                                                     and IT agreements to Sourcio, valued at about
                                                     USD400,000.

                                                     Sun Microsystems has signed a joint Memorandum
                                                     of Understanding (MOU) with EIF for establishing
                                                     a Sun technology program in Armenia (venture
                                                     valued at an estimated USD 2.8 million).

                                                     Fund    for  Armenia      and   Relief    and    Shirak
                                                     Technologies, in partnership with EIF, have
                                                     established a fully equipped training/research and
                                                     development center to help expand the use of local
                                                     capacity.   (Estimated      value    of    partnership:
                                                     USD80,000).

                                                     Alcatel has signed an MOU with EIF for strategic
                                                     partnership in developing business technologies and
                                                     economic development, establishing a Multimedia
                                                     Competence Center.


--Indirect     Increased economic activity in the    The PAD did not specify how to monitor this and
Benefits       IT sector to trigger restructuring in did not define a specific study for it at appraisal.
               other sectors of the economy,
               notably    machinery,      diamond-
               cutting and garment manufacturing




                                                   24

Financial Analysis
--Direct       Companies      housed    by    the  Information on the tax revenues of companies
Benefits       Incubator to produce significant    housed in EIF is not available.
               tax revenues. [Note: the PAD
               provided no estimate of these
               revenues].
--Indirect     The    Incubator   would    launch  The Bank is not in a position to say which
Benefits       companies that otherwise might      enterprises might have paid taxes or not.
               have remained in the information
               sector, without being accounted for
               in the tax base. [Note: the PAD
               gave no estimate for the number of
               companies    that   the   project's
               managed      workspace      would
               launch.]




                                                 25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Vladimir Kreacic         Team Leader and Senior
                         Privatization Specialist            ECSPF Privatization

Yevgeny Kuznetsov        Co-Task Team Leader                 LCSFR
Begloian                 Consultant                          ECSPF
Boutaev                  Consultant                          ECSPF
Kirakossian              Consultant                          ECSPF
Shoab Naqvi              Consultant                          ECSPF

Supervision/ICR

Ramin Shojai             Task Team Leader                            Private Sector
                                                                     Development
Hormoz Aghdaey           Lead Financial Sector Specialist    ECSPF Finance
Lia Aghamyan             Financial Sector Specialist.        ECSPF Finance

Arman Vatyan             Senior Financial Management
                         Specialist                          ECSPS Finance

Alexander Astvatsatryan  Procurement Officer                 ECSPS Procurement
Karen Grigorian          Economist                           ECSPF Economics
Arben Maho               Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS Procurement
Nelli Khachatryan        Program Assistant                  ECCAR




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                   8.64
  FY99                                                                  65.89
  FY00                                      13                          79.90
  FY01                                      39                         157.88
  FY02                                      21                         112.17
  FY03                                                                  -0.21
  FY04                                                                   0.06
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00




                                          26

                   Total:     73    424.33

Supervision/ICR
 FY98                                 0.00
 FY99                                 0.00
 FY00                                 0.25
 FY01                          1      1.16
 FY02                                 6.06
 FY03                         10     86.08
 FY04                         35    104.33
 FY05                         41    106.16
 FY06                         22     97.49
 FY07                         11     45.63
                   Total:    120    447.16




                            27

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


                                            ARMENIA

                        ENTERPRISE INCUBATOR PROJECT (EIP)
              REVIEW OF BENEFICIARY RESPONSE TO THE ENHANCED
                                  IT BUSINESS INCUBATOR


Summary

An evaluation of a sample of 64 of the 109 companies that the Enterprise Incubator Foundation
(EIF) assisted under the Enterprise Incubator Project (EIP) seems to confirm the hypothesis tested
by the project that there is a significant demand in the Armenian context for an enhanced
incubator ­one that provides business services and training in addition to a workspace. Also
company data show that a variety of services is necessary to address differing needs of companies
based on their size and age. Although many companies received a combined package of business
consulting and training services during the project's implementation, the number of training
services companies used was about a third higher than the number of business services used.
However the aggregate number alone does not reveal the entire picture of demand and depending
on the functional area, the age of the company, and the size of the company, the demand for
business consulting services in some cases can exceed that for training.

In terms of the number of companies assisted, EIF's main role seems to be as a "virtual
incubator" given that only about eight percent of the companies in the sample are residents in the
managed workspace that EIF provides. The service package most in demand seems to be a
combination of business services and training in both technical aspects of the IT industry and
sales/promotion. The next highest demand is for business management services and related
training. There is considerably less demand in the area of financial management, with none of the
companies in the sample receiving business services in this area and only about 11 percent of the
companies in the sample using training services in the financial field. However, there seems to be
a significant need for consulting services in the legal field and taxation/customs, mostly for
nascent companies (developed since 2004) and start up companies.

Evaluation Approach

EIF provided a list of 109 companies and institutions receiving business and consulting services
during the project's implementation period.         Information on the date of a company's
establishment and number of employees was available for 64 of these entities. No data was
available for sales revenues of due to EIF's agreement with the individual companies not to
disclose this data. The evaluation looked at the demand for business services by age and size of
company/institution. It also grouped the business services and training into the following five
categories to see the types of service packages that emerged during the project. Finally, the
evaluation reviewed the companies occupying the managed workspace to see their demand for
services and the extent to which this differed between start-up companies and nascent companies.




                                                28

Findings by Category

By functional area of service. The largest area of demand for EIF's services was for training in
various technical aspects of the IT industry, about 76 percent of companies in the sample,
followed closely by sales and promotion at 73 percent. However, the number of companies using
training services in technical areas was more than double the number using consulting services.
In contrast for sales and promotion, the number of companies using training services was about
35 percent higher than the number of companies using business services. For the combined
category of legal, accounting, tax and customs services, the number of companies using business
service was more than double the number using related training services. None of the companies
used business consulting services for specified for financial management, while the demand for
training services in this area was equal to the demand for training in the legal, accounting
taxes/customs areas of business operations (Table 1).

               Table 1: No. of Sample Companies Using Services by Functional Area
Functional Area           Business Consulting     Training Services        Both Services
                          Services
Business and Project      20                      17                       37
Management
Sales and promotion       20                      27                       47

Technical Aspects of      15                      34                       49
the IT Industry
Financial Management      0                       7                        7

Legal, accounting,        14                      7                        21
taxes/customs
Notes:
Enterprise and project management: business plans, entrepreneurship grants, etc.
Sales and promotion: Negotiations, assistance in participation in trade fairs, presentation skills,
internships abroad for training and business contacts, etc.
Technical aspects of the IT business: Network security, CMMI certification, Dot Net Post
training consultancy, etc.
Financial Management: There was no further specification of this area of business consulting or
training
Legal, Accounting, Customs and Taxes: Companies often received these services grouped
together and there was no further specification



By size of company. The average size of client entity using EIF's services was about 200
employees mainly due to the fact that in addition to start-up and nascent companies in the IT
industry, EIF provided services to institutes, universities and the large telecommunications
company, Armentel. However, a closer look at the profile shows, about 69 percent of companies
had fewer than 50 employees and 43 percent of companies had fewer than 20 employees. These
figures are in line with the average company size in the IT industry, which are about 30
employees. Companies with fewer than 10 employees used about 47 percent more training
services than business consulting services. And the same pattern appeared for companies on the
other end of the spectrum, those with more than 100 employees, though by a far greater order of
magnitude; they used four to ten times as many training services as business services. Companies
with between 20 and 100 employees used nearly an equivalent amount of business and consulting




                                               29

services. However, contrary to the trend for the rest of the group, companies with between 10
and 20 employees used more business consulting services than training services (See Table 2).

 Table 2: Use of EIF's Business and Training Services by Size of Company
                                           No.of            No. of          No. of
                                           Enterprises in   Business        Training
 No. of Employees                          Category         Services Used   Services Used
 <10                                                   15               17              25
 10 to 20                                              12               28              22
 20 to 50                                              16               28              30
 50 to 100                                               7              23              23
 100 to200                                               6               3              12
 >200                                                    7               2              22
 Total                                                 63              101             134

By age of company. About half of the entities receiving services from EIF had a founding date
before 2001 and the start of the project. For the companies that were established before 2003 the
number of training services used was about 40 to 60 percent higher than business consulting
services used. However, for the most recently founded companies, since 2004, the numbers of
business consulting services and training services were close, with business services slightly
higher (See Table 2).


 Table 3: Use of EIF's Business and Training Services by Age of Company

                                           No. of                            No. of
                                           Enterprises in   No. of Business Training
 Year of establishment                     Category         Services Used   Services Used
 Before 2001                                           32               51               72
 2001-2003                                             19               23               37
 2004-2006                                             13               27               25
 Total for all sample companies                        64              101              134

By companies using the Managed Workspace (MWS). Of the 64 companies in the sample,
four companies were tenants of the MWS that the project provided, with a combined total of 90
employees. One of the companies were nascent companies (founded in 2003), with total of 30
employees and the other three were start-up companies (two founded in 2006 and one in 2005)
with a combined total of 50 employees. Most of the companies used combination of business
consulting and training services.

The nascent companies, M-possible, engaged in the development of wireless entertainment
content (30 employees), and used services for capability assessment and software process
improvement along with business development services. The training services the company used
were multi-faceted covering IT project management, financial management, and tax and custom
legislation.

The service needs of the three start-up companies were varied as well. AIT, with four employees,
engaged in the implementation and support of large-scale technological systems and their
components did not use any training services at all but used consulting services for legal matters
and business development.       In contrast, Ismotech, the other small start-up company (six
employees), engaged in mobile applications development, used legal services, technical



                                                30

consulting for positioning and tracking solutions, including training in this area and received an
internship in Europe. Sourcio, the largest of the three start-ups (40 employees), contracted for a
wide variety of consulting services and training. The business services used include legal and
accounting services, assistance for participation in trade expositions and consulting in technical
aspects of the industry. The training of the company's employees covered product management,
Java web components, computer and network security and effective sales.

Conclusions

There appears to be a considerable demand for EIF's services, from which about 70 percent of the
companies in Armenia's IT sector have benefited. The project's hypothesis that a combination of
business services, sales, promotion and training is necessary in addition to the provision of a
workspace seems to be valid in the current Armenian market. Also, given that only a small
portion of the company's assisted (eight percent of the companies in the sample) actually occupy
the workspace that EIF provides, the Foundation functions more as a virtual incubator, Also, as
envisaged at appraisal, the EIF assisted primarily nascent companies and companies that have
been in existence for a long time, requiring an upgrading of skills and business development.
EIF's services were not only confined to IT enterprises. The company also provided services to
institutes and universities, primarily technical training. With hindsight, in designing and incubator
project, it may be best not to specify a number of business services and training packages in
advance, instead allowing flexibility in meeting the varied needs of Armenia's IT industry.




                                                  31

Attachment 1: List of Companies in the Sample Reviewed

* Denotes nascent company user of the Managed Workspace (MWS)
**Denotes start-up company user the MWS
Company                  Year Est.        Employees       Bus. Serv.   Training
ABM Soft *                          2002              40             1           2
AIT**                               2006               4             3           0
Algorithm                           1992              11             9           4
ArmCAD                              2002               3             0           1
Armentel                            1995           5,000             0           1
Arminco                             1992              80             4           0
Artsoft                             2004               4             1           3
Aviainfotel                         1999              65             7           3
Bi Line                             1996              19             3           1
Broncoway                           2004              12             2           2
CIT                                 1992              70             6           8
Click                               2004              21             1           0
Credence                            1998              38             2           2
Danlet                              2001               6             0           1
DG Contact                          2004              10             3           2
Dolphin                             1999              15             0           1
E-Armenia                           2001              25             0           2
EBS**                               2003              32             0           0
EpygiLabs                           1998             110             0           1
Financial                           2004               5             1           3
Geocom                              1995               6             1           0
HayTech                             2001               4             0           1
Hitegrity                           1998              30             2           2
HPLA                                1995             116             0           3
Hylink                              1992              30             0           3
I-Mate                              2003              35             0           2
Informatic                          2000               6             2           2
Institute                           1957             160             1           1
Ismotech**                          2006               6             2           1
Khartia                             1995              17             3           3
Lans                                1996              16             0           1
Leda Design                         2000             140             0           1
Linkguard                           2004              26             2           1
Link                                1996              28             2           1
Lsoft                               1995              53             3           3
Lycos Armenia                       2002             200             1           8
MemcoSoft                           2004               8             1           0
Microring                           1990               2             2           2
Migma                               1996              11             0           0
M-possible                          2003              30             2           3
Mshak                               1994             125             0           2
National Academy                    1943           3,700             0           2
NATC                                2003              20             1           1
NetMen                              2003               8             3           0



                                               32

Nork Information     2004     120      2      4
Ponte Solutions      2002      60      1      0
State Eng. Univ.     1933     1000     1      7
Sirius               1963      70      2      7
Sourcio**            2005      40      9      7
Southtech            2001       20      3      2
Stalker              1991        6      0     1
SystroTech           2001       16      6     2
Synergi              1999       60     0      1
Synopsis             2004     405      0      1
TIB                  2002        6     0      5
Triada Studio        2002       12      2     0
Vested Dev.          2003       30     1      0
Viasphere            2001       47      2      0
Web, LLC             1996       40      0     1
Web Studio           1997        8     1      5
Websoft              2004       14     0      1
Xalt                 2001       19     0      7
Yerevan St. Univ.    1920     1200     0      2
YCRDI                1956     200      0      1
                             13720    101    134




                           33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable to this project.




                                     34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The EIF Board of Trustees, chaired by the Minister of Trade and Economic Development and
comprised of also representative of Ministry of Finance and Economy, assessed the EI project
implementation as highly satisfactory and meeting all the objectives put at the core of this
Learning and Innovation program. It provided unmatched help to the development and promotion
of the Armenian IT industry and received substantial awareness and support within the IT sector,
the Government, and the development community. The Project brought learning and innovation
business development mechanisms and instruments as well as best expertise to the Armenian IT
sector.

The Project created not only an advanced incubation model for the economy sector development
but also had a great impact on overall ICT sector development in Armenian. Armenian IT
companies and its employees, IT related students has greatly benefited from Project's various
business development and capacity upgrading services, educational projects, professional
seminars and roundtables. The Project, first time in Armenia, introduced venture funding and start
ups' development mechanisms in the country and succeeded in bringing foreign direct
investments to the country through initiation of global investment programs with international
corporations such as Sun Microsystems, Alcatel, Microsoft, HP and others.

Many of key performance indicators established under the Project showed surplus in respect to
performance targets monitored not only by the Bank and the Government but also by KPMG, the
independent monitoring agent.

RA National Assembly's Supervision Department that also monitored the Project performance
stated that the Project met its objectives. It made recommendations to the Government on further
steps to be undertaken for further development of Armenia IT sector in terms of increasing its
competitiveness through provision of business development services to enterprises, country
promotion and sales activities at the international markets, investment promotion and skills
development.

Overall, the Project was of particular importance for Armenia on the way of improvement its ICT
sector and creation of prerequisites for development of knowledge based economy and facilitation
of innovation activities in the country.




                                                 35

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


                                      Selected Documentation17

Project preparation and appraisal

    1. Republic of Armenia, Private Sector Development Policy Note (Undated but appears to
        be 1998).

    2. July 25, 1998, BTOR ­Notes on the Armenia Private Sector Development.

    3. May 27, 1999, BTOR--Armenia Private Sector Development Project (PSD):
        Identification Mission Back to Office Report (AM-SE44852).

    4. August 23-26, 1999, AM, Republic of Armenia Private Sector Development Strategy.18

    5. August 31, 2000, BTOR for FSD/PSD Supervision mission.

    6. Ben Shahar Associates, Feasibility Study of Technological Incubators in Armenia, Final
        Report, October 2000. (Consultant Report).

    7. Project Concept Document, Armenia Enterprise Incubator Project, March 6, 2001.

    8. Armenia Enterprise Incubator LIL (P044852)--PAD Review (ECSCS) Quality Team
        Comments, April 19, 2001.

    9. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Learning and Innovation Credit for an
        Enterprise Incubator ­LIL, November 27, 2001.

    10. Development Credit Agreement, December 28, 2001.




17Unless otherwise stated, the documents are in chronological order within each phase of the project cycle
and category.

18Date given is for the mission. The available copy of the report is undated. .




                                                   36

Project supervision

Project/Implementation Status Reports (PSRs/ISRs)

PSRs
No.                Date
1                  December 28, 2001
2                  June 28, 2002
3                  December 19, 2002
4                  June 23, 2003
5                  November 21, 2003.
6                  June 7, 2004
7                  December 14, 2004
ISRs
8                  April 16, 2005
9                  November 19, 2005
10                 May 25, 2006
11                 December 5, 2006


Aide Memoires (AM)/Back-to-Office Reports (BTORs)

   1. January 3, 2001, BTOR, Armenia PSD Mission for December 17-22, 2000.

   2. July 3, 2002, BTO-Supervision Mission (June 16-22, 2002).

   3. December 13, 2002, BTOR-Supervision Mission for Enterprise Incubator LIL (and
        project preparation mission for a Business Linkages Project).

   4. Undated, AM-Armenia-Enterprise Incubator LIL, Business Linkages Project (report for a
        mission from April 4 to 12, 2003).

   5. Undated, AM ­Enterprise Incubator LIL; Business Linkages Project (Competitiveness
        and Job Creation Project), for a mission of April 4-11, 2003.

   6.   October 27, 2003, BTOR/AM, Armenia Enterprise Incubator LIL (for a mission dated
        October 1-8, 2003).

   7. March 8, 2004, BTOR/AM for the Mid-Term Review (January 28 to February 7, 2004).

   8. Undated, BTOR/AM-Armenia Enterprise LIL (mission of September 11-21, 2005).

   9.   Undated, AM, Armenia Enterprise Incubator LIL (mission of December 3-13 2006)


Enterprise Incubator Foundation (EIF) Reports

   1. EIF, Guide to the Armenia IT Companies, April 2005.




                                               37

   2. EIF, Armenian Information Technology Sector, Software and Services: Report on the
        State of the Industry (2006).

   3. EIF, Enterprise Incubator Project (Summary of Cumulative Output and Outcome
        Indicators), May 2007.


Project Monitoring Consultant Reports

   1. KPMG Armenia, Enterprise Incubator Project, Monitoring of Enterprise Incubator
        Project's Performance Indicators--Recommendations on Project's Performance
        Indicators, Confidential), May 2005.

   2. KPMG Armenia, Enterprise Incubator Project, Performance Monitoring: Methodology
        and Description of Tools, May 2005.

   3. KPMG Armenia, Monitoring of EIP's Performance for Period 1 (01 December 2004-30
        June 2005), Confidential.

   4. KPMG Armenia, Monitoring of EIP's Performance for Period 2 (01 July 2005-31
        December 2005), Confidential.

   5. KPMG Armenia, Monitoring of EIP's Performance for Period 3 (01 January -30 June
        2006), Confidential.

   6. KPMG Armenia, Monitoring of EIP's Performance for Period 4 (01 July 2006 -31
        December 2006), Confidential.

Other Reports

   1. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6), Armenia Enterprise Incubator Project,
        November 10, 2004.

   2. IDA Results Measurement System, October 29, 2003.

   3. Financial Management for Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs), Guidelines to Staff,
        April 26, 2001.

   4. OPCS, Investment Lending, Learning and innovation Loan (LIL) ­Focus, use of loan
        proceeds, special design features, etc.




                                               38

Annex 9: Project Monitoring Framework and Actual Indicators compared to Targets



    KEY OUTPUT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BY OBJECTIVE AND OUTCOME


Objective: Providing demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable business
environment by accelerating business linkages with foreign companies

Project Outcome: a. Start-ups Created and Developed

Indicators

a.1: Number of start-ups created

Project Outcome: b. Business linkages Created

Indicators:

b.1 Number of EIF's foreign representatives

b.2 Number of events organized

b. 3 Number of publications


Project outcome: c. Improved business performance

Indicators:
c.1 Total number of agreements to provide consulting

Project outcome: d. Viable Incubation Facility Developed

Indicators:
d.3 Cumulative revenue received by EIF


Objective 2: Providing demonstration effect of Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) in
Information Technology (IT)-related manufacturing

Outcome: FDI in Supported Companies


Indicators:

e.1 Number of companies supported to obtain FDI

Objective 3: Piloting demand-driven mechanisms of continuous upgrading of IT skills among
IT professionals, students, enterprise managers, and employees

Outcome: f. Improved Technical and Managerial Competencies




                                               39

Indicators:

f.1 Number of managers and professionals who have participated in secondments

f.2 Number of training courses

f.7 Number of seminars/roundtables


f.9 Number of contests

f11 Number of participants in contests

Outcome: g. New Practices Introduced in Universities

Indicators:

g.1 Number of university-private sector projects realized




                                                 40

              KEY OUTCOME PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MONITORED
                                BY OBJECTIVE AND OUTCOME


Objective: Providing demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable business
environment by accelerating business linkages with foreign companies

Project Outcome: a. Start-ups Created and Developed

Indicators:

a.2 Number of sustained start-ups
a.3 Number of applications for start-up initiative
a. 4 Number of employees in start-up companies

Project Outcome: b. Business linkages Created

Indicators:
b.2 Number of targets by representatives
b.3 Number of leads

b.4 Number of export/outsourcing contracts
b.5 Number of investment initiatives with participation of foreign and local companies
b.6 Number of international and local events (trade fairs, conferences, forums, etc.)

b.8 Number of beneficiary organizations in events


Project outcome: c. Improved business performance

Indicators:
c.2 Dollar value of sales of beneficiaries received through opportunities created by EIF

Project outcome: d. Viable Incubation Facility Developed

Indicators:

d.1 Occupancy rate
d.2 Rental price per sq. m. in the MWS vs. the average in the market.

d.4 Share of positive feedback on rental and other services provided to the tenants of the MWS


Objective 2: Providing demonstration effect of Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) in
Information Technology (IT)-related manufacturing

Outcome: FDI in Supported Companies

Indicators:

e.2 Number of foreign investment projects initiated or realized
e.3 Total dollar value of foreign investment commitments




                                                   41

Objective 3: Piloting demand-driven mechanisms of continuous upgrading of IT skills among
IT professionals, students, enterprise managers, and employees

Outcome: f. Improved Technical and Managerial Competencies

Indicators:

f.2 Number of enterprises consulted

f.4 Number of training participants
f.5 Number of companies represented in training

f.6 Share of positive feed back on training received vs. total
f.8 Number of participants/beneficiaries of seminars and roundtables

f.10 Number of applications received for contests

Outcome g: New Practices Introduced in Universities

Indicators:

g.2 Number of students that benefited




                                                  42

ACCUMULATIVE TARGETS AND ACTUAL PERFORMANCES FOR ALL TWO
                                          YEARS


Output Key Performance Indicators


                         KPI                                 Target      Actual

                                                                         2 (or 3 if
a.1 Number of start-ups created                                3        Isomech is
                                                                        included)
b.1 Number of EIF's foreign representations/                                2
representatives                                                2


b.7 Number of events organized                                 3            7


b.9 Number of publications                                     8            11


c.1 Total number of agreements to provide consulting           56           92


d.3 Cumulative revenue received by EIF                       $54,000    $139,840


e.1 Number of companies supported to obtain FDI                17           18

f.1 Number of managers and professionals participated
in secondments                                                 10           11


f.3 Number of trainings                                        14           18


f.7 Number of seminars/ roundtables                            23           31


f.9 Number of contests                                         3            10


f.11 Number of participants in the contests                   >250         1058



g.1 Number of university-private sector projects realized      6            6




                                              43

Outcome Key Performance Indicators

                           KPI                                Target               Actual

                                                                                  2 (or 3 if
a.2 Number of sustained start-ups                                 3              Isomech is
                                                                                 included)


a.3 Number of applications for start-up initiative               30                  25

                                                                                 43 (or 50 if
a.4 Number of employees in start-up companies                    30              Isomech is
                                                                                 included)


b.2 Number of targets by representations                         60                 121


b.3 Number of leads                                              40                  79

b.4 Number of export/ outsourcing and partnership                                    20
contracts                                                        14

b.5 Number of investment initiatives with participation                              7
of foreign and local companies                                    6

b.6 Number of international and local events (trade                                  18
fairs, conferences, forums, etc.)                                11


b.8 Number of beneficiary organizations in events                61                 118

c.2 Dollar value of sales of beneficiaries received                            $307,800+($520
through opportunities created by EIF                          $300,000             ,000)*


d.1 Occupancy rate                                              90%                100%

d.2 Rental price per sq. m. in the MWS vs. the                                  105.3% of the

average in the market                                    Current market price    market rate


d.4 Share of positive feedback on rental and other
services provided to the tenants of MWS                         80%                100%


e.2 Number of foreign investment projects initiated or
realized                                                          4                  6


e.3 Total dollar value of foreign investment
commitments                                                   $1.8mln            $1.961mln


f.2 Number of consulted enterprises/organizations                99                 121

f.4 Number of training participants                              210                262




                                               44

                           KPI                                      Target                   Actual


f.5 Number of represented companies in trainings                       47                       92

f.6 Share of positive feedbacks on trainings received
vs. total                                                            80%                     90.7%

f.8 Number of participants /beneficiaries of seminars/
roundtables                                                           560                      706

f.10 Number of applications received for contests                    >500                     1438

g.2 Number of benefited students                                      400                      452


Indicators related to development/upgrading of EIF staff skills



                        Indicator                                   Target                  Actual

Training hours                                                         32                     60.1

Employee turnover                                                       4                       4


Budget spending and financing indicators



                        Indicator                                   Target                  Actual
Ratio of total Project costs to the external financing                                       21.3%
(average)                                                             21%

Planned spending versus existing Project budget
(min / max for all periods)                                      -20% / +20%            -17.3% / + 8%


* At Period 3 the target for this indicator was set as N/A and KPMG did not consider the
outsourcing projects reported by EIF and Canada representative for this period, namely, projects
$20,000 between Bi Line (Armenia) and INM (Canada) and contract of $500,000 between NaSoft
(Armenia) and LARS (Canada) although the contract copy was available at EIF.




                                                 45

