Report No. PID10229
Project Name                     Armenia-Enterprise Incubator LIL
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Small Scale Enterprise
Project ID                       AMPE44852
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Implementing Agency
Address TBD
Ministry of Finance of the Republic
of Armenia
1-Melik-Adamyan
Yerevan, 375101
Armenia
Contact Person: Bagrat Yengibaryan
Executive Director
Foreign Financing Projects
Management Center
Tel: +374 (1) 523-471
Fax: +374 (1) 151-736
Email: info@ffpmc.am
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 23, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 23, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 27, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
In the former Soviet Union, Armenia was recognized for its advanced work
in scientific fields, as Armenian scientists and engineers were among the
leaders in cutting edge research and development. Armenian nationals also
enjoy a worldwide reputation of professional excellence, entrepreneurial
spirit, initiative and inventiveness. The business success of the
Armenian Diaspora attests to this important observation. The unfriendly
business environment, compounded by an inadequate privatization program,
together with knowledge-based constraints have created a stagnation trap
in the economy. The Armenian economy is still comprised mainly of large
organizations (R&D institutions and industrial, agricultural and
agro-industrial enterprises) trapped in a low-level equilibrium which
lacks the demand driven momentum from strategic external investors or
sufficient creativity of incumbent owners/managers to spur demand through
effective marketing of innovative products. Poor implementation of the
1999 privatization program has contributed to this stagnation under which
less than 50 enterprises of the 210 intended to be privatized (under ROA
Decree #663), have been either sold or liquidated. This illustrates a
conspicuous lack of demand for inherited enterprises at any 'reasonable'
price.The unfriendly business environment in this relatively isolated and
land-locked economy makes Armenia even less inviting for initial
investors. The lack of entrepreneurship in such an economy produces too
little public pressure for reforming the business environment and this
perpetuates the stagnation.The pockets of vitality that have managed to



break through the stagnation are highly concentrated. About 1,000
employees in the Armenian diamond industry are currently responsible for
US$70 million in manufacturing exports (30w of total manufacturing exports
in 1999). Another thousand employees produce as much as US$18-20 million
in software exports. While the economic impact of these sectors on
overall living standards is modest, these examples provide the greatest
long-term opportunity for Armenia to develop high value added export
oriented clusters. The fact that growth disproportionately benefits
workers in a few relatively small sectors is not particularly surprising
and is well documented in post-import-substitution economies such as Latin
America. Moreover, such pockets of dynamism signal economic adjustment
according to the comparative advantage of the economy. A pronounced
increase in industrial duality e.g. emergence of high-wage, high
value-added segments amid the stagnant majority of industries, could thus
be positive and may trigger a new economic dynamics. The Armenia Growth
ESW indicates that developing the business linkages (managerial,
marketing, financial and information) from the growth segments of Armenian
economy through to the rest of the economy and to Western markets would
probably be the most effective ways to break through the stagnation. The
Government of Armenia is aware of this, yet it lacks experience in
devising the innovative institutional structures required to foster these
business linkages. This project aims to accelerate development of the
existing business linkages by facilitating appropriate conditions for
enterprise restructuring and the 'high road to competitiveness' through
support to the nascent IT cluster. Experience of other developing
countries shows that the software and IT industries can be rich sources
for job creation with relatively little capital investment.
2. Objectives
A number of interlocking institutional rigidities in labor market,
educational system and business environment are hindering the optimal
realization of Armenian human capital. The Enterprise Incubator
(Incubator) project is an entry point to start unlocking these rigidities
in the IT cluster - a tiny, yet very dynamic pocket of vitality in an
otherwise stagnant economy. The project will pilot innovative
private-public mechanisms for providing business development services to
nascent enterprises and continuous education and training to students and
professors. The project is expected to have a powerful demonstration
effect which would trigger reforms in other sectors of the economy.The
project has three specific monitorable objectives: n To provide
demonstration effect of company formation in an inhospitable business
environment - (Employment-creation/productivity objective)n To attract
FDI in IT-related manufacturing - (FDI objective)n To pilot demand-driven
mechanisms of continuous upgrading of IT skills of students, professors,
enterprise managers and employees - (Continuous skill upgrading
objective)
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
There are two contrasting approaches to the design of the enterprise
incubator project. One is to specify the desired delivery mechanisms in
every detail (e.g. curriculum for continuous education, the precise range
and pricing structure of business development services) and then make sure
- 2 -



the stakeholders comply with such detailed guidelines. The second
approach is to create the rules of the game encouraging creativity,
experimentation and accountability on the part of the incubator
management. To assure timely trouble-shooting and adjustment, one has to
assure a timely feedback between the Bank task manager on the one side and
the Incubator manager and governing body on the other. The project design
below emphasizes the second approach.l. Project components: (see Annex 2
for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)Component I: Managed Work Space - US$1.777 millionObjective: to
provide telecommunication infrastructure and office space for lease to all
interested IT companies - domestic and foreign, already operating or
start-ups.This component will finance physical rehabilitation and
refurbishment of the building and: (i) Local Area Networks (LAN) with
optical cable link to the Internet Service Provider (ISP) and related
communications hardware and software; (ii) hardware, software and services
related to distance learning center; (iii) two classrooms equipped with
approximately 18 computers and related teaching aids; (iv) computers,
cubicles and furniture for approx. 15-20 work spaces; (v) 80 workstations;
and (v) office equipment. This managed work space facility will offer
modern office environment with latest high speed telecommunication links
vital to IT and software companies. Through economies of scale, the
managed work space will be able to provide the local companies 2 MB
internet connection which is too costly for individual firms.The office
space will be offered to local companies that meet the criteria of: (i)
ownership - preferably local; (ii) size: small to medium; and (iii)
business preference: first preference to IT/software companies followed
by other high tech companies. The pre-selected companies will be offered
space on a first come first serve basis at a rental price in line with
market conditions and at a level to make the managed work space
self-sustaining at the end of the project implementation cycle. The
absence of rental subsidy on a on-going basis will obviate the need for
exit or graduation mechanism. It is anticipated that the managed work
space will provide a model for the local real estate market and similar
facilities will soon start to operate in the private sector before the
project cycle in complete.The Managed Work Space Component will have two
sub-components: Administration & Operations (AO); and Technical Support
(TS). At the initial project stage, AO will assure high standards for
building rehabilitation and procurement developed in accordance with the
technical requirements and in consultation with the TS specialists given
the nature of the project and necessity to accommodate high technology
equipment in the workspace. At the later stages, AO will provide
procurement, office maintenance and logistics support to all other
components of the Incubator on a central basis. AO will technically
process financial transactions related to the activities implemented by
all Enterprise Incubator components, liaising with the banks and other
financial structures as necessary, produce financial and asset control
reports. Therefore, it will allow the Project Management Component to
perform disbursement monitoring of AO, versus implementation by Business
Services Center and Skills Development components.TS sub-component will
incorporate a wide range of activities related to the technical
establishment, maintenance and administration of the LAN, the fiber-optics
cable and web activities both for the Enterprise Incubator and client
companies, as necessary. TS will have an advisory role in procurement
issues related to the acquisition of EDP and office equipment, and in
such other cases where technical expertise is required.Component II:
- 3 -



Business linkages services: Business Services Center -- US$3.107
millionObjective: to provide business development services to interested
clients, mostly locally owned software companies with usually poor
management and marketing skills.The Business Services Center shall become
instrumental in promoting Armenian IT industry to potential investors and
business partners. One of the main tasks will be the establishment of
business connections between local IT companies and foreign investors and
potential clients, as well as counseling of managers and leading
specialists of LITC in the areas of business proposals development and
human resources management.The Business Services Center will also manage
the Marshall Plan placement of managers and senior specialists of Armenian
owned software companies into similar IT companies and incubators in
already developed IT clusters in Europe, the US and Asia. This component
will assure continuation of the current market demand for IT skills and
will finance: (a) the costs of foreign consultants entrusted with skills
development of Business Services Center's staff to develop business plans
and build pipeline of orders for Incubator tenants; (b) operating costs
of the Business Services Center until such time that the Center is
self-sufficient; and (c) the costs of placement of company managers and
senior staff into countries/regions with export oriented IT
sectors.Component III: Skill development services: Skills Development
Facility -- US$1.636 millionObjective: to provide on-demand software
development training of various duration for Incubator tenants as well as
for any other interested client including university undergraduate and
graduate students. The primary role of the facility will be to create
Institution - Employer link models which would ensure a sustainable and
permanent supply of qualified technicians and managers for companies.
Another priority direction would be providing extensive knowledge support
to newly emerging business entities. Particular attention will be given to
companies or workgroups organized by the students. In order to meet the
objective stated above, the Skills Development Facility will operate in
close cooperation with major educational institutions in the country and
abroad.The Skills Development Facility will have three major groups of
clients: a) Students/postgraduates of technical and economy departments
of universities;b) Managers and top level technical staff of local IT
companies; andc) University professors and lecturers - trainers.The
classrooms of the Skills Development Facility will be available for lease
to clients (software companies) for specific in-house training.Finally,
the facility will organize and manage contests for small seed grants
program for university graduates to help them set up their companies.
This component will finance costs of short-term training courses, distance
education programs, compensation for lecturers, and management of the
small grants program.Component IV: IT Business Surveys - US$0.200
millionObjective: To bi-annually monitor regulatory environment for IT
cluster firms. This will be done to assure formation of constituencies
for reform of business environment and supply them with relevant
information. Survey of business environment will cover the following main
groups of indicators (full description of the survey methodology available
in project file):1) Business registration - cost (for all areas, cost
includes in time and formal and informal types of payments and
contributions, including bribes), procedures required, delays
encountered2) Business licensing - number and type required, cost, time
and payments required3) Obtaining business premises - procedure, costs,
constraints, delays4) Import and Export regulation, Customs - procedures,
costs, delays5) Product, input and equipment certification - types,
- 4 -



incidence, procedures, costs, delays6) Tax administration - requirements,
constraints, costs, number of taxes and forms7) Business inspections -
types (and agency responsible), costs, number, process followedComponent
V: Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU) - US$0.200
millionObjective: to assure overall management and continuous monitoring
of project's objectives, inputs, outputs and outcomes. This component will
provide administrative support to the Incubator units including:
preparation of Terms of Reference (TORs), selection of consultants/experts
when necessary, supervision of work progress and deliverables and
intermediation in cases of the conflict. It will provide legal support to
all components of the project as necessary and facilitate dialogue between
the Government and private sector (through the Project Steering Committee)
concerning necessary reform measures to facilitate companies adjustment to
markets. Under supervision of Executive Director, Foreign Financing
Projects Management Center of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the
Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit will be responsible for loan
accounting, disbursements, financial management reports and arranging
annual project audits, as well as supplying auditors with all documents
and reports necessary to perform auditor's tasks.
Managed Work Space (Private Sector Development)
Business linkages services: Business Services Center (Private Sector
Development)
Skill development services -- Skills Development Facility (Human Resource
Development)
IT Business Surveys (Private Sector Development)
Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU) (Institutional
Development)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       7.6
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  No significant environmental issues.   Minor
potential dust and noise associated with the physical rehabilitation and
refurbishment of the building in the Managed Work Space component but this
is expected to be of short duration, highly localized, and therefore
manageable.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Vladimir G. Kreacic
The World Bank
-5-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:5256 260
Kiev, Ukraine
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 27, 2001.
- 6 -



