Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3580 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Incubator Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 28, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3580 AM
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
Page  3
follows:
“(c)  Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“EI” means the Enterprise Incubator, a legal entity, established by the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 1165, dated November 27, 2001, which will be responsible for the 
implementation of the Project;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1 through 7 set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
 “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(d)
“Entrepreneurial Grants” means grants provided to students and entrepreneurs to 
start up their companies in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures agreed upon by the 
Association and set forth in the PIP;
(e)
“FMPM” means the Financial Management Procedures Manual prepared and 
adopted by the Borrower on July 21, 2001 and referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(f)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and EI pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) to this Agreement;
(g)
“MOFE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Borrower; 
(h)
“PIMU” means the Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit  established by 
the Borrower within the MOFE   for purposes of Project management;
(i)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the Project 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
Page  4
agreement of the Association;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR3,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
withdrawals made on account of Entrepreneurial Grants under Part C.1 of the Project.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
Page  5
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and 
August 1 commencing February 1, 2012 and ending August 1, 2041. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 1, 2021 shall be one  percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
Page  6
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
PIMU and EI, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, engineering, educational, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through PIMU 
and EI, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the EI under the 
Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the EI, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, including those set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the Implementation Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  7
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the PIMU and EI, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for 
and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through the PIMU and EI, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  8
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through PIMU and EI, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred 
to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 
2003, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
Page  9
additional events are specified:
(a)
the Borrower or EI shall have failed to perform any of their respective
obligations under the Implementation Agreement; and
(b)
the PIP or the FMPM shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived 
without the Association’s prior consent.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, the events specified in paragraph (a) and (b) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
EI; and
(b) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been 
appointed.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Page  10
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Cable address:
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Yerevan, 
Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
/s/  Karen Chshmaritian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/   Owaise Saadat
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  11
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit 
% of
Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
200,000
90%
(2)
Goods
310,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) 
and 85% of local expenditures 
for other items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
1,470,000
100%
(4)
Training and study tours
580,000
100%
(5)
Entrepreneurial Grants
80,000
100%
(6) Technical 
services
240,000
100% 
(7)
Operating costs including audits of:
(a) PIMU
160,000
100%
 
(b) EI 
620,000
100%  
(8)
Unallocated
240,000
TOTAL
3,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
Page  12
(c) 
the term “technical services” means expenditures for inputs such as internet 
access, website and date base development and maintenance, and related internet/technology 
promotions likely to be purchased under national competitive bidding or national shopping 
procurement methods; and
(d)
the term “operating costs of the PIMU and EI” means expenditures incurred by 
the PIMU and EI on account of Project implementation, including salaries of the staff of PIMU 
and EI, but excluding salaries of civil servants, and office equipment and supplies, utilities, 
operational and maintenance costs of the vehicles, office equipment and facilities, and small 
refurbishment costs, communications and internet fees, local travel, and audit costs, and such 
other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) 
expenditures in respect of Categories (1) and (5) until satisfactory evidence have been furnished 
to the Association that a financial management system for EI  has been established in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each; (c) services contracts for: (i) individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (ii) consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (d) technical services under contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000; (e) 
operating costs of the PIMU and EI; (f) training and study tours; and (g) Entrepreneurial Grants, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account 
in its Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment in the case of a commercial bank.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
Page  13
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the  
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  14
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the  
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
Page  15
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the  Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the  Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the  Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of  $750,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to pilot innovative private or public mechanisms for 
providing business development services to nascent enterprises and continuous education and 
training and in this regard by: (a) providing demonstration effect of company formation in an 
Page  16
inhospitable business environment by accelerating business linkages with foreign companies; (b) 
providing demonstration effect of foreign direct investment in information technology (IT) - 
related manufacturing; and (c) piloting demand-driven mechanisms of continuous upgrading of 
IT skills of IT professionals, students, enterprise managers and employees. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Managed Work Space
1.
Rehabilitation and refurbishment of a building to be used for providing 
telecommunication infrastructure and office space for lease to all interested information 
technology companies. 
2.
Provision of: (a) local area networks with optical cable link to the internet service 
providers; (b) hardware, software and services related to distance learning center; (c) equipment 
for two classrooms (computers and teaching aids);  (d) computers, cubicles and furniture for 
twenty work spaces; (e) workstations; and (f) related office equipment.
Part B
:
Business Services Center
1.
Provision of business development services to interested clients and placement of 
managers and business owners of Armenian software firms into relevant companies in Europe, 
Asia and the United States for training purposes and formation of business linkages.
2.
Public awareness campaign to potential clients for activities under the Project.
Part C
: 
Skills Development Facility
1.
Selection and carrying out of the Entrepreneurial Grants for students and entrepreneurs 
to start up their companies in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures agreed upon by 
the Association.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training for software development to Enterprise 
Incubator tenants and interested clients, including: (a) students/postgraduates of technical 
departments of public and private training establishments; (b) managers and top level technical 
staff of local IT companies; and (c) technicians/professionals with IT related background.
Part D
:
Information Technology Business Surveys
Preparation of a survey of the IT business environment, including analysis of: (i) 
business registration; (ii) business licensing; (iii) obtaining business premises; (iv) import and 
export regulation and customs procedures; (v) product, input and equipment certification; (vi) tax 
Page  17
administration and business inspections; and (vii) patent practices.
Part E:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and operating costs for the operation of the 
PIMU and EI including audits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
    SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:  General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost, respectively, $400,000 equivalent each and $100,000 equivalent or 
Page  18
more each. 
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent; (b) goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent; 
and (c) technical services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
Page  19
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured in accordance 
with international competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods and 
works procured in accordance with national competitive bidding procedures the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; (ii) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
national shopping, procedures the following procedures shall apply:
(A)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(C)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
 3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  20
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
  Services procured from consulting firms under Parts B, C and D of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for specialists and trainers under Parts B and C of the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  21
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants and, thereafter, for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.
 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. 
The Borrower shall assign the general responsibility for Project implementation to EI 
under the Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and EI under 
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Association and which shall 
include, inter alia, provisions whereby: (a) the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
available to EI in the form of a grant; (b) EI shall be required to implement the Project in 
accordance with the PIP, FMPM and the relevant  provisions of this Development Credit 
Agreement; and (c) EI through the PIMU shall be required as part of its responsibility for Project 
implementation: (i) to prepare and furnish to the Association, by June 30 in each year, for its 
review and concurrence, an annual work program for the Project; (ii) to ensure that goods, works 
and services are procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(iii) to make decisions on Project expenditures and costs (local and foreign); (iv) to carry out a 
semi-annual monitoring of regulatory environment for information technology cluster firms; and 
(v) prepare and finalize the terms of reference, selection of consultants and experts for the 
Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIMU until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it responsibility for 
coordination of the Project, including:
Page  22
(a)  
managing Project expenditures and costs, processing Credit disbursement 
applications and tracking disbursements of the Credit;
(b) 
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit;
(c)
management of the Special Account referred to in Schedule 1 to this  Agreement;
(d) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project, and arranging for the 
audit thereof;   
(e) 
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the Borrower 
and the Association, the first such report to be submitted not later than September 30, 2002; and
(f) 
ensuring compliance of the procurement procedures with the provisions referred 
to in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.  
3.
The Borrower, through PIMU and EI, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a mid term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
