Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13574
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2611-CO)
SEPTEMBER 30, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
AT-PAS      Asistencia Tecnica-Plan de Ajuste Sectorial
(Technical Assistance-Sector Adjustment Plan)
CGR         Contralorfa General de la Republica
(General Colombian Comptrollership)
DNP         Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Department)
FNH         Fondo Nacional Hospitalario
(National Hospital Fund)
GOC         Government of Colombia
ICBF        Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
(Colombian Institute of Family Wellbeing)
INS         Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
ISS         Instituto de Seguros Sociales
(Social Security Institute)
LA          Loan Agreement
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOH         Ministry of Health
PCR         Project Completion Report
PHC         Primary Health Care
PMU         Project Management Unit
PNR         Plan Nacional de Rehabilitaci6n
(National Rehabilitation Plan)
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SENA        Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Vocational Training Service)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                       September 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Health Services Integration Project (Loan 2611-CO!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Colombia - Health Services Integration Project
(Loan 2611-CO) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed to expand primary health care coverage, increase efficiency, and strengthen
sector management. Changes in Government water policy, a decision to decentralize health delivery,
and lack of implementation capacity resulted in reprogramming and substantially down-sizing the
project. The revised project focussed mainly on technical assistance to support the decentralization
program.
Implementation was fraught with difficulties, some stemming from internal security problems;
but in addition, both borrower and Bank performance was inadequate. While in the end some useful
assistance for the decentralization program in the form of local technical assistance and training was
provided, the project outcome was unsatisfactory and sustainability is unlikely.  Institutional
development was quite modest.
The PCR is of good quality. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMtPLETION REPORT
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
(Loan 2611-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pagye No,
PREFACE .................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....................  ii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                                    1
Project Identity ..........                                              I
Background                               .1
Sector Development Objectives .
Policy Context .
Linkages Between Project, Sector and
Macro Policy Objectives .2
Project Objectives and Description.                                     2
Project Objectives                         .2
Project Componentes                         .3
Project Design and Organization.                                        4
Project Implementation                        .5
Project Results .7
Project Sustainability                       .8
Bank Performance                            .8
Borrower Performance .........          ........................ 10
Project Relationship .................................. 11
Consulting Services ................................... 11
Project Documentation and Data ........................... 12
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                   ...... 12
EII.   PROJECT PROFILE AT TIME OF COMPLETION  ....                 .......... 19
ANNEX 1  - PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING AND/OR iTTERVIEWED   ...... 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
(Loan 2611-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health Services Integration Project
in Colombia, for which Loan 261 1-CO in the amount of US$36,500,000 was approved on July
30, 1985. The Government of Colombia (GOC) requested cancellation of sections of the loan
on three occasions for a total reduction of US$18.95 million. The closing date was postponed
to June 30, 1993, a twelve-month extension from the original closing date. Ninety-six (96.6)
percent of the rescheduled loan was disbursed and the last disbursement was on September 16,
1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Division of the Latin America
and Caribbean Regional Office, Department III (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower (Part II).
Part I is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan Agreement
(LA) and its amendments; supervision reports; a consultant's report on the completion of
physical facilities, and the Bank's correspondence files. Part II was prepared by the staff of the
Project Management Unit (PMU) before it was partially disbanded in July 1993, and officially
submitted by the GOC on November 16, 1993.






EVALUATION SUNIMARY
Project Objectives and Content
1.    This first health sector project in Colombia proposed to support sector development
through expanding Primary Health Care (PHC) coverage, increasing efficiency, and
strengthening sector management. The project objectives aimed at: (1) strengthening 19 of the
107 health regions through improved management, infrastructure, trained staff and greater
community participation in areas with minimal access; (2) expanding rural water supply; (3)
increasing service delivery efficiency through improved cooperation between the Social Security
Institute (ISS), the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Colombian Institute of Family Wellbeing
(ICBF), the National Institute of Health (INS) and other institutions; (4) improving the
maintenance of plant and equipment; (5) developing information systems to support planning and
control functions; (6) reinforcing the national laboratory network; and (7) conducting research
studies relevant to operational problem solving and policy issues. Changes in the government's
water policy, a mid-term evaluation in 1989, a new health law emphasizing decentralization,
and lack of implementation capacity, resulted in a reprogramming of activities in 1987, and a
downsizing of the project in 1990 and 1991. The 1990 reformulation of the project refocussed
the objectives to: (1) offer technical assistance to strengthen the administration capacity of the
health system in order to improve health service delivery, mainly in relation to the proposed
decentralization, institutional reorganization, and municipal autonomy established by Law 10 of
1990; (2) support the process of development through a plan of human resources training which
would provide national and international opportunities in specific knowledge areas, and through
the dissemination and training at the departmental and municipal levels to prepare them for the
introduction of the institutional reorganization of the sector; and (3) provide technical assistance
for small water supply projects through the Technical Assistance-Sector Adjustment Plan (AT-
PAS) of Loan 2916-CO (Water Supply and Sewerage).
Implementation Expenence
2.    The project encountered a time of extreme changes both in organization and policy in the
Borrower country and in the Bank. In Colombia, weak implementation capacity, delays in
obtaining counterpart funds, lack of adequate staffing at the start of the project, high turnover
of key personnel (12 Ministers of Health and seven Project Coordinators from preparation to
project completion), and problems of coordination affected, in some phases of project
implementation, the country's ability to execute activities. An overseer committee formed with
members of the National Planning Department (DNP), the MOH, the INS, the National Hospital
Fund (FNH), and the Bank Resident Mission met sporadically, with the purpose of exchanging
ideas about improvements in project execution, but with little effective results; over the years
it was dismantled. The project was not adopted by successive MOH personnel in its original
spirit or design; it was caught in a transition period of policy and institutional changes in the
health and water sectors; and failed to integrate itself into the MOH. The Bank, as well, was
undergoing an important reorganization (1987), with implications for personnel tumover,
incomplete files, and policy changes in project design, more oriented towards the prioritization



iii
of innovative responses to sector issues. All of the initial staff had left the project before the
second year of implementation was completed, resulting in certain lack of continuity. The
technical expertise to assist the country in problem solving, such as assistance in identified
auditing and accounting difficulties, was not always available during the transitional times and
for reasons of political turmoil in the country.
3.   In 1987 the Government of Colombia (GOC) was launching a special effort to address
socio-economic problems in the most disadvantaged regions of the country. These neglected
rural areas were targetted for assistance through two development programs--National
Rehabilitation Plan (PNR), and the Poverty Eradication Plan.  At the same time, the
Administration was implementing its newly adopted decentralization policies that have delegated
water sector responsibilities from the MOH to the Ministry of Public Works. Consequently, the
Government requested the Bank to redirect the funds of the project earmarked for the rural water
works to health care delivery activities in the PNR areas. The amendment to the Loan
Agreement (LA) of September 1987 enlarged the geographical coverage of the project from 19
Health Regions to 22 Departments; and the water works were included in a Water Sector Loan.
A mid-term evaluation carried out in 1989 which demonstrated difficulties in implementation,
and the passing of a new Health Law (Law 10 of 1990) emphasizing municipal instead of
regional responsibilities for health, brought about a request from the MOH and DNP to
reformulate the project, cuting down non-priority activities and focusing in technical assistance
to prepare the normative and procedural modifications of the system and the strengthening of
the managerial capacity for the implementation of Law 10; and earmarking an amount for the
preparation of a new project. As a result of the reformulation, cancellations of US$7.7 million,
US$4.75 million, and US$6.5 million took place in March 1990, July 1990, and August 1991
respectively. In total, US$18.95 million were cancelled, reducing the total project loan to
US$17.5 million. Also, in 1991 at the insistence of one Minister of Health, US$400,000 from
this loan were made available for technical assistance activities in the area of small water supply
and sewerage works managed by the Technical Assistance-Sector Adjustment Plan (AT-PAS)
project (Loan 2916-CO).
4.    The FNH was in charge of the procurement of medical equipment for the national
laboratory network, financed by the loan, as well as of the procurement of medical equipment,
vehicles, computers and software, and equipment for basic environmental services to be financed
by export credits. Despite a strong effort from the Bank to help in the preparation of bidding
documents, delays of up to four years occurred before the bidding process was started. This,
coupled with cumbersome public sector procedures for the approval of contracts, resulted in
delays in the reception and installation of the equipment, cancellation of the orders for vehicles
due to price increases and the closing of the project, and complaints of the MOH that the
computers ordered with specifications prepared in 1987 were obsolete when received in 1993.
5.    The FNH was also responsible for the execution of civil works for the component
Attention to People, and the INS was in charge of the civil works for the component Attention
to the Environment. The latter legally ceased to execute activities in January 1989, and the
unfinished works were cancelled during the reformulation of the project. The FNH performed



iv
a very weak supervision of the works, allegedly because of lack of staff, and despite the
availability of funds from the loan for hiring consultants. The MOH sent counterpart funds to
the regions, sometimes without a clear indication of its specific use. In some regions, the money
was simply kept in their bank because of lack of implementation capacity; and the supervision
reports prepared by the Regional Coordinators, and the accounting books of the regions did not
match. It is clear that flows of funds were not well defined in the project design. Extremely
limited budget allocations continues to hinder the maintenance of infrastructure and equipment.
The Government's perception that the creation of maintenance workshops for hospitals has not
been effectively implemented resulted in the discontinuation of the National Vocational Training
Service (SENA) involvement in training maintenance technicians in the early years of project
implementation.  Successive qualified opinions in audit reports failed to be taken into
consideration by the Borrower until the last years of project implementation. However,
corrective measures were taken after pressure from the Bank and at the initiative of the last
project coordinator.
Project Results
6.    The initial, ambitious objectives were partially effected, especially civil works for PHC
with the construction of 14 new health centers and 77 new health posts. Fifteen regional and
34 local hospitals, and eight maintenance workshops were remodelled, with 36 health centers
and 55 health posts upgraded. In total, civil works for service delivery were completed in 86%
for new and 53% for remodelled establishments, notwithstanding the difficulties posed for
implementation and monitoring by the security situation. The public health laboratories at the
regional and departmental levels were re-equipped. During the first five years of the project,
the upgrading of skills of 5,617 persons in PHC areas was realized with an additional 4,000
community leaders having participated in the training exercises oriented towards stimulating
community participation in health. Technical assistance and research supported by the project
paved the way for the elaboration of the new law. This legislation revolutionized the health
sector in Colombia by decentralizing the responsibility for the operation of health services
delivery to the municipal authorities. Approximately 10,000 persons were trained during project
implementation and 150 meetings were held at municipal and departmental levels to sensitize
personnel for the application of the new Health Law. Development of regulations for the new
law, and the strengthening of hospital management through technical assistance from universities,
as well as the preparation of the Municipal Health Services Project approved on June 8, 1993
(Ln 3615-CO) were supported by the loan. The training activities and the technical assistance
provided in the last years of the project facilitated a strengthening of the local level and their
preparedness for assumption of responsibilities under the municipalization of health. There were
severe limitations posed for both national and Bank supervision when certain regions of the
project were inaccessible due to security problems. Supervision from the Bank was limited by
travel regulations. The project closed after a 12 month extension, having disbursed 46.3% of
the original loan, or 96.6% after restructuring it.



V
Project Sustainability
7.    This project was instrumental in supporting the process of providing the legal framework
for restructuring health care services in Colombia, and as such becomes part of a long-term
strategy. Its ambitious design was appropriately scaled down to make it more manageable and
to respond to the new policy framework. The intended institutional building capacity at the
central level did not materialize as expected due to the high turnover of Ministers during the life
of the project which impeded a positive integration of the project into the MOH, and the lack
of clarity in the initial design on the nature of each component. Technical assistance and
training efforts were beneficial to advance the decentralization of health services and the
readiness of the participants to assume their roles in the restructured system.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.    The major lessons learned during project implementation which are common to the Bank
and the Borrower are summarized as follows:
(a) Project design should not be overambitious. Furthermore, should a loan need to be
adapted to changing circumstances in the policy and institutional setting of the sector,
flexibility in reformulating project design and implementation arrangements to
accomodate the new reality should be the answer.
(b) Implementation agencies should be kept to a minimum to facilitate clarity of
responsibilities. Greater attention should be paid to institutional arrangements for project
implementation, especially if the project is broad-based in scope.
(c) Detailed implementation plans should be defined in a Project Implementation Manual,
including detailed terms of reference for all technical assistance and training activities;
and working drawings for civil works. This would guide project implementation,
counteract personnel turnover, and facilitate availability of counterpart funds.
(d) Auditing responsibilities solely in the hands of the General Colombian
Comptrollership (CGR), tend to be slow in completion, and subject to intra-agency
conflicts and political interference. Private auditing, could facilitate timely submission
of reports.
In addition, lessons of particular interest to the Borrower are as follows:
(a) Ownership and continuity could be increased by assuring participation of MOH
operational level personnel during preparation, appraisal, and implementation stages of
the project. Also, mechanisms which would allow the strengthening of existing capacity
within the system should be introduced to sustain the planned development.



vi
(b) Enlarging the geographical area of the project with evidenced management problems
should be weighed against the political importance given these areas.
Additional lessons learned for the Bank are as follows:
(a) Difficulties with coordination of supervision activities between sectoral divisions in
the Bank fosters confusion at the managerial level in the country.
(b) When security problems force the use of alternative supervision mechanisms, the
interaction with the Borrower suffers.






COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
(Loan 2611-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Pro2ject Identity
Project Name:     Health Services Integration Project
Loan Number:      2611-CO
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
Country Department m
Country:          Colombia
Sector:           Health
Subsector:        Primary Health Care Services
2. Background
2.01  Sector Development Objectives. (at time of project appraisal). In 1985, the Government
of Colombia (GOC) had assumed various initiatives to increase Primary Health Care (PHC)
coverage and improve child and infant health and nutrition, environmental conditions, and reduce
high mortality and morbidity. The GOC's demonstrated concern for increasing coverage, and
effectiveness, accompanied by the development of efficient management practices was reflected
in the Health Plan of 1983-86. Several previous Bank loans in Nutrition and Rural Development
had supported infrastructure development at the PHC level. To support the extension of these
goals, this project was formulated to develop a comprehensive approach to improving sector
efficiency and to strengthen management while extending access to services to those most in
need.
2.02 Policy Context. In 1982, the GOC selected the Pacific Coast and border areas as priority
zones for accelerated multisectorial economic and social development. The World Bank's Health
Sector Review (Report No.4141-CO) of 1982, with which the GOC concurred, identified equity,
efficiency and effectiveness in health care delivery as salient issues.  A 1984 presidential
commission had created a technical committee for coordination between the Social Security
Institute (ISS) and the Ministry of Health (MOH) identifying geographical areas for
implementation. The National Institute of Health (INS) and MOH had, in 1984, clear
responsibilities for water and sanitation services in the rural areas, and the National Hospital
Fund (FNH), as the procurement arm of the MOH, was to be strengthened to assume fiscal



2
management responsibilities in addition to those of hospital maintenance and equipment. While
decentralization of health services was discussed, the creation of regional bodies, mentioned in
the 1983-86 Health Plan was not yet implemented, and decisions continued to be centralized.
2.03  Linkages Between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Objectives. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the National Planning Department (DNP), the ISS, the MOH, through its service and
human resources representatives and its semi-autonomous institutions, and even members of
Parliament, all participated actively in the design phase of the project. As identified above, the
structure for implementing an integrated approach in PHC for targeted priority populations was
in place. Colombia was experiencing, however, a time of great transition in the organization
and orientation of the government.  Decentralization of state responsibilities was being
developed, the drafting of the new Colombian constitution was in progress, and change was a
constant. For example, in the health sector, the passage of the decentralization law (Law 10 of
1990), facilitated by information from studies supported by this project, also clearly
demonstrated the need to reorient some activities originally included in the project design.
Additional modifications became necessary due to reorganizational efforts which separated water
and environmental concems from the MOH.
3. Project Objectives and Description'
3.01  Project Objectives. (1) strengthen 19 of the 107 health regions through improved
management, infrastructure, trained staff and greater community participation in areas with
minimal access to PHC; (2) expand rural water supply; (3) increase service delivery efficiency
through improved cooperation between ISS, MOH, INS, the Colombian Institute of Family
Wellbeing (ICBF), the National Vocational Training Service (SENA), and others; (4) improve
the maintenance of plant and equipment; (5) develop information systems to support planning
and control functions; (6) reinforce the national laboratory network; and (7) conduct research
studies relevant to operational problem solving and policy issues. These objectives were to
change several times during the life of the project. The first amendment to the LA of September
1987 responded to changes in the mandate of the MOH and INS for rural water supply, which
was transferred to the Ministry of Works, and to the GOC's interest in supporting the zones
included in the National Rehabilitation Plan (PNR), designed to address socio-economic
problems in the most disadvantaged regions of the country. As a consequence, the GOC's
requested to expand the scope of the project to 22 departments. The project was restructured,
with the funds previously allocated to rural water works being redistributed to the newly
incorporated regions for civil works and training for health. After a mid-term evaluation
(September 1989) which demonstrated difficulties in implementation, and the passing of a new
Health Law (Law 10 of 1990) emphasizing municipal instead of regional responsibilities for
health services delivery, the GOC requested cancellations of US$7.7 million in March 1990 and
I The statement of the objectives and components in the original project documents (Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) and Loan Agreement (LA) vary somewhat, although the scope remains
the same. Those included have been chosen to illustrate the complex elements of the project.



3
US$4.75 million in July 1990. The project was reduced again with an additional cancellation
of US$6.5 million in August 1991. Reorientation of the project focussed on providing technical
assistance and training during a transitional period while preparation of a new project, more in
line with the new country policies and goals in health funded by the loan was underway. The
revised objectives of the revision were to: (1) offer technical assistance to the Health Care
System to strengthen its capacity for the delivery of health services and in relation to the
proposed decentralization, institutional reorganization, functional integrity and municipal
autonomy as established by the new law; (2) support the process of development through a plan
of training human resources which would provide national and international opportunities in
specific knowledge areas and in dissemination and training for institutional reorganization in the
sector; and (3) provide technical assistance for small water supply projects through the Technical
Assistance-Sector Adjustment Plan (AT-PAS) of Loan 2916-CO. The arrangement with the AT-
PAS program was in the interest of maintaining consistency within Bank loans to the GOC in
matters of rural water projects.
3.02 Project Components. The project had four components: (1) the organization and delivery
of low-cost basic health care services; (2) the organization and delivery of basic environmental
health services; (3) strengthening the capacity of the INS laboratory network and (4) institutional
development. Within the first component the following were considered: (a) construction and
equipping of three local hospitals, seven health centers, and 53 health posts; remodelling and
upgrading of eight regional hospitals, 29 local hospitals, 27 health centers, and 53 health posts;
(b) strengthening the maintenance capacity of regional and local hospitals by remodeling and
upgrading 19 maintenance workshops, and training maintenance technicians; (c) carrying out
training programs for professional staff including, inter alias (i) management training for regional
managers, physicians and supervisors, (ii) upgrading of professional skills, mainly at the
auxiliary nurse and health promotor levels, and (iii) in-service training for other health workers;
and (d) acquisition of vehicles for utilization in health care services delivery and supervision.
The second component contemplated: (a) installation, expansion or rehabilitation of piped water
supply systems and school sanitary units in about 250 rural communities, including acquisition
of equipment; (b) a program to strengthen INS capabilities for implementing the basic rural
sanitation program, including technical assistance, training of INS personnel, and acquisition and
utilization of vehicles and equipment; (c) developing a national rural water supply development
plan; (d) acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment for supervision and vector control;
and (e) training programs for sanitary engineers and sanitation promoters. The third component
proposed to: (a) carry out training programs for operational and maintenance personnel of INS
laboratories; (b) prepare and adopt preventive maintenance manuals; and (c) acquire and utilize
laboratory equipment for the INS central laboratory and the MOH's sectional and regional
laboratories in the project area. The fourth component, institutional development, focussed on
strengthening the capabilities of the health sector institutions by: (a) developing planning and
control systems (strategic, management, financial control, cost containment, monitoring and
evaluation); (b) improving the quality of information supporting decision making by: (i)
reviewing and revising the information systems network, (ii) carrying out training programs for
data input operators, programmers and systems analysts, and (iii) acquisition and utilization of
equipment for MOH at the national level and its sectional and regional levels in the project area;



4
(c) carrying out training programs for health sector institution's personnel in the project area and
in about six other regional health units; (d) carrying out studies as required to foster the
objectives of the project; and (e) operating a unit assisting the MOH's Secretary General in the
management of the project. During the project lifetime, changes were made which affected all
of the components. The civil works were increased to support the PNR zones, anticipating the
additional construction of one regional and two local hospitals, eight health centers, and 36
health posts. In the remodeling and upgrading aspects, 11 regional hospitals, 31 local hospitals,
38 health centers, and 71 health posts were added. Maintenance workshops were incorporated
into the remodeled or newly constructed regional hospitals. The aspects related to INS rural
water supply, training of sanitary engineers and technicians and the INS central laboratory were
deleted, although the MOH's sectional and regional laboratories were retained. Eventually, with
the restructuring of 1991, the project evolved into the provision of technical assistance and
training for a transitional period.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01  As can be identified from the variety of objectives, number of participating agencies, and
different levels of implementation activities (national, regional, departmental, and local), the
project envisioned a complete, integral system, consistent with Colombian policy and the World
Health Organization recommendations emanating from the "Health for All by the Year 2000"
declaration of which Colombia was a signatory. The design followed this framework, proposed
to concentrate on some of the lesser developed areas, increase equity in health and achieve these
goals through a collaborative process among different providers. As such, it provided an
attractive and innovative alternative to existing inequity and fragmentation, albeit within a model
which tended to rely on the more centrally oriented decision making in place at the time.
4.02 The MOH had assembled a highly motivated and competent team for project
development. It is doubtful, however, that they were experienced in the fiscal management of
such an investment plan, nor were they or the Bank able to estimate with accuracy the demands
that such an ambitious program would place on an already inefficient system. They did provide
detailed information on each of the participating departments including health care delivery,
community services, population information, sanitation and infrastructure needs, all complete
with computer models. Other agencies, already mentioned, participated in the design, although
in retrospect, it is possible that the full magnitude and scope of the implications for local
deployment of resources- personnel, financial, and material- may not have been understood due
to a lack of a detailed implementation plan with specific roles and responsibilities for each. For
instance, the role of ICBF was unclear from the SAR; consequently it is not mentioned in the
LA. GOC changes and the high rate of turnover of key persons responsible for project activities
(12 Ministers of Health and seven Project Coordinators) left the project without a core group
which had participated in and understood its purpose. This was particularly damaging at the
critical start-up phase.
4.03 Although the Health Sector Review Report of 1982 and the preparatory work recognized
management and human resources areas as weaknesses, project design did not take into



5
consideration this fact and was overly ambitious. When the expansion of project areas was
required to include those judged as priorities in the PNR, a project difficult to implement,
became even more so. The Bank, however, accepted the proposed amendment. Not only did
the geographical scope and the number of civil works increase, but the number of departments
involved, each with its own priorities and autonomous civil governments with which to deal
during project implementation increased.   Whereas originally nine departmental level
governments had been involved, the number became 22. Because of the decentralization brought
about by Law 10 of 1990, at the end of the project, 105 separate entities, not all at the same
level, were involved. An additional factor which was to hamper efforts was the consideration
of Colombia as a more homogeneously functioning country than it was. Overconfidence in the
quality of human resources available for local implementation resulted in the absence of critical
management support provisions, especially at regional and operative levels. The project's focus
on underprivileged areas required additional resources, strategies, incentives and other inputs
to stimulate development at the local levels which were not included, perhaps because the design
was developed basically on a conceptual basis by national consultants and central level
functionaries, without extensive discussion with the implementation level personnel as to
feasibility of implementation.
4.04 The SAR identified the risks inherent in the need for cooperation between several
agencies that provide health, population and nutrition services, water supply, construction
services, and equipment maintenance. This risk was meant to be minimized through the
strengthening of the regional management capacity, through technical cooperation by more
developed to less developed health regions and by interagency cooperation agreements. The
project area was divided into five regions headed by zonal coordinators, each in charge of a
manageable number of departments, to assist in the interagency coordination and day to day
decisions. They were dismissed after the reformulation of the project in 1991. Detailed
monitoring and evaluation criteria were not available at appraisal for the components, even
though their absence had been noted and their elaboration requested.
5. Project Implementation
5.01 The project was downsized from an initial US$36.5 million to US$17.5 million; 96.6%
of the lower amount was disbursed. A start-up setback of four months was experienced due to
delays of the GOC in meeting conditions of effectiveness (setting up project accounts and signing
agreements among implementing agencies). The initial design called for an implementation
period of six years with an additional 12 months for loan closing. The GOC requested a six-
month extension of the closing date, which was amended to one year by Bank recommendation
and mutual consent in order to facilitate full disbursement for commitments entered into during
fiscal year 1991 and technical assistance activities taking place in calendar years 1992/93 (mainly
the preparation of a new project).
5.02  The FNH was in charge of the procurement of medical equipment for the national
laboratory network, financed by the loan, as well as of the procurement of medical equipment,
vehicles, computers and software, and equipment for basic environmental services to be financed



6
by export credits. Despite a strong effort from the Bank to help in the preparation of bidding
documents, FNH's insistence on continuing with previously established work patterns caused a
four-year delay before the bidding process was started. This, coupled with cumbersome public
sector procedures for the approval of contracts, resulted in delays in the reception and
installation of the equipment, and cancellation of the orders for vehicles due to price increases
and the closing of the project. It also resulted in procurement of items that were considered
obsolete by the time of reception. For example, computers to be bought with export credit
funds, were contracted in 1990 with 1987 specifications, and delivered in 1993.
5.03 The FNH was also responsible for the execution of civil works for the component
Attention to People, while the INS was responsible for the civil works of the component
Attention to the Environment. INS legally ceased to execute these activities in January 1989,
and the unfinished works were cancelled during the reformulation of the project. The FNH
perforned a very weak supervision of the works, allegedly because of lack of personnel and
counterpart funds. The MOH advanced own resources to the regions, sometimes without a clear
indication of the purpose; and some regions just kept the money in their bank because of lack
of implementation capacity. In some cases, moneys were used for purposes different from the
project, but the facts were detected by the auditors and reported in qualified opinions in the audit
reports. The Regional Coordinators, however, failed to follow-up on the matter. In later years,
and after pressure from the Bank and the initiative of a new Project Coordinator, corrective
measures were introduced. Supervision of civil works by Bank staff was made difficult by
security issues due to political unrest and drug trafficking activities. Institutionalization of
maintenance as a routine activity through FNH was limited, principally due to insufficient
national budget allocations, leaving this necessary activity deficient, and investments unprotected.
The hability to organize the reception of goods with the finalization of construction work was
not always good, and the result is that some equipment bought with project funds was unable
to be installed due to lack of infrastructure, technical capacity of personnel, or training available
on its use. The training of maintenance technicians by SENA was phased out once the project
was reformulated in 1990.
5.04  Although the initial project design included strategies to address the perceived risks, the
proposed actions were insufficient. The magnitude of managing the different components, each
of which could have been developed as a separate project, and the efforts required to consolidate
the different entities in cooperative actions, proved to be unsurmountable, given the political
context of decisions within the country. The non-compliance of GOC to follow through on
commitments, such as the timely availability of counterpart funds, added to the bureaucratic
delays. The flows of funds were not well defined in the project design. Complicated approval
procedures internal to the govemment also impeded progress. The physical isolation of the
PMU offices, intemal differences among participating agencies and the lack of integration of the
project into the MOH structure gave rise to claims of a parallel organization, competitive with
the MOH. Management from the PMU was made difficult since many of the implementing
agencies made their own technical judgments, and the project activities did not appear to be seen
as integral to their overall plan by rotating decision makers. The reliance on consultants rather
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  -------



7
than line personnel to staff the PMU left them without the necessary weight within the system
to negotiate these difficulties.
5.05  The recommendations resultant from the mid-term evaluation (1989) stipulated in the LA,
Section 3.01 (j), established clearly the need to restructure the project, which was supported by
the GOC and Bank staff and was followed by three different cancellation requests and a
reorientation of activities. These modifications to the LA accompanied the changes in the health
sector and reflected Bank practice of scaling down those components poorly managed or no
longer considered a priority. Following the last reformulation in 1991, the project focussed on
a well-defined set of tasks. Only when the project focussed on managerial training at hospital
levels and deployed heavy technical assistance to the regions at the level of the municipalities
to strengthen their capabilities to manage and deliver health care services, it attained clearly its
objectives.
6. Project Results
6.01  In spite of difficulties, the following results have been important. The studies completed
in 1988/89 contributed useful information for the development of Law 10, the municipalization
of health services, which provides a new structure for the delivery of health care services in
Colombia. The studies were organized in three groups: (1) financing, social security, and
nutrition; (2) diagnosis of the health sector, infrastructure, and basic health; and (3) research,
human resources, and decision-making processes. They were published in two volumes and
made available to the public. During the first five years of the project, the upgrading of skills
of 5,617 persons in the PHC areas was provided, with an additional 4,000 community leaders
having participated in training exercises oriented towards stimulating community participation
in health. During the latter years, 150 events were sponsored to encourage dialogue, questions
and preparation for the implementation of the new health law. These training activities and the
technical assistance provided in the last several years of the project facilitated a strengthening
of the local level and their preparedness for assumption of responsibilities under the
municipalization of health. With respect to the strengthening of hospital management, five
nucleus composed of universities, health services and university hospitals were created in the
Costa, Antioquia, Bogota, Valle and Santander regions, each one under the supervision of a
manager. Each nucleus contained an average of 8-10 hospitals. Technical assistance was
provided to them through three universities. National and international scholarships on a variety
of subjects took place in the latter years of project implementation.
6.02   Of the 110 new constructions and 268 remodelling or upgrading works planned in the
amended project, 95 (86%) of the new and 140 (53%) of the remodelled were completed. Of
the remodelling group, only 44% of the health posts were completed, while 57% of local
hospitals, and 55% and 79% of health centers and regional hospitals were completed, appearing
to demonstrate a bias towards new construction and larger civil works (see Part HI, Tables 7 and
8). The regional and departmental laboratory network was re-equipped, including physical
upgrading in one case. Eight maintenance workshops were remodelled. Very few vehicles were
bought at the beginning of project implementation for health services delivery and civil works



8
supervision.  The larger order to be procured with export credits was cancelled due to
bureaucratic delays in contract signing and price increases. Rural water supply and environment
were supported by technical assistance channelled through the AT-PAS program (Ln 2916-CO).
Support was provided for the preparation of the Municipal Health Services Project (Ln 3615-
CO). The strengthening of the MOH's existing central level capacity was quite limited, due to
the many changes in structure and personnel as well as the lack of integration of the project into
MOH.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01 The initial project design proved difficult to implement and therefore was redimensioned
to make it more manageable and to respond to the new policy framework. Institutional-building
capacity was not achieved in any of the project areas as envisioned under the original design,
partially due to excessive changes in the MOH structure of responsibilities for health care
delivery, the failure of the original regional authorities to become part of the system, personnel
turnover, lack of management involvement of local level personnel, lack of clarity in the initial
design on the nature of each component, and heavy reliance on consultants. Technical assistance
and training efforts were beneficial to advance the decentralization of health services and the
readiness of the participants to assume their roles in the restructured system.
8. Bank Performance
8.01 An over optimism would seem to have prevailed at the time of design due to the presence
of a highly competent national team and the knowledge of resources generally available in the
country. This however did not reflect the situation in the local implementation areas, leading
to serious implementation problems. For a first project in the sector, the inclusion of numerous
agencies, complex financing and local disbursement schemes with cost recovery, community
participation, and suppliers credits, may have been inappropriate or too ambitious. The
enormity of the management of so many participating agencies was not fully appreciated, neither
by the local authorities nor by the Bank. Within the Bank, differences of opinion between the
different divisions responsible for health and water supply as to the advisability of including the
rural water supply component in a health project resulted in extensive discussions, and joint
supervision materialized only once, with decreasing priority being given to this component.
8.02 Lack of a detailed implementation plan and working drawings for civil works caused
delays and confusion in some activities, especially since institutional memory was a problem due
to staff tumover.  At appraisal, progress indicators were established for the majority of
components. It was not possible to ascertain that these were ever used as monitoring criteria,
either in Colombia or within the Bank. The turnover of local personnel proved to be very
demanding on Bank staff time, as correspondence on procedures had to be restarted frequently.
The review of bidding documents took over two years due to the Borrower's reluctance to adopt
the standard bidding documents of the Bank, and the whole bidding process took four years.
It had proven difficult to counteract individual requests for hiring consultants when the
information submitted to the Bank was not reflecting actual capacity of the incumbent. After



9
the reformulation of the project, annual reviews of programmed activities were introduced to
monitor the scope of work, taking into consideration the weak implementation capacity
demonstrated in the early years of project execution. Security questions posed great difficulties
for project supervision, as Bank regulations often limited travel to the provinces. As an
altemative, in the beginning of the project, the zonal coordinators were brought to BogotA for
discussion; therefore, only secondary information was available on the participating departments.
This aspect also influenced the availability of consultants to assist in the supervision activities,
especially in the civil works area.  Reliance on in-country supervision by the regional
coordinators was used for some of the civil works and health care activities, but even they were
unable to visit some places. In June 1993, a consultant architect visited Colombia to review the
civil works component on a random basis to provide information for the PCR. In the last phase
of implementation, almost all the activities were supervised through reports and discussions in
Washington, during visits by Government officials involved in the preparation of the Municipal
Health Services Project, which included the Project Coordinator.
8.03  Several audit reports demonstrated irregularities in project implementation, and there is
documentation for project monies being used for activities not contemplated by the LA.
Corrective action, however, was limited to deadline extensions or threats to interrupt acceptance
by the Bank of disbursement requests based on statement of expenditures. In this respect, the
Bank was slow to respond to identified difficulties. For example, in 1991, after three years
without country contact by the Principal Financial Management Specialist of the Technical
Department, and several qualified audit reports, his first visit was for only five days to discuss
with the Comptroller General of the Republic four different Bank projects with identified
difficulties. No feedback was given, nor meetings held, with the corresponding MOH entities.
Intra-divisional recommendations from that report for a Colombian portfolio review appear to
have been delayed.2 In 1992, after repeated problematic CGR reports, a promised visit from
the Principal Financial Analyst never materialized.
8.04 The lessons learned for the Bank are as follows:
(a) Project design should not be overambitious. Under changing circumstances in the
policy and institutional setting of the sector, flexibility to redirect the project to
accomodate the new reality should be adopted.
(b) Implementation agencies should be kept to a minimum to facilitate clarity of
responsibilities. Greater attention should be paid to institutional arrangements for project
implementation, especially if the project is broad-based in scope.
2 At the time of the preparation of this report, a new draft document, Suggested Plan of
Action for the Improvement of Implementation of Bank Funded Projects in Colombia is under
review.



10
(c) Detailed implementation plans should be defined in a Project Implementation Manual,
including detailed terms of reference for all technical assistance and training activities;
and working drawings for civil works.
(d) Difficulties with coordination of supervision activities between sectoral divisions in
the Bank fosters confusion at the managerial level in the country.
(e) Auditing mechanisms other than CGR should be considered to meet the deadlines for
submission of audit reports. The Bank should have used its rights to request audit
reports from other independent auditors in order to meet deadlines. Also, clearer
guidelines for Bank staff about the follow-up on audits with qualified opinions should be
established.
(f) When security problems force the use of alternative supervision mechanisms, the
interaction with the Borrower suffers.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01  Although an apparently highly skilled and motivated team participated in the preparation
process, this project was plagued with difficulties from the beginning. There were start-up
delays and implementation proved problematic. Failure to develop management, financial, and
procedural aspects to meet deadlines, the complex co-financing required for procurement,
frequent turnover of key policy and implementation personnel, bureaucratic delays, lack of
willingness or resources on the part of involved parties to participate in, or authorize activities,
limited management capacity, confusion in interpretation of project components, and staffing
deficits, all appeared early in the process. Cumbersome public sector procedures resulted in
delays in the signing of contracts; and resultant cost increases at purchase time caused
cancellation of orders. Lack of timely counterpart funds was a serious problem, either because
they had not been considered in the MOH budget, or due to complicated approval procedures
which could take up to six months. Failure by the Bank to enforce its rights, permitted that
audit reports be performed by the CGR which created delays in the submission of reports to the
Bank, and opportunities for the project to become a pawn in political battles.
9.02 The MOH delegated management responsibilities to the PMU, while reporting to the
Secretary General and the Minister of Health. The result was a lack of integration of project
activities in the MOH that gave rise to claims of a parallel organization. The intersectoral
committee which was to exercise overseer responsibilities met on an irregular basis, and did not
influence project activities or organization. Supervision of some aspects, like civil works, was
very weak, despite the availability of funds from the loan to hire consultants for that purpose due
to the non-availability of FNH personnel. Programming and reporting was made on a haphazard
basis in the early years of project implementation, and improved in later years. National
consultants were used extensively, mainly to provide technical assistance in the implementation
of the new health law and for the improvement of hospital management. Although this did



I1
contribute to the strengthening of local capabilities, it did not promote the development of
increased technical competency within the MOH's central level.
9.04  The lessons for the Borrower are as follows:
(a) Project design should not be overambitious. When77 changes in the policy and
institutional setting of the sector so requires, a reformulation of the project becomes
necessary to focus on the new priorities.
(b) Implementation agencies should be kept to a minimum to facilitate clarity of
responsibilities.
(c) Ownership and continuity could be increased by assuring participation of MOH
operational level personnel during preparation, negotiations, and implementation stages
of the project. Also, mechanisms which would allow the strengthening of existing
capacity within the system should be introduced to sustain the planned development.
(d) The establishment, at the design stage, of a system to preserve institutional memory,
as well as detailed plans with defined roles and responsibilities for, and flow of funds
with respect to, each implementation agency, would assist in facilitating continuity of
activities despite personnel turnover.
(e) Enlarging the geographical area of the project with evidenced management problems
should be weighed against the political importance given these areas.
(f) Auditing responsibilities solely in the hands of the CGR, as initially required by the
Colombian Constitution, tend to be slow in completion, and subject to intra-agency
conflicts and political interference.
10. Proiject Relationship
10.01 The main strength of the Bank/Borrower relationship was the ability to examine
implementation difficulties and restructure. There has been continued interest in addressing the
weaknesses in the sector. Main interlocutors were MOH, FNH, DNP, and INS; and SENA in
a lesser extent because it was phased out in 1990. Even if the participation of ICBF is
mentioned in the SAR, they were never active in the project, and its participation was not
enforced by including it in the LA. After the Bank's reorganization of 1987, the continuity of
Bank staff during the supervision of the project counteracted the Borrower's lack of institutional
memory due to frequent turnover of govemment officials and Project Coordinators.
11. Consulting Services
11.01 National consultants played a significant role in the development of project activities,
during project preparation, conducting research, assisting in the implementation of the new



12
health law, and staffing the PMU. In the latter, they were involved in training and supervision
activities, management and accounting functions. While this contributed to completion of
activities, it did inhibit the development of institutional capacity, as the work was usually
realized without line personnel from the Ministry accompanying it. Removal of delays in
consultant contracting was attempted through utilization of the services of the United Nations
Development Programme and the Organization of Ibero-American States administrative services,
although these agreements were not without its own problems, i.e. excessive delays hampering
execution and payments.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The LA of August 21, 1985, and its amendment of September 1987; the memoranda on
cancellations of 1990 and 1991; and the SAR were adequate for purposes of project execution
and supervision. There is a lack of information about the execution of physical facilities and
monitoring indicators. A good deal of detailed information was lost in the Bank during the
reorganization of 1987, and in the country during frequent changes of Project Coordinators.
12.02 Progress reports were submitted, although, in the beginning years, they were not always
timely. This improved in the last three years of the project. In-country files and accounting
information were not always structured nor available for auditing purposes, and especially at the
regional and local levels, separate files for the project were often unavailable. Information on
the training activities found in Bank files and progress reports was limited in scope, making it
impossible to know either the total number of persons trained (when information was given in
numbers of events) or the impact or contribution that some of the individual scholarships would
have.
12.03 Part II of this PCR was developed by the PMU before the closing date (June 30, 1993),
taking into consideration MOH's decision to disband it, and the lack of institutional memory in
MOH to undertake this requirement. Part II was officially submitted by GOC to the Bank in
November 1993. In order to include in this report activities that were to take place during the
closing of the accounting (July 1 to October 31, 1993), Parts I and H1 of the PCR were prepared
by the Bank after the receipt of Part II. The final PCR was sent to GOC in April 1994 and its
comments were incorporated.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Introduction
It is a convention of the World Bank that the Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for
Bank-financed projects be prepared in three parts. The first part, drafted by the World Bank
itself and sent to the borrower six months before closing, sets out the basic parameters from
which the borrower may then prepare its part of the report. The Bank then initiates the third
and final stage, thus completing the report.



13
In the case of the Health Services Integration Project, this sequence of events has not
been followed. It was agreed with the Bank that Part II of the PCR, based on the Bank's official
Guidelines, would be delivered by the Project Coordination Unit by closing.
The content of this part, prepared by the Colombian Government, is based partly on an
analysis of existing project-related documentation and of the experience gained during the most
recent project coordination activities, but mainly on interviews with the ex-ministers and ex-
coordinators whose departments were responsible for management of the project.
Those interviews were backed up by a targeted survey designed to elicit information on
the following points:
(a)   Principal strengths and weaknesses in project design and development.
(b)   Role of government agencies in relation to the project (Ministry of Health, DNP,
Ministry of Finance).
(c)   Role of the Bank in project design and development.
(d)   Evaluation of relationship between the Bank and the Government.
(e)   Evaluation of the Project Coordination Unit.
(f)   Suggestions for future projects.
These core aspects are elaborated on below, not necessarily in the above order.
II.   Role of the Colombian Government in project design and development
1.    The project was badly designed. The objective was to establish an integrated health
services system. Since there were insufficient data from which to project the system's future,
half of the implementation time was taken up in adjustments, reassignments and reorientations,
involving inter alia changes in the key components of the National Health System.
2.    The program was disorganized and unfocused. Although this was a loan from the
World Bank, with the normal characteristics of that institution, the program was designed to
create 19 operational units with a view to achieving integration of the centralized national health
system. At project end, it was found that each new Minister of Health has seen fit to create
additional capacities, and that the number of operational units to be disbanded totaled 105.
Probably the regions needed those services, but the project objectives, target population and aims
suffered as a result.



14
There is no doubt that the Colombian entities that should have supervised the project,
such as the DNP, and the World Bank itself, were lax in their relationship with those agencies
that kept wanting to alter the project's strategies and objectives.
3.    The program was never institutionalized at the Ministry of Health. At the initiative
of the project designers, and in the absence of clear guidelines from the different Health
Ministers, the project implementation mechanism was left in the hands of an operating group
parallel to the Ministry, which led to mistrust, critical relationships and inconsistencies.
4.    The program was unable to extricate itself from the weaknesses of the Ministry of
Health. One of the most serious problems arising during project implementation was that of the
unnecessary and wasteful administrative formalities then plaguing the Ministry of Health,
involving lengthy and inconclusive bid proceedings, here again without regard to the linkages
between Government procedures and those of the World Bank. This was evident in the
negotiation of the bidding documents, a situation that was only solved by the streamlining of the
Ministry's administrative procedures in 1991/92.
5.    The annual plan of program activities was constantly being renegotiated. The annual
activities planning mechanism, intended to serve as a basis for the ongoing organization and
structuring of project implementation, turned out to be ineffectual, with the result that the
balances to be disbursed by the World Bank then had to be negotiated; the success or otherwise
of implementation depended on the capacities of the current Ministers of Health and Project
Coordinators, while effective reprogramming depended on their negotiating skills vis-a-vis the
World Bank. In general, the loan funds were seen as short-term resources and not as long-term
financing, as provided in the Loan Agreement.
6.    Unstable program management led to errors in project execution. Since the start of
project activities at the Ministry of Health there has been a total of 12 Ministers and 7 General
Program Coordinators. This rapid tumover led to changes in the project objectives and a
broadening of their scope, as well as an intensification of the administrative weaknesses noted
at different stages of the project. The dichotomy of having a program that was managed
autonomously and at the same time dependent on the administrative efficiency of each
administration led to instability and various incidents of inefficiency and ineffectiveness
throughout the entire project.
It seems essential to ensure that the Project Coordination Units have the necessary
autonomy and independence, and also that members of the Ministry staff be included in tasks
related to project implementation. To this end, they would be assigned to their respective area
of expertise, but no extra work would be involved. In addition, the Ministry's guidelines should
make clear provision for vigilance and monitoring.
7.    Lack of a monitoring and evaluation system. The program design did not make any
provision for the use of specific instruments, variables or indicators to be used in monitoring and
evaluating the project and assessing its benefits to the Government, in particular to the health



15
sector. Only in the last stage, when actions were focusing on Law 10 and its implementation,
were a few monitoring and evaluation instruments available, both for the various project
processes and for the expected results.
8.    The program led to the establishment of better and more extensive relations between the
central and regional government authorities. The fact of having established more flexible
transfers than those coming from the national budget, and of having access to technical
assistance provided by the project through private consultants to the executing agencies, led to
various changes, but without an objective system of application. One example of such changes
is that of the incorporation of continuing training plans for promoters into certain executing
agencies, using the approach offered by the project, while in other, perhaps the most significant,
cases steps were taken to incorporate the model and instruments designed by the project for the
health decentralization process.
9.    The program stimulated investment needs in the regions. As a result of the investments
carried out by the project in the areas of civil works and procurement of goods, a 1992 project
study revealed that over 40% of the municipalities receiving funding for construction from the
loan and local counterpart funds sometimes financed over 50% of the total cost of the works out
of their own resources. There is no doubt that in some cases this was politically motivated, but
in the end it helped to improve the health conditions of the local communities, and ensured that
the political and health authorities made an effort in sectors to which priority had not previously
been assigned.
10.   The program found a path more suited to the 1989 redefinition of its objectives.
During the tenure of Health Minister Eduardo Diaz Uribe, the large number of objectives was
trimmed down, and the focus placed on formulation of the new decentralized health system.
Under Law 10 of 1990, a certain 'organic and orderly structure' was achieved.
There is no doubt that this streamlining, and to some extent the more focused format,
resulted in greater consistency and cohesion in the area of technical and financial programming,
although this was rather a long way from the original project.
By maintaining the project's new focus and ensuring that all its actions were oriented
toward the strengthening of both conceptual and practical aspects and toward the technical
assistance provided by the project for the local government agencies, Minister Camilo Gonzalez
Posso also helped improve the project's efficiency and effectiveness.
The results of this process were unequivocal: the integration program - Loan 2611,
took the lead in health decentralization right from the time of formulation of the Law and its
regulations, particularly in the provision of technical assistance and advice to the local
government agencies, designed instruments for use by the departments and municipalities in the
decentralization process, supported the Ministers in the formulation and negotiation with
Congress of the pertinent legislation, designed the first monitoring and evaluation system for the
decentralization process, and established a relationship and dialogue with National Government



16
agencies in order to link the decentralization efforts of the municipalities and departments with
those that bodies such as the DNP and the Presidency of the Republic, among others, were
making vis-a-vis the same local agencies.
This revealed more clearly the need for the Ministry of Health to have a department in
charge of orienting and coordinating all actions related to the decentralization process.
11.   The National Government provided no assistance for the project. The above paragraphs
point clearly to the absence of monitoring, vigilance and ownership on the part of the Ministry
vis-a-vis the project. Except for the remarks on implementation provided by the Controller
General's office for 1991, there was no action on the part of national government agencies
related directly or indirectly to project implementation, in the area either of financial supervision
(Ministry of Finance) or of support for planning, supervision and control of the activities (DNP).
12.   From the financial standpoint the country did not need the loan. The loan required
US$36 million counterpart funding from the Colombian Government. Because the original
amount to be disbursed by the World Bank was trimmed on three occasions, the country
received only US$17.5 million from the Bank, while the original counterpart level was
maintained. In the end, the original US$72 million was reduced to only US$53 million, and of
that the country itself provided US$35.5 million.
LII.   World Bank's role
1.    The World Bank's role fluctuated between that of technical assistant and supervisor. The
Bank's failure to provide the ongoing technical assistance required for this type of project only
served to intensify the project's instabilities and weaknesses. At a given moment it appeared that
the Bank only stepped in when financial aspects were involved, for example when
implementation fell behind schedule.
2.    The levels of the Bank's demands fluctuated widely. The Bank was inconsistent in its
requests both for annual orderly and coherent plans of activities and for technical and financial
progress reports; and when the project made the effort to submit these, the Bank did not even
respond, giving the impression that it did not even read them. Where the hiring of consultants
(firms or individuals) was concerned, the Bank was also lax, in that it allowed the Ministry to
appoint and hire consultants without any attention to the profiles required for the project. This
was even more evident when the appointments were made by the Ministry's senior officers
(Minister, Vice-Minister, Secretary General).
The Bank was also lax in accepting changes to and additions of units without sufficient
justification, for example when it allowed agencies not to participate when they had actually been
assigned project implementation responsibilities in the legal agreements (e.g. ICBF, Sena, ISS).
Over the past two years, when there was a marked change in these aspects, the benefit
of maintaining a closer technical Bank/Govemment technical relationship became apparent.



17
Significant changes also took place in levels of implementation, in the quality of the actions
planned, in monitoring, in the rigorous performance and accomplishment of the actions planned,
and in the monitoring processes adopted.
3.    The Bank's system of project monitoring and control was not apparent. The existing
mission reports do not reflect the presence of a monitoring and control system designed to
properly correct or solve existing problems or reaffirm the project's positive aspects or
strengths.
m. [sic]     General recommendations for other projects
Based on the analysis submitted, regarding both the role of the Colombian Government
and that of the Bank vis-a-vis the project, there are certain recommendations that both parties
should consider right from the start of the project cycle. These are:
1.    The project design should be kept simple and uncomplicated. As a step in this direction,
the number of executing agencies should be minimized.
2.    At the project preparation stage, there should be a clear view of the political and
legislative circumstances that could affect or alter future project development, so that no project
is exposed to such risks.
3.    The projects should be somewhat more focused in their operation.
4.    Right from the design stage, a project should identify the system to be used to monitor
and evaluate both its development process and its impact.
5.    The operating framework for the projects should be provided by a Coordination Unit,
autonomously managed but fully institutionalized, without the need to create bodies parallel to
the ministries.
6.    A project should start out with some sort of formal event or launching, designed both to
provide the project staff with training in the respective procedures and to ensure that the World
Bank's procedures are compatible with those of the Colombian Government.
7.    A strategy needs to be sought to protect both the project objectives and goals and the
Coordination Units from the effects of changes at Minister level.
8.    The Colombian government agencies, such as DNP and the Ministry of Finance, need
to be assigned a clear technical assistance mandate for projects in their particular areas of
expertise; such technical assistance would not supplant the capacities of the [other] ministries,
but nor would it simply wait on the sidelines until pressed into service when problems have
escalated and become difficult to handle.



18
9.    The World Bank should play a more visible role in the area of technical assistance,
following a plan to be drawn up in liaison with the Government.
10.   The Bank should endeavor to systematize its monitoring and supervision procedures and
to ensure their constant application.
11.   The Bank should be more strict in requiring compliance with the rules governing the
various project procedures (hiring, competitive bidding, reports, disbursements, etc.).
12.   It would be helpful to standardize certain project-related requirements such as the format
for technical and financial reports, so that these can be as helpful as possible, and the format for
evaluating potential consultants and consultant performance.
13.   The Bank, supported by the Colombian Government, should promote an exchange of
experiences among Bank-financed projects in this country, initially within the same sector, in
this case the social sector, and subsequently including the other sectors concerned.



19
PART III: PROJECT PROFILE AT THE TIME OF COMPLETION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
l                 | ~~~~~~Year of|l
Loan Title   |        Purdose         | Approv |i         Status          c onnmenots
1487-CO           Support an Integrated        1977    Completed June    Adverse economic
Integrated Nutrition program of nutntuon,               1985               conditions, project
Improvement       health, nural water supply,                              complexity and lessening
sanitation, and technical                               support by a now
assistanco                                              government in 1982
hindered implementation.
However, a major indirect
outcome of the project
was its contribution to
general policy formulation
for health end nutrition
2961-CO   Water  Rehabilitation and            1988    Under               Loan provided health
Supply & Sewerage expansion of water supply,            Implementation     services and water supply
sewerage systems and                                    at the municipal level
solid waste services and                                through the AT-PAS
to improve sector                                       program (Technical
efficiency and provide                                  Assistance-Sectoral
sector-wide training                                    Adjustment Plan)
3201-CO           Expand ongoing home          1990    Under               Assessment of the
Community Child   child care prognm,                    Implementation     effectiveness of training
Development       systematic training and                                  and home upgrading is in
upgrading of homes of                                   process as port of the
child care providers,                                   annual review
improve the management
information system and
monitoring and evaluation
techniques
3615-CO           Strengthen public health     1993    Under               Loan will be effective
Municipal Health   system to provide curative           Implementation     shortly
Services          and preventative health
services through local
municipal sub-projects
Comments:
Health components were also included in two rural development projects (Ln. 1352-CO and Ln 2174-CO)
which introduced, consolidated or expanded primary health care in rural areas. These projects served as a
catalyst between the Ministry of Health and individual departments.in providing basic health services. The
projects also made a major contribution in expanding infrastructure in rural areas and those with limited
services.



20
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM            DATE PLANNED   |   DATE REVISED              ACTUAL DATE
Identification                                                          Oct 83
Initial Project Brief                                                   Nov 83
Preparation              Nov 83 - Jan 84                            Nov 83 - Jan 84
Pre-Aopraisal               Apr. 84                                     Apr 84
Appraisal Mission           June 84               Aug-84             June - July 84
Post Appraisal                                                          Oct 84
Negotiations                Dec. 84               Feb. 85               May 85
Board Approval               Feb. 85              Apr. 85               Julv 85
Signature                   Aug. 85                                     Aug 85
Effectiveness               Nov. 85                                     Nov 85
Project Completion          June 91               June 92               June 93
Closing Date                June 92               June 93               June 93
Comment:
Based on progress made during project preparation and in agreement with the Government to
reduce the number of components (including the scope of the water supply component) and size
lof geographic area, conditions were favorable for appraisal by the originally planned date.
However, a post-appraisal mission was necessary to explore ways to further simplify the project
due to the limited capacity of the Ministry of Health and fiscal constraints within the country.
In order to complete all draft agreements between the Ministry of Health and other agencies and
to resolve problems in setting up a Special Account under existing Colombian laws, negotiations
were delayed five months.



21
Table 3A: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DIS8URSEMENTS
(US$ MILLIONI
FY8el    FY87      FY98      FY89     FY90      FY91     FY921    FY93       FY94
'APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                    2.0      5.3      10.4      17,5     25.7      32.7      36.5
FORMALLY REVISED 5/90                 2.1      2.1       5.9       8.1      9.4      13.5      17.6     17.6      17.6
ACTUAL                                2.1       5.9      5.9       8.1     10.3      13.5      14.2      16.6     17.0
ACTUAL AS % OF FORMAL REV.        100.0%    287.3%    100.0%    100.0%   110.3%    100.0%    80.7%     94.4%    96.6%
DATE OF FINAL DISBURSEMENT AND 8ALANCE OF US$601,015.58 CANCELLED 09J16193
Table 38: Disbursements
Planned. Revised. Actual
tIN Uss mILLIONa)
40
10    <    _    5, -    -      II-  -   
1986    1987       1988    1989    1900         1991     1992    1993       1994
-     APPRA1SAL EST.    -   FORMAL REV. (8/90h '  REVISED (2/91)
-     REV18ED (2/92)         ACTUAL
Date  are Bank Fisoal Yera



22
Tab6. 4: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
SECTION                 OfGNAL             REVUED           DESCRIPTION
NO    STATUS           DATE               DATE            OF COVENANT              COMMENfTS
3.01    OK          1131/87            1/31/89     Evaluaion of the piogroeo Comploted
8/31/88           3/31/8S      med. in the ex.outoion of
12131/89     the project.
4.01    OC      by Jurw 30 each                    Audit of the Spia And  awating final audit for
year                        the Proj"et Accounts    poriod ending DOoo. r
31, 1992 through penod
of final disbursents
(October 31, 19931



23
TABLE 5A: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
QRlGINAL           REVISED   -      -      ACTUAL
CATEGOty                         AttOCATON (V -)    ALL                   DISBUR8EMENTS LUSO1
1 - A  WORKS OTHER THAN PART 8              56200,000.00         7,200,000.00             3,360,391.04
1 . B  WORKS PART B (I)                     3,500.000.00         2,000,000.00             1.233,125.81
2 - A  GOODS OTHER THAN PART B(I (t11)      4,900,000.00         e,soo,000.00             4,553,010.73
2 - B  GOODS PART E0(11()                   4,700,000.00         2,700,000.00                al,065.09
3 - A  CONS. SERVICES PART D                4,000,000.00         4,400,000.00             3,361,031.96
3 - B  CONS. SERVICES PART B                2,400,000.00         1.200,000.00               499,843.78
4    TRAINING                               6,000,000.00         6,000,000.00             2,76,1B1 5.39
6    SALARY, OPER EXP. PART D(v)            1.900,000.00         1.800,000.00             1,054,356.00
UNALLOCATED                           4,000,000.00         4,300,000.00                    0.00
REIMBURSEMENT TO SPEC ACCT                                                             54,503.63
CANCELLATION                                                                        19,554.556.a8
TOTAL                   3e.500,000.00        300Soo 000.00            36,500.000.00
TABLE SB: PROJECT FINANCING
ORIGINAL--                            ; REVISED
ORGANIZATION                ALIOCATION '*,   j~', -]:4',                   ,_,
-~    US$Mflins) ..-''Mons')'-7
WORLD BANK                                    36.5             48                    17.5            33
GOC                                           20.2             27                   35.5             67
SUPPLIER CREDITS                               9.0             12                     n.a
ISS                                            5.1              7                     n.a
USER FEES                                      5.0              6                     n.a
TOTAL                                         75.8            100                     53            100
n.a = Not Available



24
TABLE 6A: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
STAGE OF                   PLANNED        REVISED        ACTUAL
PROJECT CYCLE                     ------ - S.W ----------
PREPARATION                                                                   47.4
APPRAISAL                                                                     91.9
NEGOTIATIONS TO APPROVAL                                                       2.9
SUPERVISION THROUGH FY88                                                      56.2
SUPERVISION FY89 TO PRESENT                     59.0           69.9           82.9
TOTAL                           59.0           69.9          281.3
Comment:s:
Planned time prior to FY88 is not available due to IBRD reorganization. During appraisal and
post-appraisal, substantial work was spent on reconciling issues of project scope, including
the rural water supply component, national laboratory network, technical assistance,
institution building, appointment of project management team and draft bidding and legal
documents. Therefore, time spent from invitation to negotiate through Board Approval was
minimal. Increase in Actual supervision time was due to the extension of the closing date
by one year.



25
TABLE 6B: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
MISSIONS
STAGE OF              MONTH]   NO. OF            DAYS IN   SPECIAIJZATION        PFFOFRMANCE
|PROJECT CYCLE         YEAR      PERSONS          FIELD    FESENTE  .             STATUS&
IDENTIFICATION         10/83          3             29     PHN, OA, C
2     PREPARATION            1/84           5             49     PHN(2), C(3)
3     PREPARATION            3-4/84         7             93     PHN(3), C, OA, MA, E
4.    APPRAISAL              6-7/84         7             92     PHN, L, C, A, OA, E, SE
5.    POST APPRAISAL         10/84          e             69     PHN, A, OA, E, C, SE
6.    PRE-NEGOTIATIONS       3/85           1              7     PHN
TOTAL LENDING                                     339
TYPES5 OF
IF M I S /L     PqOSIde
1     SUPERVISION            11/85          4            40      PHN(2), OA, SE         1 2  1 1        SC
2.    SUPERVISION            2-3/86         1              8     PHN                    1 2  1 2        M
3     SUPERVISION            5186           1              1    SE                      NOT RATED       CF
4     SUPERVISION            6/88           2             22     PHN, OA                3 3  1 2        CF, M
5.    SUPERVISION            10/86          1              4     FA                     NOT RATED
6.    SUPERVISION            11/86          4             48     PHN, OA. C(2)         2 2 1 2          CF
7     SUPERVISION            6/87           4             44     PHN(2), OA, C         2 2  1 2
8.    SUPERVISION            9/87           2             12     PHN(2)                 2 3  1 3        M, SC
9     SUPERVISION            1/88           4             40     OA, E(2), PHN          2 2  1 2        AR, CF, P
10.   SUPERVISION            10/88          3             21     OA, PHN(2)            2 3 1 2          C, M., SC
11.   SUPERVISION            2/89           1              3     FA                    NOT RATED        AR
12.   SUPERVISION            7/89           2             12     OA, PHN               3  1 3 3 3   M, RD
13.   SUPERVISION dl         2/90           4              8     E, OA, PHN, PS         NOT RATED       M, P, SC
14.   SUPERVISION            5190           1              4     PHN                    3 1 2 2 3   AR
15.   SUPERVISION            2/91           2              6     OA, PHN               3  1 3 2 3   AR, M, P
1 .   SUPERVISION d/        4/91            2              4     OA, PHN               3 1 3 2 3
17.   SUPERVISION d/         10/91          2              4     OA, PHN               2  1 1 2 2   AR
18.   SUPERVISION            1/92           1              3     OA                    2 1 1 2 2   AR
19.   SUPERVISION d/         10/92          1              2     OA                    2 1 1 2 2
0.   SUPERVISION d/         4/93           1              1    OA                      2 1 1 2 2
TOTAL SPN                                         287
a ARCHITECT, C = CONSULTANT, E = ECONOMIST, FA = FINANCIAL ANALYST, L = LOAN OFFICER, MA - MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST, OA = OPERATIONS ASSISTANT, PHN = POPULUHLTH/NUTRIT SPECIALIST, PS = PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST, SE =
SANITARY ENGINEER
bl F = AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS; M = PROJECT MANAGEMENT; I  DEVELOPMENT IMPACT; S = OVERALL STATUS,
L = LEGAL COVENANTS COMPLIANCE
AR = AUDIT REPORTS, C = LACK OF GOVT. COMMITMENT, CF = COUNTERPART FUNDS, M - MANAGEMENT WEAKNESS, P =
PROCUREMENT, SC = STAFF CHANGES, RD - REPROGRAMMING DELAYS
d! COLOMBIA MISSION VISITED HEADQUARTERS. SPN REPORT AND FORM 590 WAS PREPARED



26
Table 7:   PROJECT HEALTH CARE INSTlTUTIONS BY CATEGORY
New Construction             |         Remodeling and Upgrading
Appraised    Amended   Actual    %         Appraised    Amended    Actual
(1)         (2)        (3)    (3/2)        (4)         (5)         (6)      (6/5)
Regional             -            1         1       100         8          l9a/        15al      79
Hospitals
Local                3           5          3       60         29           60         34        57
Hospitals
Health              7            15         14      93         27           65         36        55
Centers
Health Posts        53           89        77       87         53           124        55        44
Maintenance                                                    19
Workshops
Total          63           110        95       86        136          268         140       53
a/ Maintenance workshops are included



Table 8: CIVIL WORKS BY CATEGORY AND REGIONS
--------------- NEW  CONSTRUCTION                                                                    REMODELING  AND  UPGRADING --
R.H.                L.H,                 H.C.                H.P.                 R.H.                L.H.                H.C.                 H.P.
Departrments    Appraisal  Actual  Apprsal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual                      Actual  Appralial  Actual  Apprasal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual
Antloqula                -        -          3        3          4         2         13       13          1         1        13         7          8         3         8         1
Amazonas                 -        -                                                                       1         1                              6         3          1        1
Bolivar                                      -         -                              2        2          1        0           1        1                              2         0
Boyaca                                                                                          -         1        0           1        1                    -         5         1
Caldaa                                 -                        1         1                              1        1          1         1          2        1          2         1
Caqueta                  -        -                                                   5        3          2        2           1        1          3         3          1        1
auG                     -                                       1        2          7        11                              3        0           9        5          4        4
Cear                                                            I                    -        -                    -         1        0                               5        3
Cordova                  -        -                              S         4         17       17          2        2           8        4          7         1        17         2
hundhnamar              -                                                                                 -1                          0           1        0          3        2
hoco                                                                     3          7         7                              5         3          8        2         25       10
Guaviare                1         1                              1         1          1        1                                                   2        2           1        0
Hua                           -         -                        1         0          4        3          2        2           3        1          4        3          9         a
Meta                               -                   -                              1        1          1        0           1        1           -
Narino                   -        -                                                   5        3           -                                       8        8          5         2
Nte. Santa               -        -                                                   2        0                              fl        S          1         1          3        1
Putumayo                                               -                              8        5                    -         3         2          3        2          5         5
Santander                -        -                                                   7        5          1         1         5         2          2        0          13        5     1
Sucre                                                                      -          2        2          1        0           2        1          2         1
ToNma                         -              -                   1         1          3        2           -        -          2        1          1        0
VaNe                     -        -                                                   5        2          5        5           3        3          1         1         15        H
Total              1         1       5 */        3         15       14         89        77         19       15         80       34          85       38        124       55
RH - RegIonal HospItals; LH   Local Hospitals; HC - Health Centers HP- Health Posts
Appraisal Includes armendments
I added by amendment in Selptember 10, 1987
*/ Two Local HospItals were added durIng the amendment of September 1987. but were not Indicated In the list of locations provided with Government's request.






29
Annex 1
COLOMB3A
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
(Loan 2611-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE CONTRIBUTING AND/OR INTERVIEWED
The World Bank
Xavier Coll, LA4HR
Carol Collado, Consultant LA3HR
Rene Corradine, Architect, Consultant, LA3HR
Donna Criddle, LA3HR
Willy de Geyndt, ASTHR
Robert Drysdale, SASVP
Patricia Kleysteuber, EC2HR
Maria Victoria Lister, LA3HR
Felipe Saez, LA3TF
Eleanor Schreiber, LA3HR
Walter Stottman, EMTN
Jacques van der Gaag, LA3HR
The Government of Colombia
Gustavo Castillo Cifuentes, Architect, Planning Unit, Cauca
Eduardo de la Hoz, Architect, Cordoba
Gabriel de Leon Carrillo, Director, Hospital of Lorica
Jost Vicente Casas, Secretary General, MOH
Gustavo de Roux, Former Minister of Health
Eduardo Diaz Uribe, Former Minister of Health, Former Director, FNH
Lauro Galvan Garcia, Administrator, Cordoba
Jairo Garcia, Architect, Consultant, FNH
Marta Laverde de Oijuela, Former Project Coordinator
Juan Luis Londono, Minister of Health, Former Deputy Chief, DNP
Luis Felipe Lopez Duran, Financial Coordinator, Cordoba
Femando Mendez Diaz, Subdirector, FNH
Marina Montana Blanco, Chief Administrator, Hospital, Santander
Nelcy Paredes, Assistant to the Minister of Health, Former Chief, Health Sector, DNP
German Perdomo, Former Secretary General of the MOH



30
Martha Eugenia Prada Lopez, Accountant, Hospital, Santander
Luz Alba Puentes, Project Financial Coordinator
Fernando Quintero Cuellar, Director, Hospital, Tulua
Luis Hernando Ramirez, Director, Hospital, Roldanillo
Oscar Rojas, Former Vice-Minister of Health
Gilma Esperanza Vera, Santander
John Villota, Administrator, DNP



